Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12674 BUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 23, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bulqarian Leva
Value of USS1.00 in Leva
1989                      0.84
1990                      2.19
1991                     18.20
1992                     23.30
1993                     29.00
1994 (April)             56.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         -      Agricultural Development Project
BAC         -      Bank for Agricultural Credit
BCC         -      Banking Consolidation Company
BFTB        -      Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank
BNB         -      Bulgarian National Bank
BPB         -      Bulgarian Post Bank
CCB         -      Central Cooperative Bank
CEO         -      Chief Executive Officer
CIS         -      Confederation of Independent States
CMEA        -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR        -      Debt and Debt Service Reduction Project
DCB         -      Dobrudja Commercial Bank
D/E         -      Debt/Equity Ratio
EU          -      European Union
ED          -      Executive Director
FESAL       -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FPB         -      First Private Bank
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
GOB         -      Government of Bulgaria
IBI         -      International Banking Institute
IBID        -      International Bank for Investments and Development
KHF         -      Know-How Fund
LIB         -      Limited International Bidding
MOA         -      Ministry of Agriculture
OECD        -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCs         -      Personal Computers
PIEF        -      Private Investment and Export Finance Project
PFI         -      Participating Financial Intermediary
SAL         -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE         -      State-Owned Enterprises
SSB         -      State Savings Bank
TA          -      Technical Assistance
TSB         -      Tourist Sport Bank
USAID       -      United States Agency for International Development
USDA        -      United States Department of Agriculture
BULGARIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table ofContents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  i
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
A. Economic Outlook ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
B. Agriculture in the Bulgarian Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C. The Unfinished Reform Agenda in Agriculture  . . . . . . . . . .    6
D. The Banking Sector                           .9
III. PROJECT RATIONALE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
A. Bank's Country Assistance Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .13
IV. THE PROJECT ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
A. Objectives and Scope ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   14
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   16
C. The Credit Component ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
D. Institutional Development of Participating Financial
Intermediaries  ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
E. Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
V.  THE   LOAN  .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  23
A. Terms and Conditions .23
B.  Loan Administration ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....  .         .  .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   29
A. Benefits ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   29
B. Risks  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   29
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...  .         .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   30
This report was prepared by Messrs. Herman (Task Manager), Duster
(EC1AE), Pohlmeier (EC2AW), Zhotev (EClBU), Barrios and Filipsz (Consultants)
following an appraisal mission in November 1993, and under the supervision of
Mr. Goering (Division Chief, EC1AE) and Mr. Wiehen (Director, EC1). Peer
reviewers were Mr. Wilton (EClBU) and Mrs. Brooks (AGRAP).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
List of Annexes
Annex 1 Documents Available in the Project Files
Annex 2 Lending to Farmer's Organizations and Cooperatives
Annex 3 Institutional Development of Participating Financial
Intermediaries
Annex 4 Project Implementation and Supervision Arrangements
MAP      IBRD 25962



- i -
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Bulgaria (GOB)
Beneficiaries:           Private farmers, farmers' associations, agribusiness,
participating financial intermediaries
Amount:                  US$50.00 million equivalent
Terms:                   Seventeen years, including a four-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and
repayment schedule.
On-lending Terms:        GOB would on-lend the proceeds from the Bank's
currency pool loan through the Bulgarian National Bank
(BNB) to the Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs) in fixed-rate loans in two of the major
currencies of the Bank's currency pool: US dollars or
Deutsche marks. On-lending rates would be based on
the prevailing yield of the 10-year benchmark US
Treasury note (for US dollar loans) and the 10-year
benchmark German government bond (for Deutsche marks
loans) plus a market-based spread. The PFIs would re-
lend the proceeds to sub-borrowers with market-based
spread to be determined by each PFI. Private
enterprises and individuals would borrow for a minimum
of three years and a maximum of twelve years,
including a maximum grace period of two years. They
would bear the foreign exchange risk. The PFIs would
bear the full credit risks of their sub-loans. GOB
would bear the credit risk of the PFIs, and the cross
currency risk between the US dollar or the Deutsche
mark and the Bank's currency pool as well as the
interest rate risk. Lending would be on a first-come-
first-served basis. For the provision of equipment to
the PFIs under the technical assistance component, GOB
would on-lend the funds to the PFIs in US dollars at
its cost of funds for ten years, including a three-
year grace period.
Project Description:    The proposed project would finance imports of
machinery and equipment and associated permanent
working capital, by medium- and long-term sub-loans to
the private sector. Primary production,
agroindustries, rural transport and trade, handicrafts
and other rural-oriented economic activities would be
eligible for financing. Technical assistance to the
PFIs would focus on developing expertise of PFIs in
appraisal and supervision of sub-projects.
Poverty Category:        Not applicable



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:      The proposed project would improve access of the
private sector to medium- and long-term credit in
foreign exchange, which has been severely limited by
the debt moratorium. The project would support
private sector agricultural production, processing and
services. It would strengthen financial institutions
necessary for sustained development of the sector and
foster the establishment of new agribusinesses in a
more competitive environment, with benefits to both
producers and consumers.
The main project risks include: (i) inadequate
capability of PFIs in sub-loan preparation and
appraisal; (ii) inability of sub-borrowers to repay
loans fully and on time because of: e.g., poorly-
prepared and supervised sub-projects, adverse price
developments, lack of credit discipline, etc. These
risks will be addressed by: (i) extensive TA to the
PFIs; (ii) close supervision by the Bank; and (iii)
monitoring of PFIs by BNB. The risks associated with
macroeconomic and political instability are present,
and could translate into project risks through
volatility in foreign exchange and interest rates for
the PFIs. Through the proposed FESAL and in
coordination with the IMF, the Bank will continue to
have an active macroeconomic policy dialogue with GOB.
Estimated Costs:                                (US$ Million)
Local       Foreign         Total
Credit Component                     11.8           47.0           58.8
Institutional Development             1.0            3.6            4.6
TOTAL                          12.8          50.6           63.4
Financing Plan:                                 (US$million)
Local       Foreign         Total
IBRD                                  0.0           50.0           50.0
Foreign Donors                        0.0            0.6            0.6
Private Investors                    11.8            0.0           11.8
PFIs                                  1.0            0.0            1.0
TOTAL                          12.8          50.6           63.4
Estimated Disbursements:            __USS Million)
FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98
Annual                               7.0      20.0      20.0        3.0
Cumulative                           7.0      27.0      47.0       50.0



BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       Since the economic reform program was initiated in February 1991, a
major objective of the Government of Bulgaria (GOB) has been to create a market-
oriented agriculture based on private ownership of land and privatized input
supply, processing and marketing sectors. This objective is consistent with the
broad goals of a reform aimed at reallocating resources in line with comparative
advantage and the development of an internationally competitive economy.
1.02       The economic reform program introduced stabilization and structural
adjustment policies designed to reverse economic decline and to transform the
economy from centrally-planned to market-oriented.   Restrictive monetary and
fiscal policies, including sharply higher interest rates, were adopted and
combined with a tight income policy. A unified, market-based floating exchange
rate was adopted. Important structural and institutional reforms were initiated,
viz.: (i) broad price and trade liberalization, including currency convertibility
for commercial foreign trade transactions; (ii) private sector development,
including commercial code regulations, banking sector reform, and restitution of
agricultural land and commercial properties; (iii) restructuring of state
enterprises and GOB agencies; and (iv) establishment of a social safety net.
Preliminary agreements with foreign official and commercial creditors were
reached in 1993 on the restructuring of foreign debt and should help Bulgaria to
gradually regain access to international capital markets.
1.03        Delays in policies promoting structural adjustment threaten to
undermine macroeconomic stability and prospects for economic growth. The budget
deficit reached 9% of GDP and inflation remained at about 70% in 1993. There has
been substantial progress in restitution of small businesses, urban property and
agricultural land. However, delays in privatization and banking reform, and the
adverse impact of the embargo against the former Yugoslavia have increased
pressure on the budget and the balance of payments.  The financial losses of
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) continue to grow rapidly, and only a few SOEs have
been privatized. During 1993, the economy declined by about 3% and unemployment
increased to about 15.5% by year's end.
1.04       Agricultural GDP is estimated to have declined by about 3% in 1993
partly due to the uncertainties of ongoing decollectivization and land reform
and partly due to a severe drought.  This follows a decline of 7.7% in 1992.
However, the private sector has performed much better than expected by official
forecasts and its share in agricultural production increased to more than 50% by
1993. The availability of food on the domestic market has improved considerably
and there are no shortages. Agricultural exports increased by 30% to about $1.2
billion in 1992.
1.05         Agriculture and agroindustries employ about 16% of the labor force,
contribute 20% of GDP and account for 22% of exports. At the farm level, there
is growing realization that harsh economic realities are likely to continue and
that it is necessary to adjust to new market conditions. Many adjustments have



- 2 -
already been made to make agriculture more efficient and competitive: (i) farm
employment has been reduced; (ii) consumption of inputs has declined to more
efficient levels and farm inventories were reduced; (iii) livestock numbers
declined, adjusting to market demand; and (iv) new private agricultural
enterprises are being established (e.g., large family farms, cooperatives based
on clear private ownership of land and other assets, commercial farms, service
organizations).
1.06       The Bank's lending strategy in agriculture evolves from the Bank's
country assistance strategy, which is designed to support the GOB's reform
program. An important priority is to help mobilize medium- and long-term credit
for private investment. Access by the private sector to medium- and long-term
credit is limited and costly, preventing the financing of otherwise viable
projects.   Limited access to international financial markets has reduced the
availability of foreign exchange credits. This situation is likely to persist
even after recent agreements on foreign debt, since it will take time to
reestablish Bulgaria's creditworthiness.
1.07       The proposed project would provide some of the medium- and long-term
funds at sectoral level to facilitate the development of private agriculture.
To this point, the ADP would be the only major external source of capital funding
for the agricultural sector. Bank involvement is expected to trigger additional
financial resources for these purposes from local and external sources. While
some of the technical assistance (TA) is expected to be funded through grants
from foreign donors, the Bank could also finance essential TA not otherwise
funded under the Technical Assistance Loan (para. 3.03).
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Economic Outlook
2.01       Background on the Bulgarian economy, past economic performance, recent
economic trends and the GOB's stabilization and adjustment efforts, as well as
social indicators, are described in a Bank report: "Bulgaria - An Economic
Update" (May 1994).
B. Agriculture in the Bulgarian Economy
2.02       Climate and Land.  Bulgaria is well endowed with natural resources
for agriculture and has some of the potentially most productive lands in Eastern
Europe. Of its 11.1 million ha, 6.2 million ha are used in agriculture. Most
cultivable land is located along the Danube River, in the valley of the Maritsa
River and along the Black Sea coast. The climate ranges from Continental along
the Danube, to more Mediterranean towards the Greek border and along the Black
Sea coast. Annual rainfall ranges from 400mm to 700mm. More than two-thirds of
the 4.7 million ha of cultivated area have fertile soil; of this, 28% is equipped
for irrigation, but less than 20% is actually irrigated, partly due to the high
cost of irrigation which is no longer subsidized, partly due to lack of operation
and maintenance.



2.03       Chances  in Farm  Structures.    Until  recently,  collective  farms
dominated farm production. Farm workers were allowed to keep 0.5 ha plots for
their own use. In 1987, GOB decided to decentralize production partially and
give  farm  managers  greater  decision-making  responsibility.           However,
decentralization turned into disintegration of the collective farm system in
1990. The farm business structure and production patterns are undergoing major
changes in the ongoing process of decollectivization and land restitution. If
all 1.7 million land restitution applicants receive land, the average applicant
will receive about 3.3 ha.  In May 1992, GOB decided to liquidate collective
farms to expedite the reestablishment of individual ownership rights and settle
claims for all non-land and financial assets. This process is nearing completion
and new farm organizations are emerging. About 1,000 smaller cooperatives were
established, farming 547,000 ha. Frequently, there are two or three cooperatives
or partnerships per village, each farming about 500 ha.   The evolving farm
business structure and its potential to absorb term credit is described in Annex
2. A growing number of individuals are leasing land for large-scale commercial
farming and a number of diverse non-farm activities formerly carried out by
collective farms (e.g., equipment repair) have been privatized.
2.04       Labor and Capital.  Since 1991, employment in agriculture declined
by 31% to about 276,000 full-time farm workers, mainly due to the liquidation of
collective farms. Some 200,000 village pensioners and 100,000 part-time seasonal
workers also derive part of their livelihood from agriculture. The average age
of the working population in rural areas is above 50 years. In 1993, the average
monthly earning in agriculture was about Leva 4,210 compared to Leva 6,100 in
manufacturing and Leva 6,320 in construction.   About 50% of those active in
agriculture are wage laborers.
2.05        Primary agriculture has been heavily decapitalized in recent years.
Gross public sector capital investment in agriculture has been declining for the
last 10 years from Leva 890 million in 1980 to about Leva 720 million in 1988 and
Leva 640 million in 1992 (in current prices). The share of agriculture in total
gross public investment declined from 12% in 1980 to about 5% in 1988. An even
more severe contraction of gross investment followed the collapse of the central
planning system. Most farm buildings are massive old structures of inefficient
design in urgent need of repair or replacement; some are abandoned. Equipment
is mainly Soviet-made, designed for large-scale operations and, although
inexpensive to buy, expensive to operate. Similar Western equipment costs 40%
to 60% less on a life-cycle cost basis.
2.06       Crop and Livestock Production. Crop production is dominated by grains
and pulses, which account for about 36%; fodder, 15%; industrial crops and
tobacco, 7%; vegetables, 3%; and perennials, 5% of the area cultivated. Crop
yields have been declining for the last ten years. On average, wheat yields are
about 3.9 t/ha; maize, 3.4 t/ha; and soya beans, 0.7 t/ha. Livestock has been
particularly important to collective farms, since it provides a steady stream of
cash income compared to crops. However, livestock production - particularly milk
and beef - is in serious crisis, since this was a heavily subsidized sub-sector.
Some large-scale industrial-type pig and poultry operations are owned and
operated by GOB and, typically, are quite inefficient. Through the 1980s, cattle
numbers declined by about 10% and sheep by 25%, while pigs increased by 15%.



- 4 -
Although the decline accelerated with the collapse of the collective farms,
livestock numbers have begun to stabilize. Major improvements in efficiency and
changes in the production pattern are expected, following decollectivization and
transformation to private agriculture.
2.07       The private sector in agriculture was largely ignored by official
statistics until 1990. However, most vegetables and fruit, for which Bulgaria
was well known, were grown privately on the 0.5 ha plots given to collective
farmers, who often diverted services and inputs from collective production to
these plots. This production, which became indispensable in meeting Bulgaria's
food supply requirements, typically accounted for about 80% of table grapes, 50%
of peppers and potatoes, and 40% of tomatoes and tobacco. The private sector also
supplied about 45% of the meat, 25% of the milk, 50% of the eggs, and a number
of other high-value-added products.   Conservatively estimated, the share of
agricultural production by the private sector increased from about 29% in 1989
to about 50% in 1992.
2.08       GOB Farm Suport Programs.  Since 1991, many farm support programs
have been eliminated or substantially reduced. The following support policies
were operational in 1993: (i) agriculture is exempt from profit taxes; (ii)
individual farmers are exempt from income taxes on income from agricultural
activities; (iii) GOB assumed repayment obligations to commercial banks on Leva
2 billion of bad debts of collective farms in liquidation incurred in 1992; (iv)
a farm credit subsidy program of Leva 1 billion; (v) support to mountainous and
semi-mountainous regions of Leva 463 million; (vi) support to the state grain
agencies of Leva 127 million to pay for bread wheat purchases; (vii) a budget
allocation of Leva 1.2 billion for land surveys and reallocation plans under the
land  reform  program.    However,  because  of  administrative  and/or  budget
difficulties, some of the programs are underfunded.  There were no producer price
supports in effect during 1992 and the first half of 1993. On the contrary, GOB
price policies tended to depress producer prices (paras. 2.12-2.14).
2.09       Research. education and extension systems.  Most research has been
concentrated in the Academy of Agricultural Sciences (AAS), which expanded over
time into an organization of about 6,500 permanent staff in 38 research
institutes and 44 experiment stations. About 2,000 employees have left AAS since
1991. A recent PHARE-sponsored review identified the following major problems:
(i) resources barely cover salaries and are spread too thinly over an excessive
number of centers, staff and projects; (ii) little real innovative research is
in progress; (iii) research and development efforts suffer from considerable
duplication and are not responsive to emerging needs; and (iv) technology and
equipment is outdated. The review concluded that a major redeployment of about
Leva 160 million, received annually from the state budget, is required to sustain
essential research and extension activities.
2.10       AQroindustries. The food-processing industry is comprised of several
hundred SOEs employing about  144,000 full-time workers.   The Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for about 480 SOEs and the Ministry of Industry
for about 550 agroprocessing SOEs.   Since 1990, most monopolistic trade and
processing organizations have been broken up into limited liability companies and
partially restructured.   The industry is hampered by severe structural and



- 5 -
economic problems and the lack of management skills and resources needed for
modernization. Sector-wide problems include: (i) high and rising debt; (ii)
decline in capacity utilization resulting in higher unit cost; (iii) absence of
effective cost accounting systems; (iv) unreliable sources of raw materials; (v)
confiscatory corporate tax rates; (vi) large unsold inventories; and (vii) cost-
plus pricing. Financial losses continue to grow rapidly and only a few SOEs have
been privatized or liquidated. About 36,000 employees have left the industry
since 1991.
2.11       A growing number of private agribusiness companies are taking over
activities of the former collective farms (e.g., equipment repair, construction,
manufacturing,   hotels,  restaurants,  bakeries,   food  processing,   etc.).
Agroindustrial SOEs are being bypassed by small-scale private plants, including
about 200 dairies accounting for 20% of market share, a large number of bakeries
accounting for 50% of market share, several feedmills and slaughterhouses.
Marketing cooperatives are reemerging to continue a long and successful tradition
of voluntary association (Annex 2).
2.12       Prices  and  Trade.    Since  1990,  agricultural  price  and  trade
regulations have changed frequently and the process of liberalization has been
reversed in some cases.  Input and output prices continue to adjust to world
market levels. Remaining differences between domestic and world market prices
are small and relate more to adjustments in the foreign trade pattern and
underdeveloped domestic markets than to GOB trade restrictions.
2.13       The current most important agricultural trade restriction is the
recently-reimposed ban on exports of major grains. Grains are not particularly
important as an export commodity, but play key roles in the domestic economy.
Bulgaria ran a grain surplus in 1992, exporting about 600,000 tons. The export
price of wheat averaged about US$100 per ton which is broadly equivalent to world
market prices after adjustments for quality differentials.   However, export
restrictions were reimposed, motivated mainly by a desire to protect consumers
and to assure feed supplies to state-owned livestock operations. Within the last
18 months, GOB has completed a full circle from an export ban on wheat to a quota
to an export tax of 12% in September 1992, an increase in the export tax to 25%
in January 1993, reintroduction of the wheat export ban in March 1993, and an
extension of the export ban to most grains in May 1993. Since liberalization
started, the GOB support price of wheat increased from Leva 260 (US$11.8) per ton
until January 199121,to Leva 1,100 (US$50) in September 1991, Leva 1,500 (US$68)
in September 1992 and Leva 1,850 (US$74) in July 1993. However, wheat has been
selling consistently well above the official support price, rendering it
ineffective. For example, wheat from the 1993 harvest sells at above Leva 2,300
(US$87) on the domestic market.
One reason for these extremely depressed prices was the official exchange rate which was devalued by a
factor of 10 after the collapse of the central pLanning system.



- 6 -
2.14       Retail food prices have been restrained to ensure that essential foods
remain affordable to the urban population. A system of "projected" prices for
14 essential food items and other restrictions, covering about 30% of total
consumer expenditures and 40% of gross agricultural output, was introduced in
1991. Maximum profit margins for food processing companies were introduced to
support this system.  The list was reduced to seven items in 1992.  However,
regular statistical surveys of retail food prices suggest that the system has
limited effect, and prices of the seven food items depend largely on local market
circumstances.
2.15       Agricultural exports increased by 30% in 1992 from 1991 levels to
about $1.2 billion, or about 26% of all Bulgarian exports, but grew less rapidly
in 1993. The most important agricultural export items are tobacco and tobacco
products (50%), wine and beverages (10%), grains (7%), canned fruits and
vegetables (6%), milk and dairy products (5%). The main market for agricultural
exports is still the former Soviet Union and Bulgaria's immediate neighbors.
Exports of high value horticultural specialties and processed food products,
mainly to the EU and the Middle East, while small, are developing rapidly and
offer substantial growth prospects if market access can be assured. In March
1993, GOB signed an association agreement with the European Union (EU and
initialled an agreement with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), both of
which should help expand Bulgaria's exports of agricultural products over the
medium term.
2.16       Bulgaria depends heavily on imports of farm inputs and equipment.
Domestic industries for farm inputs are limited to the production of nitrogenous
fertilizers, manufacture of some farm implements and one tractor assembly plant.
Imported farm inputs include phosphate and potassium fertilizers, herbicides and
most pesticides, hybrid seed, feed concentrates, minerals, veterinary medicine,
protein feed and about 95% of farm machinery.  Until 1990, such imports from
Western markets cost about US$400 million annually. The domestic tractor and
other farm machinery plants are especially poorly equipped to produce the type
of machinery required by the emerging small-scale agricultural production
systems.
C. The Unfinished Reform Aaenda in Agriculture
2.17       Further  progress  in  four  key  strategic  areas  is  needed  to
substantially complete the reform agenda in agriculture: (i) establishment of
private property rights in agriculture and agribusiness; (ii) the promotion of
a sustainable finance and credit system; (iii) further liberalization of price.
and trade; and (iv) strengthened support services for private agriculture. These
issues were reviewed in a Technical Report: Agricultural Strategy for Bulgaria,
prepared by a joint PHARE/World Bank Task Force, discussed and endorsed by the
GOB in September 1992.
2.18       The pace of land restitution accelerated considerably during 1993 and
about 55% of agricultural land had been restituted by March 31, 1994.  It is
reasonable to expect that this process will be completed during 1994 on most of



- 7 -
the 5.1 million ha of land subject to restitution. Relatively easy restitutions
have been completed. These were cases with existing original physical boundaries
and cover about 680,000 ha, or 13% of agricultural land.   Most other cases
required the preparation of land reallocation plans. About 2.1 million ha, or
41%, has been restituted on the basis of such plans and surveyors are finalizing
plans for the remainder. Separately, private management of land is gaining
rapidly. About 4.2 million ha were privately farmed by March 1994.
2.19       The liquidation of collective farms remains incomplete.  From about
2,100 collectives only 212 have formally completed the liquidation process by
March 1994.   Most other collective farms have reached the stage where the
liquidation committees have substantially completed their work.   It is now
expected that the process will be completed during 1994.
2.20       Although input and output prices are increasingly market-determined,
GOB has sought to restrain producer prices by trade controls and export
restrictions in order to protect urban consumers (paras. 2.12-2.14). Completion
of the price and trade liberalization program would raise many farm gate prices
and create better conditions for development of competitive input supply,
processing, and marketing sectors. GOB's continued commitment to market-oriented
price policy, demonstrated by lifting of the export ban on grains, would be
reaffirmed through assurances under the proposed loan (para. 5.06).
2.21       In response to strong political pressure to extend "affordable, credit
to farmers, GOB approved subsidized short-term credit schemes of very similar
design for the 1992, 1993, and 1994 crop years. The 1993 short-term farm credit
scheme was to finance production inputs during the year for selected crops. Most
of the subsidies were to go to Liquidation Councils, although private farmers
were also eligible. The interest rate on the loans is the BNB base rate (about
48% in 1993) of which GOB finances 2/3 (say 32%) and the beneficiaries 1/3 (16%).
Leva 1 billion was earmarked in the 1993 GOB budget for the subsidy element in
the interest charge.   However, about Leva 450 million was actually utilized
because: (i) the approved level of funding was not available in the budget and
(ii) banks were reluctant to increase their exposure to the Liquidation Councils,
since the credit risks on these loans is shared equally between GOB and
participating banks. This may be compared to total farm credit (short, medium,
long-term) actually extended in 1992, estimated at Leva 5 billion (US$200
million), or to total credit portfolio for economic activities outstanding in the
entire banking sector of Leva 211 billion as of October 31, 1993.  The three
banks appraised for participation in the proposed project have disbursed about
Leva 150 million under this program.
2.22       A similar program of Leva  1.5 billion was  approved  for 1994.
Preferential credit to farmers is available to all farmers (e.g., individual
farmers, producer cooperatives and companies).   Loans are collateralized by
produce, tangible assets, or other immovables.   As under the 1992 and 1993
programs, it is expected that actual disbursements would be significantly lower,
due to the cautious attitude toward these programs by Bulgaria's commercial



banks. Interest rate subsidies are not available for the small volume of medium-
and longer-term agricultural loans made in the past two years.   Continuing
budgetary support to some non-viable, state-owned agro-industrial enterprises may
be a more important source of distortion in resource use.
2.23       It has been recognized that GOB resources are extremely limited and
that subsidized farm credit programs are likely to have relatively little effect
on the availability of credit to farmers.   Subsidized and directed credit
programs distort the allocation of financial resources, crowd-out market-based
lending, weaken the development of the fledgling financial markets and undermine
the development of the private sector.  Assurances will be sought under the
proposed Financial and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan (FESAL) that such
credit programs be phased-out and replaced, where warranted, by direct GOB
subsidies. Since this project is expected to precede the FESAL, assurances on
the phasing out of such credit programs limited to the agricultural sector would
be sought under this project (para. 5.06).
2.24       Support services to the newly-emerging private agriculture remain
inadequate, although an appropriate administrative framework is being put into
place. MOA has been reorganized in July 1992 to facilitate the transition to
market-based agriculture. Its main objectives include: (i) the completion of the
land restitution process, liquidation of collective farms and privatization of
agroindustries under its jurisdiction; (ii) the promotion of competition and
efficiency in input supply, processing and marketing activities; (iii) the
restructuring of education, research and extension services appropriate for
private agriculture; (iv) support for an appropriate legal and administrative
framework for health and environmental protection; (v) the restructuring of
irrigation to meet the needs of private sector farm operations; and (vi) support
for development of the cooperative sector. Progress on many of these issues has
been limited by financial and administrative constraints.
2.25       Technical Assistance Programs. Several technical assistance programs
have been completed or are underway to support agricultural reforms.   Major
donors are the EU-PHARE, the USA, Austria, and the Netherlands. The objectives
of the EU-PHARE program are to provide policy advice, training, office equipment
and essential supplies to support key agricultural policy reforms.   On the
restoration of ProPerty rights, the most effective support has been rendered in
the restitution of land by providing legal advice, implementation planning,
management support, training, office and survey equipment. In preparation for
privatization, technical and financial audits of SOEs have been completed in four
sub-sectors (animal feed, meat, milk, fruit and vegetables). On price and trade
liberalization, support has been rendered in the development of agricultural
statistics, price and trade data, and information systems to assist farmers,
traders and GOB.  Support is planned for the development of wholesale/auction
markets  and other marketing  channels.   On credit  and  finance,  technical
assistance to banks has been offered but not yet implemented. On institutional
suPort to MOA, several technical assistance projects have been completed or are
underway, including: advice on the reorganization of MOA (summer 1992), a
comprehensive audit and a restructuring proposal for research, education and
extension systems, establishment of a policy analysis unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture, several commodity studies, and a network of 30 self-selected



reference private farms to extend farm management advice.  Already, the farm
network yields data that will be used to help farmers prepare loan applications
and business plans for consideration under the proposed project.
2.26       The USDA and USAID have extended technical assistance and financial
support to several key areas including: (i) payments from counterpart funds for
local expenditures incurred in the implementation of the land reform; (ii)
support of several NGOs active in agriculture; and (iii) detailed ongoing review
of the Bulgarian grain market with policy recommendations enhancing the role of
the private sector in grain storage and trade.
D. The Banking Sector
2.27       Background.   The financial sector in Bulgaria has evolved from a
banking system of four state banks to a two-tier system comprised in 1989 of a
central bank and about 70 commercial banks, including 7 private banks. Until
1987, there were four banks that performed separate functions. The State Savings
Bank (SSB) took retail deposits and extended small loans to its depositors. The
Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (BFTB) conducted the country'. foreign-exchange-
related operations, including foreign borrowing on GOB's behalf. The Mineral
Bank financed state enterprise activities that were not included in the budget.
The Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) served as a central bank and the principal
creditor to SOEs. These banks provided financial resources to meet economic and
social priorities predetermined by the central planning authorities.   They
extended loans without assessing financial or economic risks, and faced no
competition. Interest rates were determined administratively by the Council of
Ministers and played an insignificant role in the mobilization and allocation of
financial resources. The interest rate structure was built on a basic rate, and
nominal rates were fixed over long periods of time.
2.28       In 1987, GOB attempted to decentralize the banking system by creating
seven specialized banks to finance specific sectors (e.g., transport,
agriculture, electronics). These banks took deposits and made loans to SOEs,
diminishing the role of BNB in credit extension. They also performed a range of
other financial services, including foreign exchange operations which, until
then, was a monopoly of BFTB. Subsequently, from 1989 to 1990, GOB undertook a
broader decentralization plan.  All branches of BNB were transformed into 59
separate state-owned banks. BNB relinquished its role as a lender and confined
itself to traditional central banking functions. The result of these actions is
the two-tier banking system that exists today.
2.29       Interest Rate Liberalization.  Since 1991, interest rates have been
liberalized and the monetary policy has shifted progressively from direct to
indirect control of money aggregates. BNB sets the basic rate (the rediscounting
rate) to maintain market-oriented interest rates, consistent with exchange rate
targets agreed with the IMF.   The ultimate BNB objective is to phase out
remaining direct control instruments. These are credit ceilings set for each
bank based on its capital and liquidity position. Banks now freely negotiate and
quote rates on deposits and new loans, as a spread over the basic rate, and offer
market-oriented rates.  The only exception is the SSB, which holds a special



- 10 -
privilege as the only bank whose deposits are guaranteed by GOB.   With a
consequently lower cost of funds, it has chosen to charge lower rates to
household borrowers than most banks charge to commercial borrowers. However, BNB
is planning to introduce a mandatory deposit insurance scheme during 1994, which
will level competition between the commercial banks and SSB.
2.30       Legal and Regulatory Framework.  This is defined by the Law on Banking
and Credit Activity (Banking Law) and the Law on Bulgarian National Bank (Central
Bank Law) enacted in 1992. The Banking Law defines the activities of banks and
empowers the Central Bank to supervise and regulate specific bank activities.
Through this legislation, all banks could be licensed to accept deposits, grant
loans, buy and sell foreign currency, precious metals and securities, and act as
intermediarie, for investment funds.  This law broadens the scope of banking
activities by granting banks permission to sell and underwrite securities and,
therefore, operate as universal banks.   The law clearly identifies banking
activities to be supervised and regulated by the Central Bank. Generally in line
with internationally accepted accounting standards, a new unified chart of
accounts for banking institutions, accompanied by detailed accounting
instructions  and procedures,  has been introduced.   The first set of six
prudential regulations has been adopted in 1993, covering: (i) asset
classification and provisioning; (ii) lending limits; (iii) capital adequacy;
(iv) internal control;  (v) liquidity; and (vi) licensing.   Generally, these
regulations generally provide an adequate foundation for safe and sound banking
conduct and for BNB's supervisory role. However, transitional arrangements for
compliance with the regulations have been criticized, and further revisions may
be required. A number of other activities designed to foster the development of
a modern, market-oriented financial system would be supported by the proposed
FESAL.
2.31       The  legal  framework  for  the  enforcement  of  rights  over  loan
collaterals is adequately defined in existing laws, principally the 1951 law on
liabilities and contracts.   The registration of real estate mortgages  is
performed by the regional courts.   The procedures for the recovery of loan
collaterals by banks are spelled out in the Civil Procedure Code of 1952, as
amended up to 1991. Procedures for the foreclosure of collaterals are considered
adequate for lending to the private sector and would take anywhere between a few
days and two months.   Foreclosure procedures against SOEs are insufficient,
pending the promulgation of a bankruptcy law. There is as yet no procedure for
the registration of chattel mortgages.   Banks deal with this shortcoming by
taking possession of collaterals or the original ownership documents and by
checking with  other banks  through  the regular  credit  check process.    A
registration procedure for chattels needs to be developed to improve the system's
ability to prevent multiple mortgages.   BNB is addressing this problem in
conjunction with measures to improve the credit checking system.   A credit
information system supported by the FESAL would be introduced during 1994.
2.32       Private Bankina.  The reform of the banking system has supported the
emergence of private banking and added an element of competition among banks on
the basis of quality of service.  There are now 16 banks operating under majority
or total private ownership and additional private banks have been licensed.
While their sizes and combined resources are modest compared to state-owned



- 11 -
banks, they already have 205 head offices and branches compared to 462 of the
state-owned banks. International licenses require equity capital of Leva 500
million and domestic licenses require capital of Leva 200 million.   As a
transitional measure, BNB has issued a number of licenses to banks that do not
meet these requirements. While the objective of the banking law is to provide
equal treatment to private and state-owned banks, in practice private banks
complain about discrimination. Planned improvements in the legal and regulatory
framework should gradually allay unfair treatment, or the perception of unfair
treatment among private banks.
2.33       In January 1992, GOB established the Banking Consolidation Company
(BCC), as a temporary holding company, to consolidate, restructure and ultimately
to privatize state-owned banks. Shares of 71 state-owned banks were transferred
to BCC and the consolidation process was initiated. The first BCC merger scheme
led to the establishment of the United Bulgarian Bank consisting of 22 banks in
January 1993. Two more banks started operations after completion of the merger
process: Balkanbank in a merger of the previous Balkanbank with three smaller
banks; and Hebros Commercial Bank in a merger of the Agricultural and Cooperative
Plovdiv with the Commercial Bank of Plovdiv and three smaller banks. Both of
these new banks hold sizeable agricultural portfolios. Other merger schemes have
been approved in principle and are awaiting implementation. The expected number
of new state-owned banks after the completion of the merger process is about ten.
2.34       Cleaning up the bad debts of state-owned banks has been initiated and
bad loans have been written off the banks' balance sheets or are to be written
off in several stages since 1992. In 1991 and 1992, bad loans of Leva 10 billion
were written off and replaced with GOB bonds.   Bad loans to the energy and
agricultural sectors have been cancelled. This has been followed by a write-off
of Leva 18 billion in 1993. A new law provides for the write-off of Leva 97
billion.   However,  until the state enterprise  sector is reformed through
privatization and restructuring, the state-owned banks are likely to continue
under pressure to lend to it and continue to reflect the financial distress of
SOEs in their books. The same is true for the portfolio in agriculture. Most
of the poorly-performing agricultural lending of the state-owned banks is to
collective farms in liquidation. It is essential to address the restructuring
of the state banking and enterprise sectors simultaneously, and to move toward
privatization.  The proposed FESAL would support the measures needed for the
restructuring and privatization of the state-owned banks and enterprises.
III. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
3.01       Since becoming a Bank member in September 1990, Bulgaria has looked
to the Bank for assistance in the transformation and revival of its economy. In
response, the Bank has prepared a country assistance strategy focusing on: (a)
support for the design and implementation of market reforms and mitigation of the
impact of reforms on the poor through an adequate social safety net, through
adjustment operations and technical assistance; (b) the restoration of
creditworthiness by aiding in a debt reduction deal with the country's commercial



- 12 -
and official creditors and through aid coordination; and (c) the generation of
an adequate supply response from the productive sectors and the building of an
adequate infrastructure through investment operations.
3.02       The centerpiece of the Bank's initial activities in Bulgaria was the
SAL approved in August 1991 (Loan 3397-BUL). The SAL has supported steps toward
the liberalization of prices and the opening of the economy to external
competition, resulting in the establishment of market-based relative prices; the
return of agricultural land to private owners; the demonopolization of industry,
transport and domestic trade; the creation of a two-tier banking system; and the
creation of a social safety net.   These structural  reform measures were
undertaken in coordination with an IMF-supported stabilization program, which
included the adoption of a unified, market-based floating exchange rate, tight
monetary and fiscal policies and an incomes policy designed to reduce real wages.
A new IMF Stand-by agreement, complemented by drawings from the Structural
Transformation facility, was signed in March 1994. All conditions of the SAL
have been complied with and the second tranche was released in March 1994.
3.03       Several  lending  operations  have  been  approved  or  are  under
preparation. The Bank approved a Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 3384-BUL) in
June 1991 to provide assistance in, among other things, formulating a debt
management strategy and improving the debt data base. Resolution of the debt
problem remains one of the critical issues to be resolved before creditworthiness
can be restored. The Bank is preparing a Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR)
operation to support a satisfactory settlement of the country's debt problem with
commercial and official creditors.
3.04       The Bank approved three projects in 1993.  The Private Investment and
Export Finance Project (PIEF), Loan 3631-BUL, was approved in June 1993 to
provide: (i) investment financing for new, and expansion of existing, private and
privatized enterprises; (ii) export financing for economically and financially
profitable export transactions; and (iii) technical assistance to PFIs to build
capacity for project appraisal and supervision. The Bulgaria Telecommunications
Project, Loan 3592-BUL, was approved in April 1993 to support investment in the
telecommunications sector, along with essential institutional reforms.   The
Energy Project, Loan 3563-BUL, was approved in March 1993, mainly to improve the
efficiency and reliability of the power system.
3.05       A FESAL, presently under preparation, is designed to follow through
on SAL reform measures by focusing on three key reform themes: (a) that growth
in output, exports and employment be generated increasingly by new private
enterprises and privatized state enterprises; (b) that loss-making by state
enterprises be eliminated/reduced quickly to release resources for private sector
growth; and (c) that a healthy, efficient and market-oriented financial sector
be developed quickly to provide financial intermediation services for the debt
and equity capital needed by the private sector.
3.06       Investment operations in infrastructure and the social sectors are
being prepared to help provide the physical and human resource base needed to
return the country to economic growth.   A Water Companies Restructuring and
Modernization Project, appraised in June 1993, would support GOB's efforts in



- 13 -
establishing sound water companies responsive to users, to reduce the backlog of
maintenance and unfinished works. It would improve the efficiency of water usage
and improve efficiency and cost recovery. An Education Project was appraised in
November 1993 to help develop educational assessment capability, career guidance
services, and textbook production and distribution, and support restructuring of
higher education and research.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.07       A basic rationale for the proposed project is to help mobilize medium-
and long-term credit for private investment needs generated by the transition.
The country's foreign debt moratorium has limited access to international
financial markets and reduced the availability of foreign exchange credits. This
situation is likely to persist even after the recent preliminary agreement on
Bulgaria's foreign debt, since it will take time to reestablish Bulgaria's
creditworthiness and to improve access to international financial markets. The
project would provide some relief for the agricultural sector while debt
restructuring is arranged, supply medium- and long-term funds to support growing
private activity in the sector, and begin the process of strengthening financial
institutions involved in market-oriented rural credit.
3.08       A substantial share of project proceeds would meet expected credit
demand in primary agriculture, and would thereby complement the PIEF operation
which focuses on credit needs in the non-agricultural sector. Steady progress
in land restitution and rapid expansion of land leasing arrangements are
providing a growing base for private sector agriculture. There has been heavy
decapitalization of the sector in recent years, particularly in terms of
equipment for soil tillage, sowing, harvesting, product storage and handling,
transportation and processing. MOA estimates that actual disbursement of medium-
and long-term agricultural credit averaged about $4 million equivalent in recent
years; potential annual demand has been roughly estimated at $100 million, mainly
for replacement of equipment and other assets. Remaining farm-level equipment
in usable condition is inefficient and frequently ill-suited for the new smaller
production units being established.
3.09       Since banking was opened to the private sector, several private banks
have been established.   However, these banks are still small and weak.   The
proposed project would provide technical assistance to PFIs engaged in lending
to agriculture, mainly in order to strengthen their project-financing capacity.
The consolidation of the state-owned banks was largely completed in 1993. The
Bank Consolidation Company (BCC), formed in 1992 to assume majority share
ownership of state-owned banks in order to undertake the necessary consolidation
process, has acquired about 90% of the shares of the state-owned banks. BCC
defined the criteria to be used for merging banks and established a database to
assess alternative proposals for mergers. The process has involved the merger of
66 banks into 11 major banks, including five banks which will not be merged.
Another three small banks are expected to be liquidated or sold. Consolidation
is to be followed by privatization. State banks would be allowed to participate
in the project once they have been consolidated and have made substantial
progress in restructuring and privatization.



- 14 -
3.10       A major challenge will be for the PFIs to identify and develop groups
of sub-borrowers among primary producers able to prepare applications for sub-
loans of a size large enough to be of interest to the PFIs. These are likely to
include legally-organized farmers' associations, and other similar groups, newly
organized from the former agricultural collectives, rather than individual
farmers for whom unit credit delivery costs are high.
3.11       The proposed project is considered the most suitable for conditions
now prevailing in Bulgarian agriculture. It is expected that private investors
would respond relatively quickly to the opportunities created by the reforms in
agriculture. Public investments would need to be targeted to areas with strong
"public good" justification and only to the highest priorities, because of
limited GOB resources and reluctance to take decisive steps in restructuring of
public sector organizations. As the transition in agriculture proceeds and the
most pressing credit requirements are met, future Bank support for agricultural
infrastructure (e.g., irrigation rehabilitation) and support services (e.g.,
research, extension) may be warranted.
3.12       Lessons Learned.  Experience with Bank operations in Bulgaria is
limited. Disbursement of the Technical Assistance Loan approved in FY91 has
proceeded slowly because of limited implementation capacity; it is expected that
the second tranche of the SAL, approved in FY92, will be released shortly; the
operations approved in FY93 have only recently become effective. Elsewhere in the
transitional economies, experience with the Bank's agricultural credit projects
has been mixed. A number of these have disbursed slowly, in part because of the
institutional uncertainties associated with decollectivization and land
restitution. Lessons learned from OED performance audits of agricultural credit
projects and financial sector operations have highlighted the importance of: (i)
careful identification and preparation of sub-loans; (ii) the financial viability
of PFIs; (iii) GOB commitment to market-based agricultural price, trade, and
lending policy; and (iv) strict financial discipline by the PFIs and the sub-
borrowers. These factors have been incorporated in project design and will be
monitored during implementation.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Scope
4.01       The proposed project would be the Bank's first operation in the
agricultural sector. It is designed to improve access of the private sector to
medium- and long-term credit for investments in primary agriculture and
agribusiness. Medium- and long-term foreign exchange resources would be made
available through World Bank-approved commercial banks to finance import. of farm
machinery and other equipment needed in the modernization of the sector. The
project would strengthen the capacity of PFIs for appraisal and supervision of
investment projects in agriculture and agribusiness.



- 15 -
4.02       Prolect ComiDonents.  The proposed project would be implemented over
a four-year period (1994 through 1997) and would consist of two major components:
(a)  The credit component would finance medium- and long-term sub-
loans   exclusively  to  private   investors   for  eligible
investments.   These would be imports of fixed and movable
assets and associated permanent working capital for financially
and   economically   viable   investments   in   agriculture,
agribusiness and related activities such as transport, trade,
handicrafts, rural tourism, and associated services.
(b)  Institutional development assistance to the PFIs would include
(i) TA to strengthen their capacity in the appraisal and
supervision of sub-loans, and (ii) the financing of part of the
office and other equipment needed for modernization. Grant
support from donors is expected for much of the training
activity.
4.03       Definition of Private Aariculture and Aaribusiness.   The private
sector already accounts for more than 50% of agricultural production and is
steadily expanding. About 55% of farm land had been restituted by March 1994.
A large number of private farm-related businesses have taken over activities of
former collective farms.   A substantial number of agroindustrial SOEs are
expected to be privatized.   The definition of the private sector under the
project will encompass private enterprise of all forms, including:
(a)  individual  farmers,  groups of farmers,  legally constituted
cooperatives, partnerships;
(b)  new or existing enterprises with a private ownership of at least
51%;
(c)  former state enterprises with a private ownership of at
least 51%; and
(d)  private individuals, partnerships or companies operating a state
enterprise or a part of a state enterprise under a lease
agreement approved by an authorized GOB agency, i.e., the
privatization agency, line ministries, or municipalities.
4.04       Credit Demand.   Although projections of credit demand under the
project for medium- and longer-term credit remain uncertain, prospective PFIs
have confirmed a growing number of investment credit applications. A plausible
assumption is that up to 50% of the loan proceeds would go to support primary
acricultural production and the balance to agribusiness. Examples of farm-level
credit demand relate to demand for tractors and combine harvesters. The tractor
fleet (1988) totals about 50,000 units. About US$7.5 million/year in foreign
exchange would be required for replacement of tractors assuming: (i) 2.5 million
of Bulgaria's 4.7 million ha of arable land are mechanized; (ii) a 45-hp tractor
is adequate for 100 ha, or 25,000 tractors for the 2.5 million ha; (iii) 1,000



- 16 -
tractors are purchased each year, of which 500 are imported at a very
conservative average cost of US$15,000 each. Similarly, annual foreign exchange
demand for combine imports would be US$42 million assuming: (i) a 6% annual
replacement (i.e., a 16-17 year service life and, unrealistically, no backlog)
of some 14,000 combines in the country, most of Soviet-origin; and (ii) a unit
price of at least US$50,000.   Substantial  import demand is expected  for
irrigation pumps, motors, and perhaps distribution pipes, grain drying, storage
and milling equipment, transport equipment such as pick-ups, and trucks of up to
5-ton capacity, breeding stock such as broilers and layer chicks, dairy and beef
animals and lean-meat pig breeds, agricultural chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
4.05       An important project objective is to help establish a competitive
private trade network and associated services for agricultural equipment and
supplies. It is expected that locally incorporated equipment dealers and input
suppliers will be important beneficiaries under the proposed project. Foreign
suppliers are teaming up with local entrepreneurs in the development of private
networks of dealers and suppliers. Import regulations have been liberalized to
allow foreign equipment suppliers into the Bulgarian market on a competitive
basis.  The project would provide financing to the growing number of learing
companies for agricultural and agroindustrial equipment.
4.06       While the legal framework for lending to theme entities is adequate,
the legal status of some such entities is uncertain due to pending restitution,
liquidation and privatization claims.  A caae-by-case assessment of ownership
status would be required in sub-loan appraisal. Particular attention would be
given to the adequacy of lease contracts and sub-loan repayment periods would not
exceed the duration of the lease.
B. Prolect Costs and Financing Plan
4.07       The preliminary demand assessment of the PFIs, based on a potential
range of eligible investments, supports a Bank credit line of US$50 million,
which would finance total investments of about US$63.4 million equivalent. This
would amounts to about 5% to 10% of expected credit demand in the sector over the
next three to four years and to about 2% of the credit portfolio of the PFIs.
The cost of the institutional development component is estimated at US$4.6
million, 76% of which would be in foreign exchange. Grant support of US$600,000
has been secured from bilateral sources to finance the foreign exchange and local
cost of bank training under this component (paras. 4.21-4.24). The components,
cost estimates, and financing sources are summarized below:
Foreign             Private
Bank   Donors      PFIs    Enterprises    Total
------------------(US$million)----------------
A. Credit Component
Primary Agriculture      23.5         -       -         5.9          29.4
Agroindustries           23.5         -       -          5.9         29.4
B. Institutional Development
Training                   -         0.6      -          -            0.6
Equipment                 3.0         -      1.0         -4.0
C.  Grand Total                50.0        0.6               51.64



- 17 -
C. The Credit Component
4.08        Participating Financial Intermediaries.   As under the PIEF, only
financial intermediaries that meet the following minimum criteria for long-term
oustainability would be allowed to participate under the project:
(a)   sound financial condition evidenced by the submission of
financial statements audited by independent auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, according to international
accounting and auditing standards;
(b)   compliance with prudential regulations on liquidity,
loan   classification,    loss   provisioning,    loan
concentration and capital adequacy, acceptable to the
Bank;
(c)   satisfactory  financial performance,  measured by the
achievement of a minimum return on earning assets of 4%,
and the potential to earn a positive real return on
equity within the first five years of operation; and
(d)   maintenance,  during each fiscal year,  of a minimum
collection ratio of 85% and a maximum infection ratio of
15% on all medium and long-term loans.
4.09        Beyond demonstrating financial soundness and satisfactory financial
and operational performance, a PFI should have the capability to intermediate
Bank funds.  For this purpose, a PFI would be required to have in place the
following: (i) general policies and corporate strategies, satisfactory to the
Bank; (ii) operating policies and procedures related to the handling of Bank
funds, satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) a capacity for project appraisal and
supervision in accordance with Bank policies and procedures; and (iv) an adequate
staff development and training program. To meet these requirements, a PFI would
adopt, through a resolution by its board of directors, a Policy Statement and a
Corporate Strategy Statement, satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition for
participation (para. 5.05).
4.10        Three banks have been appraised as potential participating financial
intermediaries (PFIe).   Appraisal details of these banks are available in a
separate volume in project files. Two of these are privately-owned/controlled,
Dobrudja Commercial Bank (DCB) and Central Cooperative Bank (CCB), with the
third, the Bulgarian Post Bank (BPB), a state-owned bank established in 1991.
In addition, banks appraised under the PIEF have expressed interest in
participating in the project. These are: First Private Bank Ltd., Tourist Sport
Bank, and the International Bank for Investment and Development. However, from
these three banks, so far only the First Private Bank has met the participation
criteria. Other banks that have expressed interest in participating upon meeting
the criteria include Hebros Commercial Bank, United Bulgarian Bank and



- 18 -
Balkanbank.   With completion of their mergers,  portfolio/financial audits,
financial restructuring and adoption of privatization plans, they would be
considered for participation in the project.
4.11        An a supplementary condition to eligibility, DCB will submit to the
Bank a financial and receivables management plan that will address the need to
satisfy the minimum Leva 200 million capitalization, while meeting provisioning
requirements.    Implementation of this plan would be a condition for DCB
participation.
4.12        In the case of BPB, the present capital adequacy ratio falls short
of the required level, notwithstanding full compliance with the regulation on
provisions in its present form. A BPB proposal for a capital increase from Leva
60 million to Lava 500 million was approved by BCC and BNB on April 19, 1994.
This would meet the capital requirement for an international banking license and
would enable BPB to increase its BNB-set credit limit beyond the current Leva 1.5
billion.    The  BPB  management  has  formulated  a  privatization  plan  that
incorporates the possible participation of private investors of at least 30%
during the first phase of its privatization, to be eventually raised to a
controlling interest. The approval of the plan is pending with the Government
and BNB which are expected to reach a decision by October 1994.
4.13        Participation by Other Private Banks. A minimum of two eligible PFIc
would be required to start project implementation. This would be a condition of
loan  effectiveness  (para.  5.07).    The  project  would  be  kept  open  for
participation by other interested financial intermediaries found by the Bank to
have met eligibility criteria during project implementation or through the
appraisal process of future Bank credit operations.  The following procedure
would be followed for eligibility assessment:
(a)   preparation by the PFI of the data requested through questionnaires
provided during previous Bank missions;
(b)   participation in the technical assistance program of the
project to provide training in, and install adequate systems
for, project appraisal and supervision;
(c)   submission  of  audit  opinions  by  independent  auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared in accordance with
international accounting and auditing standards for the year
immediately preceding the year of application; and
(d)   appraisal by the Bank according to the eligibility criteria
described above.
4.14        ParticiDation by State-Owned Banks.  Criteria for participation of
state-owned banks would be identical to those under the PIEF. State-owned banks
would become eligible for participation upon meeting the following requirements:
(a)   completion of the consolidation process under BCC, including
all necessary legal actions;



- 19 -
(b)   completion of a financial and a special portfolio audit by
independent   auditors,   prepared   in   accordance   with
international   auditing   standards   on   the   basis   of
internationally accepted accounting principles and in accord
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)   an agreement with GOB on a financial, organizational and
operational restructuring plan prepared on the basis of the
audit findings; and
(d)   a concrete privatization plan.
At the time of appraisal, BPB was in the best position to meet these
requirements. The Hebros Bank (formerly Agricultural and Cooperative Bank), the
Balkanbank, United Bulgarian Bank, all state-owned, have made some progress over
the last eight months toward meeting the above requirements.
4.15        Sub-Project Eligibility Criteria,  only private sector sub-borrowers
would be eligible for investment credits under the project. Given that sub-
borrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk of their sub-loans, lending would
emphasize export-oriented activities that can provide the revenue stream to hedge
against the risk. For some sub-loans to primary agriculture, this may not be
possible, in which case sub-loans would be repaid in foreign exchange purchased
at the going market rate. Given the unstable economic conditions in Bulgaria and
the inherent risks associated with project finance, adherence to prudent
standards for financial soundness and performance would be required. The cost of
preparing business plans and feasibility studies of approved sub-projects would
be eligible for financing under this component. The following standards would be
required as eligibility criteria of sub-loans to enterprises:
Ratio                                       Standard
Maximum long-term debt-equity ratio                              4.0:1
Minimum debt service-cover ratio                                 1.5:1
Minimum real financial rate of return                              15%
for sub-loans exceeding $100,000
Maximum payback period for sub-loans                            5 years
of less than $100,000
Minimum real economic rate of return                               15%
for sub-loans exceeding $750,000
4.16        Applications of farmers and rural entrepreneurs for sub-loans up to
US$100,000  equivalent  would  follow  simple  guidelines  and  administrative
procedures.  A handbook is being prepared to assist applicants in sub-project
preparation.  Typically, applications for sub-loans of up to $100,000 should
include: (i) activity models for selected livestock and crops which would give
an indication of the projected cash flow of selected activities, rough estimates
of their repayment capacity and returns to family labor; (ii) availability of
market outlets; and (iii) product prices to farmers; all of which will be



- 20 -
reviewed during application processing. Such information will be used as basis
for credit application analysis and not as a requirement to be followed
mechanically.   Estimates of the economic rate of return (ERR) would not be
expected for sub-loans of less than $750,000. Small rural entrepreneurs will
submit simplified business plans for their activity.   Applications will be
processed within 30 days of receipt by the PFI and applicants will be notified
in writing by the PFI. A rejected applicant will receive a clear explanation.
4.17        Applications for sub-loans of more than US$100,000 equivalent would
require a submission of a formal business plan. Applications will be processed
within 90 days and applicants will be notified in writing by the PFI. A rejected
applicant will also receive a clear explanation.   In addition to eligibility
criteria established in para. 4.15, sub-loan approval by a PFI would require
satisfactory review of the submitted business plan, including:
(a)   credit-worthiness of the prospective sub-borrower including
tax records; an established credit history would be an
advantage;
(b)   technical   feasibility,   financial  viability,   commercial
soundness  and  economic  justification  of  the  proposed
investment, including an ERR estimate for sub-loans exceeding
$750,000;
(c)   assessment of the organizational structure, management, and
verified biographical information of the principal investors
and managers;
(d)   assessment of marketing arrangements and marketing prospects
for the incremental production resulting from the proposed
investment;
(f)   financial capability of the sub-borrower to make available the
required equity contribution; and
(g)   assessment  of  environmental  impact  and  compliance  with
environmental regulations.
4.18        TA to potential sub-borrowers would be available from a number of
NGOs and local consultants now operating in Bulgaria. Several computer software
packages for the preparation of credit applications and business plans have been
translated into Bulgarian and are widely available. A growing number of local
consulting firms, frequently in association with foreign partners, are engaged
in assisting the private sector to secure project financing. Assistance in the
identification and preparation of sub-loans would be an important element of
project implementation.
4.19        Sub-Loan Terms and Conditions.  PFIs have indicated that, because
their funds are short-term, they have not been able to make medium- or long-term
loans. If long-term funds were available, they need flexibility to structure
investment credits in accordance with the requirements of their clients. They
would prefer maturities of between 3 to 10 years including grace periods of up
to two years.



- 21 -
4.20        Accordingly, the sub-loan terms and conditions would be as follows:
(a)   sub-loan maturities would be for a minimum of 3 years and a
maximum of 12 years, including a grace period of up to 2
years;
(b)   sub-loans may be used for financing fixed and movable assets
and associated permanent working capital only, since PFIs have
short-term funds to finance seasonal working capital, but
including the cost of preparing feasibility and export
marketing studies related to sub-projects;
(c)   the final lending rate to a sub-borrower would be based on the
rate at which BNB on-lends to the PFIs (para. 5.01) with a
spread to be set by each PFI on the basis of market conditions
and risk assossment;
(d)   the maximum sub-loan cannot be greater than US$3 million or an
amount which, when added to all other loans extended to an
enterprise, would exceed 25% of a PFI's capital, in accordance
with BNB prudential regulations;
(e)   World Bank funds may not be used for transfer-of-assets type
transactions (e.g., land purchase or the acquisition of
companies in the privatization process);
(f)   World Bank funds may not be used to support the cultivation,
processing or marketing of tobacco and tobacco products;
(g)   lending to sub-borrowers would be in US dollars and Deutsche
marks (para. 5.01) with the sub-borrower bearing the exchange
risk; and
(h)   all sub-loans would be reviewed by the Bank until free limits
are given to PFIs on the basis of past performance.
D. Institutional Development of Particilatina Financial Intermediaries
4.21        The proposed project would assist the PFIs in becoming more efficient
banks in a competitive environment. To be able to intermediate Bank funds, the
PFIs would receive TA to create or improve their capacities to: (i) appraise
project proposals for green-field, modernization or expansion investments,
including their environmental impact; and (ii) supervise the implementation of
investment sub-projects, including procurement and disbursement in accordance
with Bank procedures. The loan would finance some of the PFIs' equipment needs



- 22 -
for institutional development. In accordance with the classifications specified
in O.D. 8.40, 'Technical Assistance", the TA part of this component is classified
into the capacity building category.
4.22        TA described above would be joint for both PIEF and ADP, since some
PFIs under the PIEF will also participate in this project. TA would consist of
three distinct phases: (a) a review of all PFIs to assess their current
capabilities and practices, identify skill gaps, reach agreement on the scope of
training required, and prepare the curricula and training materials; (b) formal
classroom training; and (c) on-the-job training and the installation of the
required systems in each PFI. TA would be provided by international specialists
and short-term consultants funded on a grant basis by the British Know-How Fund
(KHF).  Agreement in principle was obtained from KHF in December 1993 that a
program for 33 man-months of consultancy plus local costs would be financed. The
program is expected to cost US$600,000 and take about ten months. Details of the
program are in Annex 3.
4.23        The banks selected as PFIs for the project are benefitting from TA
programs under implementation or already completed.  A review of the CCB's
operations and its relations with the cooperative sector was undertaken by
consultants financed by KHF. Additionally, the KHF has agreed to finance the
services of a long-term advisor to the management of CCB.  The DCB had an
external advisor for three months under a US-funded volunteer program and will
obtain further assistance from NGOs in training branch staff in matters of
bank/client relationship.  The BPB has received TA from a number of European
postal banks and is in active negotiations for further TA. A program, carried
out by the University of Delaware in cooperation with the New Bulgarian
University, will provide training to the PFIs in management, economics and
technical  English.   TA  in bank  strategic planning,  credit  analysis  and
administration, asset-liability management, data base management and management
information systems will be available in a program financed under the TA
component of the PIEF.
4.24        Equipment for institutional development for the PFIs would include
some computer hardware and software for the computerization of banking
transactions, an activity in which all of the PFIs are actively involved. In
addition, some armored cars for the transport of money to and from rural bank
branches and other equipment will be financed under the proposed project. The
cost of the equipment is estimated at US$4 million of which US$3 million would
be financed from the loan.
E. Environmental Aspects
4.25        All sub-borrowers under the project would be required to comply with
environmental protection regulations of the country, acceptable to the Bank. In
appraising sub-projects, PFIs would ensure that sub-borrowers have received
clearance from the relevant regulatory agencies regarding the environmental
impact of their  investments.   Environmental  agencies  in Bulgaria,  while
relatively new and inexperienced, are being strengthened. Sub-borrowers would
be required to submit evidence of clearance as part of standard sub-loan



- 23 -
processing. During sub-project implementation, the PFIs would review compliance
with environmental regulations and requirements of sub-projects in the course of
normal sub-project supervision. The PFIs would report and coordinate regularly
with the environmental regulators, who are ultimately responsible for monitoring
compliance. The PFIs would reflect this approach to environmental protection in
their policy and strategy statements, agreed to with the Bank (para. 4.08). For
purposes of o.D. 4.01 on Environment Assessment, the proposed project has been
classified under Category "B".  An assurance will be obtained during project
negotiations that sub-projects would be undertaken in accordance with appropriate
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
V. THE LOAN
A. Terms and Conditions
5.01        For the proposed project, the Bank would provide a loan of US$50
million equivalent to the Government of Bulgaria (GOB) for a period of 17 years,
including a four-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
and repayment schedule.  GOB would on-lend to the PFIs: (i) US$47.0 million
equivalent for the financing of private sector investment projects in the
agricultural sector and agribusiness, including the preparation of business plans
and project feasibility studies; and (ii) US$3.0 million equivalent for equipment
and computer software for institutional development of the PFIs. When on-lending
to the PFIs for investment sub-projects, BNB would allow the PFIs to choose
sub-loans in Us dollars or Deutsche marks, two principal currencies of BNB's
currency pool obligation to the Bank. Maturities of the sub-loans to the PFIs
would be up to 12 years. BNB would charge the PFIs fixed interest rates based
on the prevailing yield of the 10-year benchmark US Treasury note (for US dollar
loans) and the 10-year benchmark German Government bond (for Deutsche marks
loans), plus a market-based spread to compensate it for remaining currency pool
risks and credit risks vis-a-vis the PFIs.
5.02        The PFIs would on-lend the funds to eligible private enterprises for
up  to  80%  of  an  enterprise's  total  financing  required.    Sub-loans  to
beneficiaries would be made in foreign currency for a minimum period of three
years and a maximum period of twelve years, including a grace period of up to two
years, at interest rates based on the rate at which BNB would on-lend to the
PFIs, plus a spread to be determined by the PFIs to compensate them for the
credit risk, administrative expenses and a reasonable profit margin. Sub-loan
agreements would include a pre-payment option with a schedule of pre-payment
penalties. PFIs would not be obliged, however, to remit prepaid funds to BNB,
but would be allowed to re-lend them for similar purposes within the overall
repayment schedule for each PFI. The variable (though very stable) currency pool
loan rates would be onlent by BNB in a portfolio of fixed-rate sub-loans in US
dollars and Deutsche marks. PFIs would have the possibility to roll-over
repayments from shorter term sub-loans to beneficiaries including repayments
before maturity dates.   Such procedure would be an innovative approach in
Bulgaria's banking sector and have the advantage that it would: (i) Introduce
some measure of rate stability in the emerging market for term investment



- 24 -
lending; (ii) oblige BNB to manage currency and interest rate risks; (iii) oblige
the PFIo to gain experience with foreign currency lending; and (iv) give BNB
experience with managing currency pool loan risks by onlending in a portfolio of
fixed rate loans in single currencies.
5.03        GOB through BNB would bear the cross currency risk and interest rate
risk of the currency pool and the credit risk of the PFIs, for which it would be
compensated, together with its administrative costs, by the spread it would
charge the PFIo. BNB would calculate its on-lending spreads for US dollars and
Deutsche marks by applying two basic principles: (i) the various risks should be
adequately covered. In the initial period of loan implementation this will be
difficult to assess. Over time, BNB would build up a portfolio of sub-loans to
PFIs in US dollars and Deutsche marks which would in itself be an effective way
to reduce the cross-currency risk;> and (ii) the margin would have to take into
consideration what the market would bear. To that extent, regular review would
be conducted to assess the market conditions. The PFIs would bear the credit
risks of their sub-borrowers. The sub-borrowers would bear the primary foreign
exchange risk against the Leva. Terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan of
a PFI from the GOB would be spelled out in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
BNB, acting as GOB's agent, and a PFI. A draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement is in
the Project File, Annex 1. The PFIs would compete for the funds on a first-come-
first-served basis.
5.04        GOB would on-lend US$3.0 million equivalent for equipment and
computer software to the PFIs (para. 4.24) at its cost of funds for a period of
ten years, including a three-year grace period, as outlined in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements. This partial subsidy is justified on grounds that PFIs are
still in an infant stage of development and institutional development will have
externalities; e.g., staff trained under the technical assistance program may
move from bank to bank or from a bank to the enterprise sector in a market-driven
job market.
5.05        Policy Statement and Corvorate Strateav Statement.  If not already
provided under the PIEF, each PFI would have to prepare and submit to the Bank
a Statement of Policy that defines its role in the financial sector, its overall
goals and its financial and operating policies, including environmental
protection policies; and a Statement of corporate Strategy that discusses the
PFI's business plan for achieving its objectives. These statements, which would
have to be satisfactory to the Bank and approved by a PFI1's board of directors,
would serve as the basis on which the PFI would operate under the project.
Drafts of the PFIs' policy and corporate strategy statements would be submitted
for Bank review prior to their adoption by the PFIs' boards of directors.
Adoption of policy and corporate strategy statements, satisfactory to the Bank,
of two PFIs, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
V  Based on discussions with PFIs to date, it is expected that there would be demand for sub-Loans In US
dollars and Deutsche marks, two of the three core currencies of the BNB's currency pool obligation. SUB
would need to charge a margin as compensation for residual currency risk and interest rate risk. While BNB
has determined to on-lend currency pool proceeds in foreign exchange, this project does not meet the
eligibility criteria for single currency loans since it is not expected that many of the sub-borrowers would
have revenues in foreign exchange.



- 25 -
5.06        Policy Assurances.  During project negotiation, GOB confirmed its
commitment to further liberalize agricultural prices and trade. Specifically,
GOB intends to lift the export ban on major food and feed grains and to phase out
export taxes on these products. These assurances would be monitored and reviewed
regularly with the Bank. Regarding its credit policy in agriculture, GOB agreed
to phase out farm credit interest subsidy programs by December 31, 1996 according
to the following schedule: (i) the maximum contribution by GOB to interest
payments due by farm credit recipients to the banking institutions shall be set
at half the BNB basic rate for short-term farm credits granted on or after
January 1, 1995 and at one-third of the BNB basic rate for short-term farm
credits granted on or after January 1, 1996; and (ii) GOB budget amount for the
farm credit subsidy program will be limited to Leva 1.5 billion for 1995 and Leva
1.5 billion for 1996. These lending policies would be reviewed regularly with
the Bank.
5.07        Conditions for Loan Effectiveness. Completion of the following steps
would be conditions of Loan effectiveness:
(a) signing of subsidiary loan agreements by GOB and at least
two eligible PFIs; and
(b) approval by the boards of directors of, and submission to the
Bank by, the same PFIs of their policy and corporate strategy
statements, satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Loan Administration
5.08        Procurement. Procurement procedures under the proposed project would
be those established for financial intermediation operations under the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Goods costing less than US$250,000 equivalent would be
procured at competitive prices in accordance with the normal commercial practices
acceptable to the Bank, due account being taken of other relevant factors much
as time, efficiency and reliability of delivery and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts. Goods costing US$250,000 to US$1.0 million equivalent
would be procured through international shopping on the basis of at least three
competitive quotations obtained from suppliers in three eligible countries.
Goods costing more than US$1.0 million equivalent would be procured through
limited international bidding (LIB) procedures using 'Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992. Identical
procedures would apply for the procurement of office and other equipment under
the institutional development component. Consultant services for contracts
exceeding US$20,000 would be awarded to consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.   Such consultants would be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981. Terms of reference and appointment of
consultants under such contracts would be subject to prior Bank approval.
Procurement of consultants and training services financed from grant funds would
be in accordance with procurement procedures of the relevant donors (para. 4.22).
Procurement arrangements are summarized below:



- 26 -
Procurement Method
Prolect Elements                LIz         Other P Total CQot
---------(USS million)---------
Credit Component                8.8         50.0       58.8
(7.0)      (40.0)     (47.0)
Institutional Development        -           4.6        4.6
_          (3.0)      (3.01
Total                      8.8         54.6       63.4
(7.0)      (43.0)      (50.0)
Pi  Up to USS250,000 commerciat practices; from USS250,000 to USS1.0 miLtion internationat
shopping; above USS1.0 miLLion Limited international bidding (LIS).
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amount to be financed under the proposed Loan.
5.09         The first two contracts for goods to be financed by each PFI and
all LIB procurements would be subject to prior review. All other contracts would
be reviewed on a sampling basis as part of regular Bank supervision. For this
purpose, the PFIs would be required to maintain records of the procurement made
under the project, with summaries of offers received and awards made under each
sub-loan. These records would also be used by external auditors in auditing the
PFIs' statement of expenditures. Training to PFIs in Bank procurement procedures
would be provided jointly for this project and the PIEF through Bank-sponsored
procurement seminars.
5.10         Disbursements.  Due to the great number of small disbursements
expected under the project, disbursements for contracts of amounts at or under
US$250,000 would be made against certified statement of expenditures for which
appropriate documentation would be retained by the PFIs.   Disbursements for
contracts of amounts above US$250,000 would be made on the basis of full
documentation in accordance with Guidelines of Withdrawal of Proceeds of IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (1985).  The Bank's reimbursement would be limited to
expenditures made by a sub-borrower not more than 180 days prior to the Bank's
receipt of the request for reimbursement. This longer-than-usual time lag is
needed because of the relative inexperience of the PFIs in dealing with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures.
5.11          Bank funds would be used to finance the fixed and movable assets
and associated permanent working capital needs of enterprises, as well as the
cost of preparing feasibility and studies relevant to the sub-projects to be
financed. The Bank would disburse 100% of the CIF cost of imported goods, 70%



- 27 -
of local expenditures of imported but locally purchased goods net of import
taxesand duties (farm equipment and most farm inputs are exempt from such taxes),
and 50% of the cost of business plans and feasibility studies.  Disbursement
procedures are summarized below:
% of
Amount of the         Expenditures
Prolect Elements            Loan Allocated        to be Financed
(US $)
(1) Credit Component          47,000,000          100% of foreign expenditures,
70% of local expenditures for
imported items procured locall
y and 50% of local expenditures
for services
(2) Institutional             3,000,000           100% of foreign expenditures
Development                                   and 70% of local expenditures
for imported items procured
locally
TOTAL            50,000,000
5.12        The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would be disbursed over a
period of four years. The majority of grant funds for institutional development
would be disbursed over the first year of the project. There are no disbursement
profiles for financial intermediation operations in Bulgaria as yet. Therefore,
disbursement projections are based on estimates taking into account disbursement
profiles of similar projects.   A schedule of estimated disbursements of the
proposed Bank loan is summarized below:
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year
1995      1996       1997   1998
----------(USS million)---------
Annual                                 7.0       20.0      20.0    3.0
Cumulative                             7.0      27.0       47.0   50.0
5.13        Special Accounts. Since it is expected that most sub-loan agreements
would be in US dollars and Deutsche marks (para. 5.01), special account for each
currency  would  be  created  in the  BNB  to  facilitate  disbursement.    All
expenditures under the project approved by the PFIs and subsequently authorized
by the Bank would be met out of the funds in the two special accounts. However,
expenditures for office and other equipment under the institutional development
component would be met out of the funds in the US dollars special account. The



- 28 -
dank would disburse into the special accounts an initial amount of US$3.5 million
equivalent, representing about four months of disbursements that would be broken
up into US$2.1 million and Deutsche marks 2.4 million into the special accounts
upon receiving applications from BNB.   It would periodically replenish the
accounts on the basis of approved reimbursement requests from the PFIs through
the BNB.
5.14        Reports. Accounts and Audits.  Each PFI would submit semi-annual
reports on commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under the project
to the Bank. For PFIs also participating in the PIEF, a single report covering
both projects would be acceptable. The PFIs would maintain proper accounts for
sub-loans including supporting procurement and disbursement documents, which,
together with the special accounts, would be audited annually by external
auditors acceptable to the Bank.   The regular annual audit of the PFI would
include a special opinion on the adequacy of Statement of Expenditure procedures.
Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
close of a PFI financial year. These audits would include a certification that
the PFI is in compliance with the financial covenants agreed to under the
project.
5.15        Closina  Date.       The  last  day  for  submission  of  withdrawal
applications to the Bank under the project would be December 31, 1997.  The
closing date of the Loan would be June 30, 1998.
5.16        Supervision. A project start-up workshop, followed by intensive Bank
supervision in the framework of a project implementation plan (Annex 4), would
focus on: (i) credit approval procedures and development of financial services
to clients; (ii) prior review of credit applications, the establishment of free
limits, and subsequent poet-review of credit applications; (iii) effectiveness
of technical support and professional expertise provided to PFIs; and (iv)
monitoring progress of GOB policy actions aimed at liberalizing agricultural
prices and trade. A mid-term review of project implementation would take place
by June 1996. Bank supervision would be coordinated with BNB, GOB agencies, and
the PIEF. About 20 Bank staff-weeks/year would be required.
5.17        Prolect Completion Report.   After completion of the project and
within six months of the closing date, BNB, in collaboration with the PFIs and
GOB agencies involved in project implementation, would prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the execution of the project, its costs and benefits, and it.
overall development impact as measured against original project objectives.  The
report would be used in the preparation of the completion report which would
focus on the economic impact of sub-loans and the performance of the PFIs and
agencies in discharging their respective obligations under the project.



- 29 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01        The project would improve credit supplies to support the transition
of agriculture to a market economy and strengthen key financial institutions
necessary for sustained development of the sector. Improved access to credit
would  help  stimulate  private  farming,  establish  private  agricultural
cooperatives, and foster privatization of agro-processing enterprises.   The
establishment  of  new  businesses  would  contribute  to  a more  competitive
environment, with benefits to both producers and consumers.  New investments
consistent with market forces are expected to increase efficiency of production,
improve the volume and quality of the domestic food supply, expand exports and
improve incomes for newly-independent farmers and entrepreneurs.   Increased
economic activity would generate tax revenue to the GOB and emphasis on
institutional strengthening would facilitate long-term sustainability of market-
oriented banking operations. The project would contribute to the development of
the banking sector by introducing medium- and long-term instruments and oblige
BNB and the PFIs to manage interest rate and currency risks.
B. Risks
6.02        Perceived project risks are of several types.  The major economic
risk is the possibility of macroeconomic destabilization which would undermine
the reform program and adversely affect the agriculture sector and the demand for
credit. Risks specific to agriculture include: (i) delays in the implementation
of  the  Land  Law;  (ii) delays  in  the  process  of  decollectivization  and
privatization; and (iii) reversals and/or delays in moving toward more liberal
agricultural price and trade policies. They will be addressed by implementation
assistance and progress monitoring. The main prolect risk is that sub-borrowers
will fail to repay their loans in full and on time. This could happen because
of inadequate preparation and supervision of sub-projects, macroeconomic
destabilization, adverse price developments, lack of credit discipline, etc.
This risk will be addressed by: (i) provision of professional expertise and
technical assistance to the PFIs to ensure high quality appraisals; (ii) close
supervision by the Bank; and (iii) monitoring of PFIs by BNB. A related risk is
that GOB would continue to emphasize farm credit subsidies and thus make project
funds less competitive. This risk would be addressed by conditionalities under
the project and the proposed FESAL. There is also the risk that PFIs may have
difficulty in identifying groups of sub-borrowers among Primary Produceru able
to prepare sub-loan applications of a size large enough to be of interest to the
PFIs.
6.03        While all reasonable means will be employed to minimize risk,
political and economic uncertainties in Bulgaria are likely to remain
significant. Given these institutional and economic uncertainties, the project
would be subject to close monitoring during implementation, including a "project
launch workshop" early in the period, a comprehensive "mid-term review", and
legal provision for cancellation or extensive restructuring in the case of non-
compliance with requirements or failure to meet monitorable indicators of
performance.



- 30 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        During negotiations, agreements with the Government, the Bulgarian
National Bank, and the PFIa, were reached on the following:
1.    Loan Condition
(a)   The Government would phase out the existing short-term farm
credit interest subsidy programs by December 31, 1996
according to the following schedule: (i) the maximum
contribution by the Government to interest payments due by
farm credit recipients to the banking institutions would be
set at half the BNB basic rate for short-term credit. granted
on or after January 1, 1995 and at one-third of the BNB basic
rate for short-term farm credits granted on or after January
1, 1996; and (ii) the state budget amount for the farm credit
interest subsidy program would be limited to Leva 1.5 billion
for 1995 and Leva 1.5 billion for 1996 (para. 5.06).
2.    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a)   The  Government  would  sign  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with at least two eligible PFIs
(para. 5.07a); and
(b)   The boards of directors of PFIs would adopt Policy Statements
and Corporate Strategy Statements, agreed with the Bank (para.
5.07b).
3.   Other Agreements
(a)   The  Government  would  confirm  its  commitment  to  further
liberalize agricultural prices and trade. Specifically, it
would lift the export ban on major food and feed grains and,
over time, phase out export taxes on these products (para.
5.06);
(b)   The Government would agree to an annual policy review related
to progress in agricultural price, trade, and credit policies
with the Bank (para. 5.06);
(c)   PFIs would participate in the staff training and systems
installation for project appraisal and supervision (para.
4.09); and
(d)   PFIs would ensure that sub-project appraisals be undertaken
in accordance with appropriate environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.25).
7.02        Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million for 17 years, including a
four-year grace period, at the standard variable interest rate.  The Borrower
would be the Republic of Bulgaria.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Documents Available in the Proiect Files
A. General
1. 1992 Annual Report of the Bulgarian National Bank.
2. Private Sector Development in Bulgaria; EBRD, May 1993.
3. Bulgaria - Investment Reconnaissance Mission (Support for Emerging
Private Enterprise in Agriculture and Agroindustries), FAO, January 1993.
4. Survey of Bulgarian Fruit and Vegetable Processing Plants, IESC
Stamford, March 1992.
5. Bulgarian Grain Market Management Study, USDA and EC-PHARE, May 1993.
6. Technical Assistance to the Agroprocessing Sector, EC-PHARE, September
1993.
7.  Report to VOCA on Assignments to Kubrat Municipality, November 1993.
8. The Private Farmer's Associations as an Agri-Business Organization in
Bulgaria, November 1993.
9. The Bulgarian Banking System: Evolution, Issues and Agenda, World Bank
FESAL Preapprasial Mission, October 1993.
B. Credit Comsonent
1. Balkanbank - 1988, 1991 and 1992 Annual Reports.
2. Bank for Agricultural Credit, Ltd. - 1991 and 1992 Annual Reports.
3. Bulgarian Post Bank - 1992 Annual Report.
4. Bulgarian Post Bank - Proposal for Audit of the Annual Financial
Statements.
5. Central Cooperative Bank - 1992 Annual Report.
6. First Private Bank - 1990 and 1991 Annual Reports.
7. International Bank for Investment and Development - Audit Report and
Financial Statements for 1992.
8. "Legal Aspects Governing the Recovery of Bank Collateral", Notes by World
Bank PIEF Appraisal Mission, February 1993.
9. Omnitech Limited, Company Profile, June 1993.
10. Omnitech Limited, 1992 Annual Report and Financial Audit.
11. Tourist Sport Bank - 1992 Annual Report.
12. Draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement for First Private Bank.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Lending to Farmer's Organizations and Cooperatives
I. Summary
1.          Bulgaria has a long tradition of successful farmers' organizations
and cooperatives. During the period of command economy, however, property and
activities related to agricultural production were grouped into mandatory
collectives, and most voluntary organizations were dissolved.  Presently, new
voluntary agricultural and service organizations are emerging. Trade/consumer
cooperatives managed to survive the period of command economy by maintaining a
minimum level of member involvement and a decentralized management.
2.          Trade Cooperatives (TCs) are expanding their agriculture related
activities and are expected to be significant borrowers under the Agricultural
Development Project (ADP).  Since the average TC appears to be well established,
financially sound, and supported and audited by federations, lending to these
cooperatives would be attractive for participating financial institutions (PFIs).
3.          In order to fully tap TC development and investment potential, it
would be advisable for international donors to assist TCs and their regional and
national federations in reviewing the main components of the TC network. Such
a review could identify further cost saving options, training needs,
possibilities of streamlining the network, rehabilitation of weaker units and
investment priorities.   The review undertaken by TCs together with relevant
counterpart organizations in western countries should focus on producing an
operational development strategy for the entire TC network.   Both TCs and
potential lenders would benefit from such a review by demonstrating (i) the
viability of the TC network and most of its individual units, and (ii) placing
proposed investments in the context of the network's overall development.
4.          In spite of their importance, term lending to agriculture production
cooperatives (APCs) is expected to be limited.  PFIs will hesitate to extend
loans to APCs because of inherent high risks, and procedural and legal issues.
However, the Government of Bulgaria will have to accept that (i) APCs are
important agricultural organizations since they cultivate more than 50% of the
agricultural land, and (ii) most individual landowners voluntarily have chosen
to establish APCs. In the dialogue with GOB, the Bank will recommend that GOB
adopt a constructive approach to APC development by providing a conducive
environment for (i) APC members to establish individual farms and increase their
land holdings through leasing, (ii) APC efforts aimed at alleviating structural



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
weaknesses (e.g., recruiting the best farm labor available, irrespective of their
membership status), and (iii) the transformation of APCs into more sustainable
organizations (e.g., companies or service cooperatives).
5.          Agricultural service organizations are only gradually emerging, and
in the next few years are not expected to generate any significant credit demand
for investments.   To (i) respond to the existing needs for improving and
expanding agricultural and rural services, and (ii) tap the potential for
development of efficient service providers, the establishment of a Rural Business
Advisory Network (RBAN) would be an option that could be seriously considered by
GOB, existing farmers,  trade organizations,  and donor organizations.   The
objective of the proposed RBAN would be to become a catalyst for the development
of a multifaceted institutional infrastructure responding to the needs of the
rural population. Specific types of assistance provided by RBAN could include:
(i) assisting farmers and farmer associations to establish RSCs, (ii) supporting
APCs intending to transform into companies or RSCs, and (iii) working with trade
cooperatives in their efforts to expand and improve agricultural services. A
well designed concept for RBAN, enjoying the full support of GOB and major
farmers and cooperative organizations, could be attractive for external grant
funding.
II. Agricultural Production Organizations
6.          The most important farmers organizations in Bulgaria are the new
APCs. After the completion of the ongoing liquidation of collectives, APCs are
expected to control 50 - 70% of the agricultural land. However, the importance
of APCs is expected to diminish over the next few years as landowners leave APCs,
either to farm individually or to lease their land to other farmero.
7.          After assuming power following World War II, the communist GOB
initiated centralized planning schemes that resulted in the expropriation of
private farms and the establishment of state-controlled agriculture.   The
Agrarian Reform Law of 1946 limited land ownership to 30 ha in the mountain
regions and 20 ha elsewhere in the country; the amounts in excess of these limits
were taken over by the state. All of the private holdings were incorporated into
village-based collective farms and the owners were paid nominal rent. By 1950,
when the collectivization process was completed, about 2,000 collective farms
occupied 90% of the cultivable land and state farms the remaining 10%.
8.          In  1965,  in  an  effort  to  promote  larger  scale  agricultural
production, many of the collectives were combined, increasing their average size
from 3 - 4,000 ha to about 25,000 ha. Rent payments to the former landowners
were eliminated and the farmers became simply employees of the collective. The
restructured collectives were called agro-industrial enterprises, each with its
own agro-industrial facilities. In 1987, the structure was reversed; agriculture
was decentralized and the large enterprises were separated into approximately
2,100 village-based producer "cooperatives".   Small areas of land around the
homes of the cooperative members (0.5 to 0.9 ha) were allocated (leased) to the
members for their private cultivation.   The restructured farms continued to



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
provide both productive and social service functions and were responsible for the
provision of salaries and pension benefits for all members.
9.          In February 1991, the law for agricultural land ownership and land
use was passed by the Bulgarian parliament. It ham mince been amended several
times, principally in March 1992. Among others, this law orders the liquidation
of the agricultural collectives involving the distribution to cooperative members
of the land and non-land assets. Land now has to be given back to the previous
owners (or their heirs) who owned the land before the collectivization in the
late 1940. and early 19505. Non-farm assets are distributed among present and
former members (or their heirs) according to shares. The size of each individual
share is being determined in accordance to land and other physical or financial
assets which the owner had pooled in the collective, and his labor contribution.
If a member withdraws from the cooperative, he has the right to receive his share
in the form of physical assets or money. In the case of indivisible assets, the
former member will receive appropriate shares.
10.         The process of liquidating collectives is nearing its completion with
31% of the land restituted at the end of October, 1993.  Less than 5% of the
previous members of collectives decided to use the assets they received for
establishing their own farms. The overwhelming majority of the holders of land
and non-land assets decided to lease their land to newly established agricultural
production cooperatives (APCs), other corporate farming units, and private
farmers.
11.         Since the process of privatizing agriculture in not yet fully
completed, no data is yet available on the final land distribution, as well as
on the number and kind of new production organizations and the number of private
farmers.   However, by extrapolating the present trends of land leases and
emerging organizations, Bulgaria agricultural policy and research institutions
suggest that 50 - 70% of the agricultural land will be cultivated by newly
established APCs.
12.         The emerging dominating role of APCs is seen with skepticism by GOB
and external observers. This skepticism is caused by the resemblance between
APCs and the former collectives.    In several aspects,  however,  APCm  are
significantly different from the former collectives. Firstly, APCs are being
formed voluntarily by its members. There is no party or administration obliging
farmers to farm jointly. Secondly, APC leaders are being elected by the members
and not appointed by outsiders. Thirdly, APCs are much smaller than collectives,
and focus on production activities leaving the social services of former
collectives to GOB and local administration. Therefore, APCs should be accepted
as genuine private sector organizations.
13.         Skepticism, however, is justified while judging the sustainability
of APCs. Worldwide, production cooperatives have a poor performance record and,
therefore,  they hardly exist in western countries.   In other transforming
economies, for example East Germany, where APCs were initially chosen as
successor organizations to collectives, within a year or two many of these APCs
(i) transformed to a different form of organization (e.g. limited liability
companies) or (ii) dissolved or faced bankruptcy.
_ - - - - - - -



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.         In addition, lending to APCs constitutes special risks, including the
following:
Many members see their APCs as temporary organizations by
which their land will be cultivated only until landowners
receive full titles and identifiable plots.  At that time,
those members intend to withdraw their land from APCs. In any
event, APC members can terminate their membership at any time
and withdraw their membership contribution (land and other
assets).
APCs are not fully accepted as legal entities until the final
title deeds are issued to members and individual plots are
fully identified (i.e., in real boundaries).
The present legal regulations require that the land cultivated
by APCs remain in the ownership of its members. Pledging the
land of hundreds of individual landowners as collateral for
the borrowing of an APC is a difficult and time consuming
process. The same applies to the process of foreclosing on
these assets in case of loan default.
*    tUsually APCs choose farm labor and management among members
and not mainly according to qualification, motivation and
performance. These self-imposed limitations on choosing its
key players can handicap the economic performance of APCs.
15.         In view of the many difficulties facing APCs, over the next years
many of these organizations will either lose their members and therefore
dissolve, or transform into a different, more sustainable form of organization.
A more suitable form of organization for corporate farming is shareholding
companies or companies with limited liabilities. Shareholders participating in
these companies are contributing capital in the form of cash or assets. While
contributing assets, shareholders give up their individual ownership rights.
Furthermore, companies tend to recruit professional management staff and labor
according to qualifications, and remunerate them according to performance.
Experience in western countries, however, indicates that any form of corporate
farming finds it difficult to compete with family farming.
16.         If an APC transforms  into another organizational  form  (e.g.,
shareholding company or company with limited liability), the legal regulations
require that the new organization assumes the debts of the previous organization.
APC management and members might be tempted to dissolve an APC before
establishing a new organization in order to avoid burdening the new organization
with the debts of the previous organization.   Because of the strong social
controls in rural areas, however, APCs are less likely to engage in fraudulent
activities than other (urban-based) companies. In any event, banks are expected
to hesitate in extending term funds to APCs since banking institutions know that
APCo are transitional organizations with structural deficiencies.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.         In spite of the weaknesses of APCs, GOB will have to accept that (i)
APCs are important agricultural organizations since they cultivate more than 50%
of the agricultural land, and (ii) most individual landowners voluntarily have
chosen to establish APCs. In its dialogue with GOB, the Bank will recommend that
GOB adopt a constructive approach to APC development by providing a conducive
environment for (i) APC members to establish individual farms and increase their
land holdings through leasing, (ii) APC efforts aimed at alleviating structural
weaknesses (e.g., recruiting the best farm labor available, irrespective of their
membership status), and (iii) the transformation of APCs into more sustainable
organizations (e.g., companies or service cooperatives).
III. Agricultural Service Organizations
18.         So far, only a few thousand of the 1.7 million land restitution
applicants made farming their main occupation. However, the number of individual
farmers is expected to increase significantly once landowners receive fully
documented property rights. In addition to their average small holdings (about
5 ha), many farmers increase their farm size by renting land from owners not
interested in cultivating their land (especially landowners living in cities).
19.         The most  important  constraint  facing  individual  farmers  (and
therefore,  discouraging  other  landowners  from  becoming  farmers)  is  the
unavailability, or if available, the inadequacy of basic services for private
agriculture. The most important services for private farmers are (i) provision
of inputs (seeds, fertilizer, chemicals, animal feed), (ii) machinery services,
(iii) financial services (especially crop and investment financing), (iv)
marketing and processing of agricultural products, and (v) information and
advisory services.
20.         The present scarcity of reliable and efficient services results from
the previous structure of the agricultural sector where state farms and
collectives were (i) big enough to be self-sufficient, not requiring external
services, and (ii) producing for quantity-focused central planning authorities
and therefore not needing the quality oriented services of a market economy.
Furthermore, agro-industry and agri-business is still mainly controlled by state-
owned enterprises (SOEs). Several of these SOEs are expected to be liquidated
during the process of privatization since they are not viable without continued
GOB   subsidies.   SOEs which continue operations after privatization might
significantly reduce their operations in the agriculture sector in order to
become viable. The net effect of SOEs going out of business and privatized SOBs
reducing operations is a significant service gap for agricultural producers.
21.         Part  of  this  gap  will  be  filled  by  commercial  traders  and
entrepreneurs. However, experience in other economies in transition indicates
that initially private sector players are very selective and choose mainly low
risk and highly profitable operations. It may take a decade or two before the
private sector will fully cover the service gap created by the withdrawal of the
state.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
22.         In the medium-term, the remaining service gap can only be filled by
farmers establishing their own organizations. The most common form of farmer
established service organizations are rural service cooperatives (RSCs). Since
privatized SOEs and new private sector players are likely to select the most
profitable activities in the most easily accessible regions, the biggest need for
RSCs will be for less profitable activities (e.g., services to small-scale
farmers) and for the provision of services in remote regions.   In addition,
farmers might want to establish RSCs to compete with other private sector
players.   RSCs perform one of the services required for private agriculture
(single purpose cooperatives, e.g., procurement or marketing cooperatives) or
several services (multi-purpose cooperatives, e.g., procurement/marketing/credit
cooperatives).
23.         The Bulgarian  agricultural  and rural  sectors  have  significant
potential for developing an extensive network of additional service organization
for private agriculture.   This potential is demonstrated at three different
levels, i.e.:
(i)     In many regions associations of private farmers have
emerged who sporadically join resources to purchase
inputs or market outputs.   These joint activities
have the potential to develop into more comprehensive
and permanent activities performed by RSCs.
(ii)    Some of the about 2,000 APCs who are registered or
applied for registration would have a much better
chance to become sustainable organizations by
transforming into service organizations.
(iii)   The existing nationwide network of trade cooperatives
already provides significant services for private
agriculture by purchasing and processing agricultural
products, providing inputs and offering savings and
credit services. Bulgarian trade cooperatives have
many possibilities to expand and improve agricultural
and rural services.
24.         Except for the network of trade cooperatives, RSCs are only beginning
to emerge. Emerging RSCs focus initially on bulking the input purchases and/or
the output marketing of their farm members.  RSCs operating as a rudimentary
group organization could finance their cash flow exclusively with funds provided
on a case by case basis by their members. At a later stage, when RSCs would
start operating as institutions (i.e. trading institutions, purchasing the inputs
and selling the agricultural products on behalf of their members) they would
initially operate with rented facilities (stores, trucks) before investing in
establishing their own facilities. Once RSCs operate as an institution, they
will require seasonal credit to pre-finance their members' input purchases and
crop marketing. Investment funds, however, would be required only at an advanced
institutional stage, i.e., after RSCs have established a credible reputation with
banks and when rented facilities become inadequate.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
25.         To (i) respond to the existing needs for improving and expanding
agricultural and rural services, and (ii) tap the potential for development of
efficient service providers, the establishment of a Rural Business Advisory
Network (RBAN) would be an option that could be seriously considered by GOB,
existing farmers, trade organizations and donor organizations. The Bank could
participate in the establishment of RBAN by organizing some resources from grant
funding agencies once a basic concept for RBAN has been developed and agreed upon
by the major parties concerned.
26.         It would be advisable to establish RBAN as an independently operating
organization, e.g., as a foundation. This independence is important for several
reasons:
it is not a GOB function to provide organizational support and
business advice;
existing  cooperative  federations  and  apex  organizations
require also restructuring and therefore are potential
receivers and not providers of organizational support.
27.         The objective of the proposed RBAN would be to become a catalyst for
the development of a multifaceted institutional infrastructure responding to the
needs of the rural population. In some instances, cooperative organizations will
be the most appropriate forms, while in other instances, other types of
organizational structures will be more suitable. The changes that are taking
place at the producer level will not only result in new structures at the local
levels, but will also require the development of new kinds of organizations at
the regional and national levels. RBAN would support the development and initial
operations of local, regional and national agricultural and rural organizations.
28.         Specific types of assistance provided by RBAN could
include:
(i)     assisting  farmers  and  farmer  associations  to
(1)(2)establish RSCs,
(ii)    supporting APCs intending to transform into companies
or RSCs, and
(iii)   working with trade cooperatives in their efforts to
expand and improve agricultural services.
29.           In view of limited resources, RBAN would have to be very selective
by supporting only those organizations which can serve as examples to other
similar organizations.   Thus,  the selected organizations could initiate a
"multiplier effect".
30.           In addition to providing direct support to a selected number of
rural organizations, RBAN could provide "networking" services for many others.
These networking functions could consist of (i) preliminary identification of the
key constraints facing an organization, (ii) identification of potential non-RBAN



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
support and services (e.g. in-country or external consultancy companies), and,
(iii) coordinating the provision of non-RBAN support.
31.         A well-designed concept for RBAN enjoying the full support of GOB
and major farmers and cooperative organizations could be attractive for external
grant funding.
IV. Trade Cooperatives
32.         Bulgaria has a nationwide network of about 1,100 TCs--usually called
consumer cooperatives--buying, selling and producing mainly food items, as well
as providing inputs for the private farming community and offering rudimentary
savings and credit service to members.
33.         TCs were established in Bulgaria some 100 years ago and are one of
the founding members of the Swiss-based International Cooperative Alliance (ICA).
After 1946, TCs were gradually integrated into the socialized economy, and from
1971 onward, the regional and national federations of TCs were fully subordinated
to the state planning organizations. With the beginning of reform efforts in
1989, TCs initiated the process to free themselves from state influence and to
strengthen member involvement and control. This process is being facilitated by
the cooperative law of July 19, 1991.
34.         A typical TC serves some five to ten villages or a town of some 15 -
40,000 inhabitants and has a few thousand members. In addition to selling basic
consumer products (of which 80% are food products), a TC--or a group of TCs--has
a bakery, a meat processing unit and a soft drink factory, purchases from farmers
agricultural products, and sells agricultural inputs (chemicals, tools and small
machinery). Most of the TCs are well rooted in the rural community, operating
exclusively with self-generated funds, and are financially sound. However, about
18% of TCs (approximately 200) previously followed, too eagerly, GOB proposals
(central planning directives) by investing in over-dimensional agro-processing
facilities, warehouses and stores and, therefore, are now burdened with high
repayment and interest payment installments. Some 30 TCs are in severe financial
difficulties.   The vast majority of TCs,  however,  are in the process of
consolidating their consumer-oriented activities and gradually expanding services
for private agriculture. Over the medium term, the majority group of some 850
TCs are expected to generate significant demand for investment loans.
35.         At the regional level,  TCs are being supported by 34 regional
cooperative federations (RCFs) providing management, legal, accountancy and audit
services. In addition, RCFs operate wholesale, and larger scale agro-processing
and food production facilities.   At the national level, TCs established the
Central  Cooperative  Union   (CCU)  representing  TCs  vis-a-vis  GOB  and
internationally, providing specialized services in support of RCFs, and operating
four food export companies.   As part of the GOB's privatization efforts,
previously appropriated assets (dairy plants, vineyards, tourist facilities) are
being restituted to TCs.   The TC network is owned by more then one million
members, employs a staff of some 55,000, and produced in 1992 a consolidated



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
annual turnover of US$583 million equivalent.   TCs, RCFs, CCU and TC-owned
enterprises established and fully own the Central Cooperative Bank (CCB).
36.         Part of the public and some GOB representatives still believe that
TCs are part of the previous 'social sector".   TCs, especially the national
organization, CCU, would be well advised to rectify this image by explaining that
the entire TC network is based on local cooperatives owned and controlled by
individual members. Furthermore, TC organizations at all levels need to continue
their efforts to refocus their activities on member needs and strengthening
democratic control.   Special attention should be given to TCs in financial
difficulties, since those cases (even though they constitute not more than 18%
of the more than 1,100 local TCs) could damage the reputation of the TC network.
37.         The majority of local TCs, as well as RCFs and CCU appear to be good
potential borrowers for investment financing. A more detailed analysis will have
to confirm that these organizations are adequately managed, financially sound and
are developing feasible investment proposals. Already at this stage, however,
it is evident that TCs, in comparison to the existing and emerging agricultural
service organizations, are well established organizations and not facing any of
the structural issues facing APCs.
38.         In order to fully tap TC development and investment potential, it
would be advisable for international donors to assist TCs and their regional and
national federations in reviewing the main components of the TC network. Such
a review could identify further cost saving options, training needs,
possibilities of streamlining the network, rehabilitation of weaker units and
investment priorities.  The review undertaken by TCs, together with relevant
counterpart organizations in western countries, should focus on producing an
operational development strategy for the entire TC network.   Both TCs and
potential lenders would benefit from such a review by demonstrating (i) the
viability of the TC network and most of its individual units, and (ii) placing
proposed investments in the context of the network's development.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Institutional Development of Participatina Financial Intermediaries
1.    Summary
The envisaged Project would have the objective of training staff of
Bulgarian banks and trainers of one Bulgarian bankers, training institute in
credit analysis. The training would be imparted to six commercial banks that
will serve as on-lending channels for two World Bank-supported credit lines for
industry and agriculture. Training will also be given to trainers of the New
Bulgarian University (NBU) which will assume the role of a counterpart
institution. A total of 33 person-months of expatriate consultant services from
a bank or consulting firm would be needed to undertake the Project in three
phases: Phase I: skill gap analysis and design of training curricula, duration
about two months; Phase II: imparting of training courses, duration about two
months; and Phase III: on-the-job training in each bank and set up evaluation
systems.  Total cost would be about GBP 400,000.   The recipient agency for the
funds will be the Ministry of Finance for the Government of Bulgaria (GOB). The
Project will be supervised jointly by the KHF and the World Bank.
2.    Recommendation
It is recommended that 33 person-months of consultancy in various
expertises for a period of ten months' duration be made available to the GOB
represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB)
costing the equivalent of GBP 330,000 over a period of ten months together with
GBP 70,000 to cover local costs.
3.    Proiect Description
(i)   The financial intermediaries which are to serve as channels for loan
funds-/ from the World Bank will need to establish or improve their capability
to undertake the evaluation of loan applications for investment and export
finance and to supervise the use of the loan proceeds thereafter. To this extent
they will have to create appropriate units in their Credit or Project Evaluation
Departments which possess the necessary skills to (a) prepare or review
1  Participating banks under the Private Investment and Export Finance Project (PIEF) are: First Private
Bank, Tourist Sport Bank, and InternationaL Bank for Investments and Development. Participating banks
under the AgricuLtural Development Project (ADP) will be: Dobrudja CommerciaL Bank, Central Cooperative
Bank and Postbank. The three PIEF banks have expressed interest to participate also in the ADP.



- 1i2 -
ANNEX3
Page 2
feasibility studies for all types of green field, modernization or expansion
investments in industry and agroindustry; (b) prepare or review investment models
and crop budgets for investment in primary agricultural production; (c) prepare
export financing transactions including the preparation of all necessary
documentation; and (d) supervise the implementation of investment projects
financed with medium- and long-term loans and the adequate utilization of short-
term export finance.
(ii) The main objective of the Project is to provide each bank with the
technical assistance required to successfully participate in one or both of the
above World Bank-supported credit lines in the framework of the transition of the
banking, enterprise and agricultural sectors towards a competitive environment.
The present terms of reference will be refined/modified in consultation with the
NBU (see sections 5 and 9) and the World Bank after the completion of each of the
phases of consultancy outlined in section 10 below and after taking full
consideration of the findings of the previous phase.
(iii) It is envisaged that the consultancy services will be provided by a
reputable foreign bank or consulting/auditing firm under a contractual
arrangement. The bank or consulting/auditing firm will be hereinafter referred
to as "the Consultant".
(iv)   The services required under this program are expected to be provided
by four consultants, a banking and project evaluation specialist, an export trade
financing specialist, a financial economist and an agricultural credit
specialist. Training of counterpart staff in the NBU will form an important part
of the Consultant's duties. It is envisaged that certain specialized services
will additionally be provided by short-term consultants, e.g., in the fields of
skill gap analysis, highly specialized technical fields of banking, training
methodology, marketing, etc. as deemed necessary.
4.    Backaround
(i)   In 1987, the banking system in Bulgaria was converted into a two-tier
banking system, under which the BNB retained only typical central banking
activities.   Other banking activities were initially transferred to a network
of more than 60 state-owned commercial banks.  For this purpose the previous
branches of BNB were converted into independent banks. Subsequently, private
banks were founded and currently 16 licenses for private banks have been granted.
(ii) In March 1992, a comprehensive banking law was passed which defines
the activities of banks and empowers the BNB to supervise and regulate specific
bank activities. Through this legislation, all banks were granted permission to
accept deposits, grant loans, buy and sell foreign currency, precious metals and
securities, and act as intermediaries for investment funds. In line with the
agreements reached under the World Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL),
prudential regulations have been drafted by BNB and thereafter adopted covering:
(i) bank licensing; (ii) asset classification and provisioning; (iii) asset
concentration; (iv) lending limits; (iv) capital adequacy; (v) risk management
and internal control; and (vi) money laundering. The first of these was issued



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
in January 1993, the remaining five became effective in the second half of 1993.
(iii) The GOB, in step with the preparation of a World Bank-supported
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL), undertook measures to
reform the state-owned banks which hold high levels of non-performing loans of
state enterprises. In January 1992, the Banking Consolidation Company (BCC) was
founded to undertake the merger and ultimately the privatization of state-owned
banks the capital of which was transferred to BCC. The merger process started
at the beginning of 1993 and is expected to be completed by the end of 1993. It
will have to be followed by restructuring of the banks based on the findings of
diagnostic audits.
(iv) In parallel to the above efforts, the World Bank is about to make
available to GOB two credit lines to meet the most urgent needs for investment
in the industrial and agricultural sectors and provide much needed export
finance. The first of these, the Private Investment and Export Finance Project
(PIEF, amounting to US$55 million), approved in June 1993, provides credit for
industry including agroindustry and supports export by financing critical imports
for the manufacturing industry that manufactures for export. The second, the
Agricultural Development Project (ADP, amounting to Us$50 million), will make
available investment credit for agroindustry (processing, trade, and services)
and for primary agricultural production. This second loan has been appraised in
November 1993, negotiated in April 1994 and is expected to be approved by June
1994.
5.    Relevance to the Economic Proaram
(i)   The need for the training of banks' staff has been explained in
sections 3 and 4 above.   The KHF has already been involved in bank training in
earlier years by funding training courses for banks in 1992 and by carrying out
for the Central Cooperative Bank (CCB) a study covering its involvement in and
the cooperation with the cooperative sector.  Also for CCB, a long-term adviser
has been approved who will take up his assignment in June of 1994. The proposed
involvement of KHF in the context of two World Bank-supported credit lines would
be a logical continuation of these activities.
(ii) Currently, bank training is made available by the International
Banking Institute (IBI), a local institute which is owned by BND and the
commercial banks. IBI has the disadvantage, however, of not having permanent
lecturers on its staff, so that lecturers or translators have to be recruited
from outside. EU-PHARE plans to become active in banking training specifically
related to the agricultural sector.   However, this type of training is linked
to the disbursement of a ECU 7 million credit line and it is not certain when the
arrangements for the credit line will be agreed upon.
6.    Economic Justification
Not applicable.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
7.    Social and Environmental Aspects
The Project will have an indirect impact on unemployment in Bulgaria by
facilitating and increasing the flow of credit funds to the industrial and
agricultural sectors for medium- and long-term investments which would generate
additional employment. In particular in the agriculture sector investment is
needed because after the land restitution to previous owners large numbers of
small landholders have emerged or will emerge in the immediate future who, in
order to become viable, will be forced to create new structures in the private
sector to cultivate their land, e.g., production and service cooperatives,
private companies or informal groupings.    The training effort should also
include environmental analysis within the framework of the main topic of credit
analysis.   There would be a specific gender impact because the Bulgarian banks
have very high percentages of female staff, some banks exceed a ratio of 80%.
8.    Prolect Financino
The Project envisages the financing of 33 person-months of international
consultants.   Total cost including airfare and overhead for the consultants is
expected to be GBP 330,000. This would be supplemented by local cost of GBP
70,000. The total amount of GBP would be financed by KHF.
9.    Institutional Appraisal
(i)   The NBU has been selected as counterpart institution.  Appropriate
covenants for the recruitment of permanent lecturers should be incorporated in
the agreement to be concluded with it so that a long-term benefit resulting from
on-the-job training of local counterparts could be ensured. NBU has indicated
its willingness to adopt a flexible approach to any program that would be
undertaken with its assistance. Estimated costs for the program and support by
NBU are included in Appendix I. The selection of IBI would have the advantage
that the Project would be operated by an organization that has trained lecturers
at its disposal and could thus start work immediately.
10.   Arranoements for Imolementation
(i)   The services of the Consultant will be provided in four distinct
phases as follows:
Phase 1:    Brief review of all participating banks on an individual basis to
take stock of (a) existing institutional capability and practices to carry out
the tasks listed under para 5 above, including number of staff assigned for it;
(b) skill gap analysis of staff in each individual bank in terms of quality of
past work in the field of financial, economic and technical evaluation, an the
case may be; (c) reaching agreement with the Management of each participating
bank on number of staff to be trained or retrained as the outflow of the expected
scope of investment lending for industry and primary agriculture to meet the
needs of headquarters and branches. In calculating the number of staff needed
to carry out the required evaluation functions, the estimate of each bank's



- 45 -
ANN'EX 3
Page 5
anticipated pipeline of projects will be taken into consideration. Based on the
agreements reached with the banks' managements as described above, the program,
curricula and training material for the training seminars to be held in Sofia
will be worked out.
On the assumption that this evaluation will last one to two weeks in each
bank, Phase 1 is expected to last six to 12 weeks.
Phase 2:    Various training seminars will be conducted,  including but not
limited to: a) financial analysis of industrial and agroindustry projects; b)
economic analysis of industrial and agroindustry project; c) techniques in
privatization of enterprises, d) analysis of markets and market projections; *)
preparation of export finance transactions; f) preparation of farm models and
crop budgets; and g) environmental assessment. The training seminars will cover
the whole gamut of project finance, project appraisal, export finance and
supervision standards and procedures. Appraisal techniques will include analysis
of projects' capacity to generate cash flows under different scenarios based on
the probable macro layout of the business or farm operation, the particular
sector in which the Project operates and the overall economy. It will include
the calculation of internal rates of return for financial and economic analysis,
debt service capacity of projects, financial projections and other financial
ratios. Also important will be the in-depth analysis of demand for products and
services in the target market, technical feasibility of envisaged projects and
expertise and financials of project sponsors.  The training will have to be
imparted in a way that takes care of the various skill levels of participating
bank staff.
This phase is expected to last two months durina which. if necessary.
Parallel or consecutive seminars will be offered. It can also be envisaged that
the second phase could start operations once the first phase has been completed
in at least two banks.
Phase 3     During this phase the individual training needs of each participating
bank will be met and the unit that will be established or reinforced for the
purposes of the two World Bank-supported projects or other projects will be
finally shaped.  Procedures for the evaluation of loan applications will be
established, responsibilities for processing of loan applications determined and
agreed and a number of incoming applications processed as on-the-job training.
Each participating bank will require this type of individual training for a
period of not less than two months until all required systems are in place and
functioning.  The total duration of this phase will therefore depend on the
number of staff in the participating banks that need training and the number of
consultant  specialists  and  counterpart  specialists  that  can  be  made
available/funded for this purpose.
On the assumptions that:
(ii) funding can be obtained for four expatriate specialists with eight
specialist counterparts provided by the International Banking
Institute, or any other local organization that will provide
counterpart services,



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
(iii) six banks will participate initially in the two projects; and
(iv) each bank during the two months duration would at any time have two
expatriate and two counterpart specialists working in its premises;
The total duration of this Phase would be six monthsV.
Phase 4:    An optional fourth phase could involve technical assistance to
participating banks in other areas of banking, e.g., establishment of Management
Information Systems, asset/liability management, treasury functions, branch
operations, automation and computerization etc. Person-months requirements for
much activities are not included in the current calculations.
11.   Arranaements for Operation of the Completed Prolect
The Project would provide a complete training cycle for bank staff. The
twin objectives are training of bank staff and training of trainers. If the
second objective can be reached through the association with the NBU, repeater
and refresher courses could be imparted by the local training staff.
12.   Monitorina of the Prolect
(i) Monitoring or supervising the Project would be of crucial importance
for its succeos. The World Bank would support the KHF in undertaking this task
in conjunction with the supervision of its two credit lines, the PIEF and the
ADP. During the first year of implementation of these lines, there will be at
least three supervision missions from the World Bank's Washington headquarters
for each of the projects.
(ii) The desk officer for KHF for Bulgaria will act as project coordinator.
The KHF Financial Adviser and Banking Training Coordinator will personally obtain
feedback from participating banks and course participants.  In addition, the
British Embassy, Sofia, will monitor progress locally on a regular basis.
13.   Risks and Uncertainties
Main risks that could cause failure to achieve the program objectives are:
-     Lack of commitment by the participating banks to avail themselves of
the training and to permit their staff to be trained.  Since the
training is a mandatory requirement under the two credit lines of
>  There would be two options regarding the organization of this phase: (i) Work wouLd start In two banks
simulttaously and be copleted after two months, ihen it would shfft to two other bank, etc. (ii)
Phase 2 wouLd be ilmemented in alL banks simulttawously; i.e., short phases of work followed by short
phases of interruption. This would have the advantage that the banks would be under supervision nd
training for a longer period.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
the World Bank, this risk is not considered very important. Lack of
commitment in training would mean no World Bank funds for
disbursement to potential borrowers.
Lack of a suitable counterpart institution:   this is indeed a
serious risk that could impede the work of the consultants or even
render it ineffective. It is expected, however, that the selection
of NBU will result in a contractual agreement very soon and that,
due to the availability of trained counterparts, its performance
will be quite satisfactory. The performance of the counterpart
institution has to be continually mupervised.
14.   Prolect Framework
PROJECT FRAMEWORK
Project Structure              Indicators of    How Indicators   Assumptions,
Achievement and  Can Be             Risks and
Value             Quantified Or    Conditions
Assessed
Wider Objectives:              Banks which       Require report   Central Bank
completed         on consultants'  and
Project will help readying    training, have   performance in   participating
banking sector to enter        set up units,    monthly             banks must be
field of investment            and made          reports.           fully
lending, deepen knowledge      investment        Obtain numbers   committed to
of emerging private banking   loans.  Loan       of loan            objectives of
sector in international        applications      applications       training and
lending criteria.  This        approved and      approved and       permit
would foster sound             amounts           amounts            withdrawal of
investment in private          disbursed from   disbursed from   funds under
industry and agriculture       World Bank        World Bank.        loans of
and thus help the                                                   World Bank.
transition process to a                                             Private
market economy.                                                     sector
development
must remain
priority,
economy must
stabilize
further.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
PROJECT FRAMEWORK
Project Structure              Indicators of    How Indicators   Assumptions,
Achievement and  Can Be             Risks and
Value            Quantified Or    Conditions
Assessed
Immediate Objectives:         Trainers for      Consultants'      Cooperation
NBU trained      reports,           between
Project will (i) train        through           information        consultants
staff of six banks (five      participation    from World         and counter-
private, one Govt-owned) in  in program,        Bank,             part staff,
appraisal of loan             bank staff        information       commitment of
applications and              interviewed for  from banks on    banks,
supervision of loans, and     skill gap         portfolio and    investment
(ii) set up appraisal and    analysis, staff  loan recovery,   climate.
supervision units in each    trained loans                        Status of
bank.  Benefits will be       made by banks,                       economy.
that (i) loans will be made  quality of
for sound investment; and    portfolio.
(ii) banks would diversify
into term loans and develop
healthy portfolio.
Immediate benefits would
flow to banks, New
Bulgarian University (NBU)
and investors, wider
benefits to global economy.
Outputs:                                        same as above    Investment
Appraisal units set up on six banks.  Eight                        climate must
local counterparts trained in bank training                       be positive,
through on-the-job training.  About 90 staff                       access to
of participating banks trained                                     foreign
exchange must
be ensured
for debt
service by
borrowers.



- 49 -
ANNX 3
Page 9
PROJECT FRAMEWORK
Project Structure             Indicators of    How Indicators   Assumptions,
Achievement and  Can Be             Risks and
Value            Quantified Or    Conditions
Assessed
Inputs:                                         Monthly reports  Approval by
ODA to provide four long-term consultants       by consultants,  Government of
and some short-term consultants for 33          reports by NBU,  Bulgaria of
staff-months (am) as follows:  Banking and      reports and       training
project evaluation specialist (team leader)    feedback from    program.
10 am, trade financing specialist 6 sm,         banks, reports   Approval by
financial economist 6 sm, agricultural          by World Bank.   GOB of loan
credit specialist 6 sm, short-term                                from World
consultancy 5 sm.  This is to cost L330,000                       Bank.
over 10 months.  The New Bulgarian                                Approval of
University would provide local counterpart                         loan by World
services including eight local qualified                          Bank Board.
staff to carry out the program jointly with                       Meeting by
the expatriate consultants, training                              GOB of
facilities, translation, text books, etc.,                        conditions of
at a cost of L70,000 over the same period.                        effectiveness
The recipient. i.e.. the Participating banks                      to make loan
would oblige their staff to participate in                        effective.
the training and would make available in-
house facilities as and when required.
The World Bank would, from time to time,
review progress in the implementation of the
program through its supervision missions
from headquarters and its Resident Mission
in Sofia.
Appendices
Appendix I: Cost Tables for Institutional Development
Appendix II: Person-month Requirements and Envisaged Time Frame



BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DLVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Institutional Development          Unit  |tv        t yUnit Cost Base Costs  Prices w. Contin
1FY94 I FY95 |            FY95   I       FY95
Equipment for CCB
Armored Vehicles 1)             pc              0     4  $75,000    $300,000          $303,900
Computer Equipment and Software 2 lump sum     0    10  $50,000    $500,000           $506,500
Miscellaneous Equipment 3)      lump sum       0    10 $20,000    S200.000            S202.600
Total Equipment                                                   $1.000.000        $1.013.000
Equipment for BPB
Armored Vehicles 1)             pc              0     2  $75,000    $150,000          $151,950
Computer Equipment and Software 2 lump sum     0    14  $50,000    $700,000           $709,100
Miscellaneous Equipment 3)      lump sum       0    10 $20,000    S200.000            S202.600
Total Equipment                                                    S1.050.000       S1.063.650
Equipment for DCB
Armored Vehicles 1)             Pc              0     3 $75,000    $225,000           $227,925
Computer Equipment and Software 2 lump sum      0     5 $50,000    $250,000           $253,250
Miscellaneous Equipment 3)      lump sum        0     4  $20,000     S80.000           S81.040
Total Equipment                                                     S555.000          S562.215
Eauipment for Other Banks
Armored Vehicles 1)             Pc             0      6  $75,000    $450,000          $455,850
Computer Equipment and Software 2 lump sum     0     12  $50,000    $600,000          $607,800
Miscellaneous Equipment 3)      lump sum       0    14  $20,000    $280,000           $283,640
Total Equipment                                                    S1.330.000        S1.347.290
Grand Total                                                        S3.935.000        S3.986.155
Amount to Be Financed
Loan Amount                                                                          $2,989,616                     
$3,000,000  
1) Armored vehicles are for transport of money to and from rural branches, 4 for CCB, 2 for BPB, 3 for DCB,
and 6 for other banks
2) Computer equipment and software, e.g., PCs, modems, scanners, optical discs and other related
10 batches for CCB, 14 for BPB, 5 for DCB and 12 for other banks
3) Miscellaneous equipment, 10 batches for CCB, 10 for BPB, 4 for DCB and 14 for other banks
10 for BPB, 4 for DCB and 14 for other banks



BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAI SAL RZPORT
Total Cost
Institutional Development       Unit     Qty. I Qty. I Unit Cost Base Costs  Base Costs       Total | Prices w. Conting. Prices w. Conting    Total with
| FY94 I FY95 I       |  FY94   |  FY95  lBase Costs |        FY94      I     FY95      |  Conting.
A. Technical Assistance
Banking Specialist,Teamleader  Staff-months  1    9  $15,500    $15,500   $139,500   $155,000           $15,500        $141,314      $156,814
Trade Financing Specialist  Staff-months    0     6  $15,500          $0    $93,000    $93,000               $0         $94,209       $94,209
Financial Economist         Staff-months    0     6  $15,500          S0    $93,000    $93,000               $0         $94,209       $94,209
Agricultural Credit Specialist    Staff-months  0  6  $15,500         $0    $93,000    $93,000               $0         $94,209       $94,209
Short-term Consultancy     Staff-months     1     4  $15,500    $15.500    $62,000    $77 500           $15 500         $62.806       $78.306
Subtotal Expatriates       Staff-months     2    31              $31,000   $480,500   $511,500          S31.000        $486,746      $517,746
Cost of Local Support      Percent         15    15               S6 200    $96.100   $102.300           $6 200         S97.349      $103 549
Total Techn. Assistance                                           $37,200   $576,600   $613,800          $37,200        $584,096     $621,296
B. Equlment
Armored Vehicles 1)         pc              0    15  $75,000          $0  $1,125,000  $1.125,000             $0       $1,139,625    $1,139,625   @
Computer Equipt.and Software 2) lumpsum     0    41  $50,000          S0  $2,050,000  $2,050,000             $0       $2,076,650    $2,076,650
Miscellaneous Equipment 3)    lump sum      0    38  $20,000          $0   $760,000   $760,000               $0         $769,880     S769,880
Total Equipment                             _3.935.000  $8_43.800                                            $0       $3.986A55    $3 986 155
Total Institutional Development                                    37200   4511600   9097600              37200        4570251       4607451
Amount to be Financed                                                                                                            | 2,989,616
Loan Amount                                                                                                                      | 3,000,000
1) Armored vehicles are for transport of money to and from rural branches, 4 for CCB, 2 for BPB, 3 for DCB,
and 6 for other banks
2) Computer equipment and software, e.g., PCs, modems, scanners, optical discs and other related
10 batches for CCB, 14 for BPB, 5 for DCB and 12 foq other banks                                                                            >
3) Miscellaneous equipment, 10 batches for CCB, 10 for BPB, 4 for DCB and 14 for other banks                                                  X
10 for BPB, 4 for DCB and 14 for other banks                                                                                             :lx  c



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
A&p2ndix II
Person-month Recuirementi
Phase 1: Banking and project evaluation
specialist (team leader):                          2 m/m
short-term consultancy                             1 m/m
Subtotal                                    3 m/m
Phase 2: Banking and project evaluation
specialist (team leader):                          2 m/m
trade financing specialist                         2 m/m
financial economist                                2 m/m
agricultural credit specialist                     2 m/m
short-term consultancy                             2 m/m
Subtotal                                    10 m/m
Phase 3: Banking and project evaluation
specialist (team leader):                          6 m/m
trade financing specialist                         4 m/m
financial economist                                4 m/m
agricultural credit specialist                     4 m/m
short-term consultancy                             2 m/m
Subtotal                                    20 m/m
Total                                       33 m/m



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 1
BULGARIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Pro-ect Implementation and Supervision Arrangements
1.          A key objective of project implementation is to gradually increase
the decision-making authority of the participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs) for granting sub-loans under the project and decrease the level of Bank
supervision to a degree applied to well performing commercial banks in a market-
oriented environment. Specific responsibilities of parties involved in project
implementation and supervision are defined below. They are similar to
arrangements applicable under the Private Investment and Export Finance Project
(Ln. 3631-BU), a parallel credit line operation.
Bulgarian Institutions
2.          Bulgarian National Bank (BNBL. Acting on behalf of the government,
the responsibilities of BNB will entail: (i) informing the Bank about compliance
of PFIo with prudential regulations; (ii) recommending prospective PFIs to the
Bank for participation; (iii) consulting with the Bank and the PFIs regarding
onlending rates and spreads from BNB to PFIs; (iv) operating two special account.
(one in US dollars and one in Deutsche Mark) to facilitate disbursements; and (v)
submitting audits of the two special accounts to the Bank by June 30 each year.
3.          Participatina Financial Intermediaries. While the project will start
with two PFIs, it is expected that additional commercial banks will meet criteria
for participation in the course of project implementation (paras. 4.08-4.14,
SAR). The PFIs are expected to acquire or supplement their skills and build-up
experience to cope successfully with market-oriented lending activities. They
will bear the full credit risk of their sub-loans. In addition to continued
compliance with general criteria for participation (paras. 4.13-4.14, SAR),
specific responsibilities of PFIs will entail: (i) applying their respective
Policy and Corporate Strategy Statements in day-to-day operations; i.e.,
marketing project funds, reviewing and approving sub-loan applications,
supervising the implementation of sub-loans. (ii) submitting reports to the Bank
on commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under the project semi-
annually (by June 30 and December 31); (iii) submitting annual audit reports to
the Bank by June 30 each year, including a special opinion regarding
reimbursements made using the Statement of Expenditure procedure and a
certification of compliance with financial covenants agreed to under the project.



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 2
4.          Technical Assistance  ITA) and SuiPort to PFI8.   TA by foreign
consultants will be made available through the British Know-How Fund to help PFIs
acquire or supplement skills needed to effectively intermediate Bank funds (Annex
3, SAR). TA would consist of three phases. First, a review of PFIs to assess
their current capabilities and practices, identify skill gaps, reach agreement
on the scope of training required, and prepare the curricula and training
materials. This phase is expected to last about six to 12 weeks. Second, formal
classroom training will commence offering parallel or consecutive seminars to
last about 8 weeks. Third, TA package will be completed by on-the-job training
and the installation of the required systems in each PFI within six months.
Subsequently within six months after its completion, TA impact will be evaluated
and a new package may be designed for prospective PFIo. Additional support would
be made available as required, based on feedback from Bank supervision.
5.          Consulting Services. Private consulting companies, some with foreign
partners, are increasingly involved in assisting enterprises with preparation of
business plans and feasibility studies. This trend would be reinforced under the
project. Consultants will be invited to a special "project launch workshop" and
be briefed on requirements for Bank-financed projects (e.g. procurement).
Subsequently, consultants will be invited to briefings on project implementation
during regular Bank supervision missions. A roster of consulting companies would
be maintained in the Bank Resident Mission, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the
PFIs. In order to assess the performance of these consultants, the Bank would
help to formalize an independent rating service(s) of consultants in the course
of project implementation.
6.          Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  Sustained progress of government
policy toward market-oriented agriculture is essential for successful project
implementation. MOA would carry out an annual review with the Bank regarding the
progress of agricultural reforms including: (i) the status of land restitution
and restoration of property rights to other assets; (ii) price and trade policy;
and (iii) finance and state budget policy. The agenda of the review will be based
on a Supplemental Letter (Annex 4, LA) and a report "The Status of Bulgarian
Agriculture" submitted annually by the Minister of Agriculture to the Council of
Ministers.
The World Bank
7.          Protect Launch Workshoo.   Bulgarian institutions (BNB, MOA, PFIs,
consultants and potential beneficiaries) will be briefed on conditions and
procedures under the project in a two-day project launch workshop tentatively
scheduled for September 1994 at the Resident Mission in Sofia. A joint session
for all participating institutions and separate sessions for PFIs and consultants
will be held. The agenda for the opening joint session will reiterate: (i)
project objectives and target beneficiaries; (ii) sub-project eligibility
criteria and sub-loan application procedures; (iii) eligibility criteria for
PFIs; (iv) terms and conditions for onlending from BNB to PFIs; (v) formats of
business plan. and feasibility studies; and (vi) loan administration procedures
including  procurement,  disbursements,  operating  of  special  accounts,  and
reporting requirements.



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 3
8.          A session for the PFIs and PFI candidates will  focus on:  (i)
eligibility and compliance status with participation criteria for PFIs; (ii)
criteria and procedures for identification, appraisal, approval and supervision
of sub-projects; (iii) free limits for granting sub-loans; (iv) subloan documents
and record keeping.
9.          A session for consultants involved in preparation of business plans
and feasibility studies for project beneficiaries will focus on: (i)
characteristics and eligibility of project beneficiaries; (ii) format and content
for business plans and feasibility studies; (iii) financial analysis and
financial plans for sub-loans; (iv) writing of technical specifications for
equipment and assistance with procurement; (v) other assistance to beneficiaries
in seeking financing; and (vi) coordination of future activities in project
implementation with the Bank.
10.         Mid-Term Review. A Bank review of the above project implementation
arrangements will be undertaken by June 1996. It will take into account initial
implementation experience and make appropriate adjustments.
11.         Regular Bank Supervision would entail: (i) review of procedures for
approval of sub-loans recommended by PFIs; (ii) prior review of credit
applications, the establishment and changes in free limits, and subsequent post-
review of credit applications; (iii) effectiveness of TA provided to PFIs; and
(iv) monitoring  progress of government policy actions aimed at liberalizing
agricultural prices and trade. In addition, new PFIs are likely to be appraised
for participation under the project during Bank supervision. On average, about
three Bank supervision mission and 20 staff-weeks will be required annually.
However, some front-loading of supervision input would be justified particularly
due to the time-consuming appraisal of new PFIs. Some of that cost may be shared
with other ongoing Bank credit-line operations. Supervision intensity should
diminish to about 10-12 staff-weeks toward the end of project lifetime.
12.         Preparation of Proiect Completion Report.  After completion of the
project and within six months of the closing date of June 30, 1998, the BNB, in
collaboration with the PFIs and the government would prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the execution of the project, its cost and benefits, and its
overall development impact as measured against original project objectives. The
report will be used in the preparation of the completion report which would focus
on the economic impact of the sub-loans and the performance of the PFIs and
agencies in discharging their respective obligations under the project.






IBRD 25962
00 'dDanube Rwer
ov4asavAr  ;                                 R O  M  A N  I A                                 BcT.rw             -             
.,0p30.  00r of n t ho w n O t  Of  *.    T . C -                                                                                                          stl 1
ony icdo 'nt on sa.ilhN,yol  w-42 Et                                                                                                                                       a  i.gi  '  _  C
Oo oOnyhndc . o,, n^.~                                               }                                                                    AoGREECE ^ 55
ooy.Odol..,.,.i}2 hs2ol/2^2   
o.o~~o.prOoo.otscoh          To                  G~~~u    &PhFE                                              2se
Ar   |                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS~~~~~)r 
ROhMANIA                                                            B UL GA R IA
(tFEDDRE RE                    B,oO             AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
F EDO  . R E P
S oBoL gOARIA                        Elevations in Meters               Highwes  ohoo Caio - SEA C
.  TYR                 TU-u REEY          -    2200                        Main Roads                     03  District Centers                                                        A1GA;.'ARA
8  i5 ~~ (5 4o .                     .      600                         Railroads           o              Selected Cities                           - ~
'- 0F-    Rvr
Y   G      S   L A V IrTURKEY                      200                     In tern tonl Bandories                 Rvers                        .       27
~.}GREECE   '_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                       2e                                                 - r    J N  1 9
T. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     



