FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 1 18a-JM
JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF
A ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 8, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean
Projects Department
| This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completenes of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                    = Jamaican dollar (J$)
US$1.00                          - J$ 0.91
J$ 1                             = US$ 1.10
J$ 1 million                     = US$ 1.1 million
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
System of Weights and Measures:  British
Metric                           British/US Equivalent
1 feet (ft)                      = 0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                      - 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)              = 2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 pound (lb)                     = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
Abbreviations and AcronYms
ADT         - Average Daily Traffic
CIDA        - Canadian International Development Agency
DC          - Directorate of Construction
DEMS        - Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services
DM          - Directorate of Maintenance
DMP         - Directorate of Major-Projects
DTS         - Directorate of Technical Services
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GNP         - Gross National Product
JRC         - Jamaica Railways Corporation
LVI         - Lamarre Valois International Ltd., Consulting
Engineers
MDW         - Ministry of Works
NEC         - National Economic Council
TPOS        - T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners, Consulting Engineers
UNDP        - United Nations Development Program
USAID       - United States Agency for International Development



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINITENANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTLNTS
Page No.
SUMIRARY AND CONCLUSIONS. 
1.  INTRODUCTION ..............................................
2. B6ACKGROUND ..
A.  The Country and its Lconom,ly .
B.  The Transport Sector ..................................    3
C.  Transport Policy and Coordination ...........               5
3.  THE ROAD SYSTEM AEND ROAD TRANSPORT ..... ..................     6
A.   The Road Network and its Traffic ..      ...................  6
B.  Administration:  The Ministry of tWorks .....   ..........    8
C.  Road Planning and Financing ..8..................    8
D.  Engineering and Construction        ........................    10
E.  Mlaintenance ........................                      10
4.  TIIE PROJECT           ..    ..     ............12
A. Project Description    ..12
B.  Road Improvement and Maintenance                .          13
C.  Provision of Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment       14
D.  Restructuring of Directorate of Maintenance;
Improvement of Staffing and Procedures.                 14
E. Technical Assistance    ..16
F. Cost Estimates    ..17
G. Financing and Disbursement    .           .18
H. Execution... 1
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .......................................   20
A.   General     ....................... .......................  20
B.  Asphaltic Overlay ....................................   20
C.  Asphaltic Resealing ................ .. ................   23
D.  Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment ..............   23
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   24
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Mr. W. Sikorski (Engineer) and
Miss I. Pastor (Economist) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



Table of Contents - Continued
TABLES
1.  Road Network (1972)
2 .  Lxpenditure on Roads 1965-1973
3.  Road User Charges
4.  Details of Proposed Asphaltic Overlay Work
5.  List of New Equipment and Estimate of Cost
6.  Technical Assistance to be Provided by the Consultants 1973-1Y973
7.  Project Cost Estimates
,. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.  lnitial Traffic Levels and Growth
10.  Typical Vehicle Operating Costs
11.  Interpolated Values of Vehicle Operating Costs for Road Classes
Project Roads
12,  R?ates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
13.  Economic Evaluation of Asphialtic Resealing
ANN2EX
1.   Road Traffic Law  anzn  Regulations
ChARTS
1.   Structure of the tinistry of iNorlks
2.   Structure of the Directorate of laintenance
:.AP
Jarilaic. -- Road Improvement and Maintenance Project, IBRD 10337



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD IMPROVEMIENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The road system in Jamaica is generally adequate in extent; in
recent years, however, maintenance has not kept pace with the needs of the
system, particularly those of the paved roads. Moreover, some of the paved
roads are reaching the point whiere, with increasing traffic, strengthening,
is becoming necessary.
ii.       Road maintenance and the institution-responsible for it have been
studied in recent years, first in 1968 as part of a countrywide transporta-
tion survey carried out by the Canadian consultants Lamarre Valois Interna-
tional Ltd. (LVI), with financing by the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA), and then in 1972 by the UK consultants T.P. O'Sullivan and
Partners (TPOS) in a study financed by the United Nations Development Pro-
gram (UNDP), for which the Bank was executing agency. The CIDA-financed
study recommended, inter alia, a major resurfacing program for paved roads
to prevent further deterioration of pavements, and improvement in the struc-
ture and procedures of the road maintenance organization. The UNDP-financed
study went a step further, recommending specific road improvement and mainte-
nance, and made definite suggestions for improvement of the maintenance or-
ganization.
iii.      The proposed project is based largely on the results of this latter
study and has, therefore, a twofold thrust - physical improvement of the
road network, and organizational improvement of the road maintenance organ-
ization. As regards road improvement, the project envisages strengthening
of about 440 miles of major roads with asphaltic overlay and resealing of a
further 250 miles on which the pavements, although not yet overstressed,
would deteriorate and require costly rehabilitation without this treatment.
No major improvement of the geometric features of the road network are en-
visaged, but particularly bad features, such as very sharp bends and dis-
torted cross-section profiles, would be improved in conjunction with these
works.
iv.       Improvement of the maintenance organization envisaged comprises
(a) a change in line management structure which would have the effect of
introducing professional engineers into the maintenance organization; (b)
introduction of rational costing and better planning of maintenance optra-
tions; and (c) a modest increase in the management staff of the organiza-
tion. Also under this heading, thie project would provide equipment for
routine maintenance operations and a small quantity of tools for the work-
shops which service such equipment. A substantial provision for technical
assistance is included to help implement all aspects of the project.



- 2ii -
v.        Execution would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Works (MOW)
and would extend over a period of about five years. This period is determinedi
largely by the time required for the civil works; these, in turn, have been
spread out to reduce the load on budgetary funds to an acceptable leve' and
to help ensure a more even workload on the resources of the iMinistry and the
contracting industry.
vi.       The asphaltic overlay would be procured by international competi-
tive bidding, following the Bank's guidelines, in two tranches of about US$3
million each. There would be a number of contracts in each tranche, but the
work would be packaged, and bidders would have the opportunity to bid for any
part or for thie whole package. The asphaltic resealing would be bid in a
similar manner, but, since the work is rather scattered and small scale, it
would probably be unattractive to firms not already established in the couni-
try; this work would therefore be advertised only in Jamaica. The road main-
tenance equipment would be procured by international competitive bidding,
following international advertising.
vii.      The project would benefit all parts of the cotuntry.  The asphaltic
overlay would be applied primarily to the circumferential road and a few
major cross-country routes -  these constitute the most heavily trafficked
roads in the country. The resealing work and the improvement of day-to-day
maintenance would have its effect primarily on the secondary road network.
Not all of the benefits are readily quantifiable, and the economic evalua-
tion concentrates on the proposed investment in asphaltic overlay (represent-
ing over 40,% of project costs).  For the overlav, the econoraic return is in
excess of 50%; even if significant factors in the evaluation are varied to
represent more pessimistic values, the economic return is still acceptable.
For the resealing, on the assumption that failure would take place in four
years' time if the pavements were not resealed in the near future, the
economic return on the proposed resealing is conservatively estimated at
about 19%. For the equipment included in the project, a very modest re-
duction (of the order of a few percent) in vehicle operating costs result-
ing from the use of this equipment would be sufficient to provide an economic
return of 10% on the investment in equipment. Together these three items --
overlay, resealing and provision of equipment -- account for over 90% of
project cost.
viii.     The project is estimated to cost US$17.3 million equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of US$9.3 million. The project would provide
a satisfactory basis for a Bank loan to cover this foreign exchange component
for a term of 15 years, including a five-year period of grace.



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MTAINTENANCE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTIGN
1.01      The Government of Jamaica has requested the Bank to help finance a
project comprising road improvement and maintenance, institutional improve-
ments and the provision of technical assistance and equipment. This would
be the second Bank-financed highway project in Jamaica. The first (Loan
408-JM, US$5.5 million, 1965) consisted of detailed engineering, construction
(to four-lane standards) and supervision of the Kingston-Spanish Town Road
and the Moneague-Crescent Park road, totaling 19 miles. Initially, the proj-
ect also included construction of the Spanish Town-Bog lWalk road (8 miles)
but this, with the Bank's approval, was subsequently deleted because of
increased costs. Execution of the project was delayed due to difficulties
in right-of-way acquisition, unsatisfactory performance of subcontractors,
relocation of public utilities ano inter-union labor disputes resulting in
abandonment of work by the contractor after 90% completion, and his claim
of frustration of contract. The work was resumed on force account basis and
is now complete. The loan is fully disbursed.
1.02      In 1968, the Government, with financing from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), appointed the Canadian firm of
Lamarre Valois International Ltd. (LVI) to carry out a countrywide trans-
portation survey to (a) establish and analyze costs of transportation by
rail, road, coastal shipping and air; (b) examine the capital investment
proposed in each mode over the next 10 years; and (c) project capital and
recurrent costs through 1979, recommeniding appropriate policies and measures
for the most economical development of the country's transportation system
during that period. LVI's report was issued in June 1970; the main recom-
mendations relating to roads were that: (a) a major resurfacing program of
paved roads should be undertaken to prevent further deterioration of pave-
ments and to reduce road-users' operating costs; (b) early construction/re-
construction of certain high-priority roads identified in the report should
be undertaken and (c) the structure and procedures of the road maintenance
organization should be improved.
1.03      Acting on these recommendations, the Government, in 1971,
commissioned LVI, again financed by CIDA, to carry out feasibility studies
on about 320 miles of high-priority roads, and detailed engineering on 60
miles of arterial roads and 40 miles of secondary main and Parish roads.
This work will be completed in 1973, and the Government is expected to pro-
pose reconstruction of some 30 miles of the arterial roads as the main
element of a third Bank-financed highway project inc]utded in the lending
program of the fiscal year 1974.
1.04      Acting on the LVI recommendations relating specifically to the
road resurfacing program and improvement of maintenance, the Government,
in 1972, retained the UK consultants T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners (TPOS)



to carry out a road maintenance study; the study was financed in part by
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and the Bank acted as executing
agency. TPOS submitted its draft final report in November 1972; its recom-
raendations formed the basis for appraisal of the project now proposed.
1.05      The project was appraised by Mr. W. Sikorski (Engineer) and
Mtiss I. Pastor (Economist) in December 1972. The report has been edited
by Miss V. Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   The Country and its Economy
2.01      Jamaica, the third largest island of the Caribbean, has an area
of 4,410 square miles, its greatest length (east-west) being 146 miles and
its greatest width (north-south) 51 miles. A mountain ridge about 2,500
feet high runs east-west, separating the island into northern and southern
coastal areas. The island's natural resources include bauxite and other
mineral deposits scattered in various locations in the central area; a plea-
sant tropical climate and beaches suitable for tourism, primarily along the
north coast; fertile soils for agriculture; and fishing and forest reserves.
Jamaica's population of about two million has grown in the last 12 years at
a net annual rate (allowing for migration) of about 1.5%. Its high population
density of about 460 persons per square mile is surpassed only by Trinidad
and Tobago among the Latin American and Caribbean countries. Kingston, the
capital, situated on the southern coast, is the main market for the country's
agricultural produce and imported goods. Montego Bay, on the north coast, is
the most important tourist resort.
2.02      The per capita GNP of Jamaica is currently about US$690.  In real
terms, the growth rate of GDP is estimated to have reached about 5% p.a.
over the last five years.  The most important single contributor to the
rapid growth of the economy is the mining sector 1/, which accounted for
about 17% of GDP in 1971. The other leading contributors are manufacturing,
agriculture, construction and tourism. The level of agricultural output
in recent years has been variable, but Government expects that, following
the implementation of a major investment program, it will stabilize in com-
ing years at a high level and that, considering also the output of substan-
tial investments in mining, increases in industrialization and the projected
expansion in tourism, a growth in GDP of 6% p.a. in real terms would be
attainable over the next few years.
1/   Jamaica is the world's largest producer of bauxite; it supplies about
42% of the raw material needs for the aluminum industry of North
America, which in turn produces 60% of the world's aluminum output.



- 3 -
2.03      In spite of Jamaica's satisfactory growth rate in the past years,
unemployment remains high at about 16% of the labor force. The high level
of unemployment is explained by the age distribution of the labor force
(biased toward the younger age groups), the low rate of growth of the agri-
cultural sector (the traditional labor-intensive sector) and the high propor-
tion of unskilled labor among the unemployed.
B.   The Transport Sector
(i) General
2.04      Jamaica's transport system is generally adequate in extent,
although not always in condition or capacity; most of the population centers,
productive areas, and ports are well served. The system consists of about
10,000 miles of arterial and secondary main (together called "public") roads
and Parish roads 1/, a 200-mile Government-owned railway, a few miles of
private railway, four airports (two of them international), 13 ports, and
some petroleum products pipelines. In general, because of the island's rel-
atively small size, the transport system is characterized by short average
hauls and trip lengths. Although there are no readily available statistics
on the modal distribution of land traffic within the system, all evidence
demonstrates that an overwhelming proportion, particularly of passenger traf-
fic, is carried by road. This pattern of allocation between modes is likely
to continue over the next 10 years or so.
(ii) Roads
2.05      Details of the road system and its administration are given in
Chapter 3.
(iii) Railways
2.06      The public railway in Jamaica is run by the Jamaica Railways
Corporation (JRC), which is responsible to the Minister of Public Utilities,
Communications and Transport. The system consistq of 205 miles, most of
it built in the latter half of the 19th century. The main trunk line (112
miles) provides access to the country's main mining and agricultural areas
and connects eight of the largest towns of the island. There are private
lines owned by the bauxite mining companies. The railway system primarily
serves the bauxite and alumina industry and a passenger demand; it carries
only a small volume of general cargo. Railway operations, in general, are
costly because of the relatively short hauls and the island's rugged topo-
graphy.
1/   The administrative unit of Jamaica is the "Parish" (of which there are
13). The Parish roads are also "public" roads in the normal sense
(Table 1).



- 4 -
2.07      JRC's freight traffic in 1971 was about 3.1 million tons or
83.6 million ton-km, of which over 98% was bauxite, alumina, or material
associated with the industry. With the expansion of mining, this traffic
grew at an average of 7% p.a. between 1966 and 1971. Other commodities
(mostly agricultural) have increasingly been diverted to road--since for
non-bulk commodities, road transport offers a cheaper service than does the
railway--with the result that less than 40,000 tons of non-mining traffic
were carried in 1971.  The average haul of freight traffic remained broadly
constant at 27 miles between 1966 and 1971. Total passengers carried were
about 1.2 million in 1966 and 1 million in 1971, but total passenger miles
increased during this period from 35.7 million to 39.5 million. The average
passenger journey thus increased from 29 to 39 miles. This is attributable
to more trips being taken between Kingston and Montego Bay, on which section
about 70% of all passenger trips take place.
2.08      The 1970 Jamaican Transportation Survey (para. 1.02) recommended,.
as first priority, that the railway's rates and fares should be revised to
help solve its deficit position, and that uneconomic lines should be aban-
doned, or, alternatively, that the Government should provide grants to cover
the cost of "social" services provided by the railway. The Government has
since increased its contract rates, and they now probably cover the capital
and operating costs, including overheads, of moving the mining traffic. In
addition, in 1972, the Frankfield-May Pen line, one of the uneconomic lines,
was closed. Most of the loss of JRC (about J$ 500,000 p.a.) is on lines not
connected with the mining industry and, in fact, most of the loss is incurred
on the line to Port Antonio. However, this line serves many poor areas, and
the Minister of Public Utilities, Communications and Transport is reluctant
to deprive them of the service.
(iv) Air Transport
2.09      Jamaica has two international airports, one at Kingston and one at
Montego Bay, served by some 12 foreign airlines and by the national carrier,
Air Jamaica. Internal flights between these and two domestic airports at
Ocho Rios and Port Antonio are provided by a local airline, Jamaica Air Ser-
vices. There are four other small public airports which accommodate general
aviation and over 30 private landing strips owned by the mining and sugar
companies. All public airports are operated by the Civil Aviation Department
of the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and Transport. Revenues
from landing fees, rentals, concessions and licenses, but excluding travel
tax, rose from J$ 660,000 in 1962/63 to an estimated J$ 1.8 million in 1972/73.
Operating expenditures have increased during the same period from some
J$ 460,000 to J$ 1.7 million.
2.10      The sharp increase in tourism in recent years has had a major
impact on Jamaica's international air traffic. Passenger movements at the
two major airports increased between 1965 and 1970 at an average rate of
14% p.a., to over 500,000 at each. Freight movements and general aviation
traffic have also increased considerably. The sharp traffic increase has
led to congestion in aircraft ground cperations and traffic handling at both
major airports. Based on the recommendations of Canadian consultants (Kates,



Peat Marwick and Company and Montreal Engineering) financed by CIDA, the
Government has requested Bank financing for an airport development project
to improve facilities at both Montego Bay and Kingston Airports. An appraisal
mission has been scheduled for May 1973.
(v) Ports
2.11      Jamaica has 13 active ports, all privately owned and operated.
Two of them, Kingston and Montego Bay, are primarily general cargo ports,
handling most of the country's imports, while the other 11 are specialized
and handle mainly exports. Kingston handles over 80% of the island's im-
ports (4.0 million metric tons in 1970) and about 7% of its exports (13.0
million metric tons in 1970). Among the other ports, there are five effi-
ciently handling the mining companies' export needs; the largest is Port
Rhoades on the northwest coast, which deals with 5 million tons of bauxite
annually. The other six are used to export agricultural products such as
sugar, molasses and bananas, and some agricultural products are also handled
through the mining companies' ports.
(vi) Pipelines
2.12      Pipelines owned and operated by the private sector carry fuel from
the ESSO refinery in Kingston to various major consumers, to the railway
loading station and from some ports to the bauxite mines and alumina plants.
Specific information on the extent of the pipeline network is not available.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.13      Transport policy is the responsibility of several Government
departments and agencies. The Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications
and Transport is responsible for overall policy formulation for aviation,
ports and railways, while the Ministry of Works (MOW) is in charge of for-
mulating policies for public roads. Parish roads are under the jurisdiction
of Parish Councils, which, at the national level, are the responsibility of
the Ministry of Local Government. The Ministry of Industry and Tourism deals
with policy formulation on shipping matters. Overall economic planning was
transferred in 1972 from the Ministry of Finance to a new National Planning
Agency to allow the planning process to operate more effectively than previ-
ously. One of the main tasks of the Agency, under the guidance of the
Ministerial-level National Economic Council (NEC), is the planning of invest-
ments, including investment in transport.
2.14      In general, the users of roads, ports and airports meet the capital
and operating costs, including overheads, of these services, while railway
users pay only part of the costs of the services they receive. Taxation on
individual users varies even within modes. For example, diesel-engined ve-
hicles are favored with a low level of taxation since there are no taxes on
diesel fuel, while vehicles with gasoline engines pay a high excise duty on
gasoline. Government policy on taxation of transport users has not been de-
fined in terms of specific goals, and available information does not provide
a basis on which to judge the adequacy of existing taxation policies in
relation to the efficient use of the transport system.



-6 -
2.15      Little competition presently exists among modes.  Each mode is
highly specialized, and diversion from one to another has occurred only on
a small scale, largely limited to diversion from railway to road. No seri-
ous competition among modes is foreseen.
3. THE ROAD SYSTEM AND ROAD TRANSPORT
A.   The Road Network and its Traffic
3.01      The road network of Jamaica is, for the size of the island,
relatively extensive, totaling nearly 10,000 miles, of which over 8,000
miles are suitable for vehicular traffic (Table 1). The network was de-
veloped from horse-drawn carriage and bridle roads by gradual improvement
and adaptation to motor vehicle traffic; it is not surprising, therefore,
that the geometrical standards of the roads are, by modern criteria, poor,
but, nevertheless, generally appropriate in the context of Jamaica. Most
of the asphaltic pavements were constructed between 1950 and 1960 but, be-
cause of deferment of periodic resurfacing, widespread aging anid fatigue are
evident in the surface of paved roads, although there are few potholes or
pavement base failures. High intensity rainfall results in frequent flood
damage.
3.02      Vehicle license registration in Jamaica increased from 23,262 units
in 1955 to 102,000 in 1969, representing an annual growth rate of about 11%.
No reliable information on annual vehicle licenses is available for the last
few years. Cars account for about 75% of the total vehicle fleet. The
vehicle density, 50 vehicles per 1,000 persons, is the fifth highest among
Latin American and Caribbean countries, following Trinidad and Tobago,
Uruguay, Argentina and Venezuela.
3.03      Traffic counts were carried out by MOW at about 50 points on the
main road network between 1964 and 1972. From these, it appears that the
highest traffic volumes on the island are on the Kingston-Spanish Town road
(ADT 13,000) and the Spanish Town-Mandeville road (ADT 6,000).  Other main
roads near Kingston, Spanish Town, Montego Bay and Ocho Rios have relatively
heavy traffic with ADT's from 3,000 to 6,000. Most of the remaining arterial
roads have ADT's between 500 and 2,000 while, for most of the secondary main
roads, ADT is between 50 and 250. Because of the island's relatively small
size (para. 2.01), average trip lengths are short. Seasonal fluctuations of
traffic on the main roads are no more than 10%.
3.04      The MOW traffic counts indicate that traffic volumes grew at an
average rate of 8.5% for the whole island during 1964-1972, with growth
rates on specific roads varying between 4% p.a. and 13% p.a. Traffic growth
has been particularly high on roads associated with bauxite (over 12% p.a.)
and with tourism (over 10% p.a.). The corresponding figure for roads serv-
ing agricultural areas - mainly Parish roads - is no more than about 4% p.a.
These rates are generally consistent with the growth of traffic expressed



in vehicle-miles, estimated by LVI (para. 1.02) at 9.5% p.a. from 1962 to
1970, and with the growth of gasoline consumption (11.8% p.a. between 1964
and 1970).
3.05      Speeds on the network are limited by alignments and average only
about 30 mph for cars and 25 mph for trucks. From a study of (a) a report
by the Road Research Laboratory (UK) in 1962, (b) the report on the Jamaica
Transportation Survey in 1970 (para. 1.02) and (c) TPOS' work in 1972 (para.
1.04), it is evident that speeds have not increased significantly in the
past 10 years. Vehicle operating costs are generally high and reflect the
poor surface quality and low geometrical standards. The proposed project
aims mainly at strengthening the pavement and improving the riding quality,
although minor improvements of the alignment and other features are included
(para. 4.05). Major improvement of geometric standards for certain roads
with high traffic volume will be carried out within the new construction
program being prepared by the Government (para. 3.15).
3.06      Prices charged by the road transport industry have not been
studied in detail, but there is evidence that freight rates are relatively
high. For example, between Kingston and Spanish Town (15 miles), the rate
for a five-ton load is normally quoted at the equivalent of US4 40/ton-mile;
between Kingston and Montego Bay, the longest typical haul on the island
(120 miles), the rate for a 30-ton load is equivalen;t to US4 21/ton-mile.
However, rates are not maintained unduly high because of insufficient capac-
ity or difficulty in acquiring vehicles. It is conmmon for smaller truckers
to have the purchase of their trucks financed by commercial companies for
whom they carry freight. The rate at which the truck fleet has been growing
in the past few years suggests that there are no restrictions on the expan-
sion of the fleet to meet demand.
3.07      Permissible vehicle weights are governed by the Road Traffic Law
and are set out in detail in the Road Traffic Regulations, 1938, as amended
through 1971. The essentials of the Regulations, insofar as they apply to
trucks and other heavy vehicles, are given in Annex 1 to this report. In
summary, for trucks, including articulated trucks, permissible total weights,
but not permissible axle weights, are specified; a maximum axle weight is,
however, specified for public passenger vehicles. Vehicle weights in excess
of those specified in the Regulations may, however, be authorized by the
Minister (responsible for transport). The "penalty" for operating trucks in
excess of vehicle weights normally permitted by the Regulations is E1.00 per
annum for each 1,000 pounds authorized in excess of the limit permitted by
the Regulations.
3,08      These Regulations are deficient in that they:
(a)  specify gross weights rather than axle weights; and
(b)  greatly undercharge owners of vehicles, heavier than
those normally permitted by the Regulations, for the
effect of overloading on the pavements.



- 8 -
The problem, is one which does not permit of rapid or easy solution, since
the licensing system is well entrenched. However, as a move in the desir-
able direction, the Bank, during negotiations, obtained an assurance from
Government that, within three years of the date of the Loan Agreement,or such
other period as shall be agreed between the Government and the Bank, it will:
(a) revise the Regulations to appropriately define permissible vehicle weights
and axle loadings for all vehicles and (b) review the road user charges in
relation to vehicles which are licensed to exceed normally permissible limits
in order to see if the charges can reflect more adequately the effect of op-
erations of such vehicles on the road network.
B.   Administration:  The Ministry of Works
3.09      The planning, construction and maintenance of arterial and secon-
dary main roads (Table 1) are the responsibility of MOW. The tecutnical work
of MOW is organized under the Chief Technical Director on a funct4onal basis
(Chart 1); thus the Ministry's responsibility for roads is shared among five
directorates. The Directorate of Technical Services (DTS) is responsible for
survey, design, estimates, specifications, procurement of contract work above
US$11,000 which is financed from budgetary sources, land acquisition, traffic
surveys, laboratory investigations and research; it has an establishment of
172, including 27 civil engineers. The Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical
Services (DEMS) is responsible for electrical installations in Government build-
ings and for all vehicles and equipment of MOW; it has an establishment of 742,
including six mechanical engineers. Specifically, DEMS allocates and controls
the funds for the operation, maintenance and repairs of all plants and vehicles
allocated to the directorates of MOW. The Directorate of Maintenance (DM) is
responsible for maintaining roads, bridges, buildings and drainage channels;
it has a staff of 1,484, including 359 technical staff, but no professional
engineers. The Directorate of Construction (DC) is responsible for execution
and administration of all capital projects carried out by MOW and financed
from the national budget; it has an establishment of 79, including four civil
engineers. The Directorate of Major Projects (DMP) administers and controls
externally financed projects. It has an establishment of 10, including five
civil engineers.
3.10      The organizational structure of the MOW was overhaulled some nine
years ago and is generally satisfactory. Although a separate entity respon-
sible only for roads would be more efficient from the narrow viewpoint of the
administration of the road system, there would be no justification for such
a restructuring of MOW at this time. No difficulties arise from grouping of
maintenance of roads and buildings within one directorate, since separate
personnel are assigned to each work, and budgetary allocations and equipment
are also separated. The relatively small scale of operations would, in any
case, probably preclude a rational case being made for such a separation of
functions.
C.   Road Planning and Financing
3.11      The road planning responsibility of MOW is exercised mainly by
the Chief Technical Director assisted by DMP. However, the Government has
normally relied on consultants to prepare major highway investments, first



- 9 -
the UK Road Research Laboratory in 1962 and later LVI (para. 1.02). LVI
recommended establishment of a Directorate of Planning, which would be re-
sponsible for (a) economic evaluation of all transportation projects and for
maintaining an adequate data base for planning and (b) development and imple-
mentation of a national transport policy, but this recommendation has not yet
been fully implemented by Government. However, the Government is presently
recruiting staff to strengthen its highway planning unit in MOW. Additionally,
within the recently established National Planning Agency (para. 2.13), there
is a unit responsible for infrastructure planning, including transportation.
Meanwhile, DMP is carrying out the planning function insofar as it relates
to road projects to be externally financed. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment assured the Bank that basic traffic and technical data will be collected
on a continuing basis and that studies will be carried out as and when neces-
sary for transport planning and policy formulation.
3.12      Annual estimates are submitted by MOW in November for the fiscal
year commencing the following April. Authorized budgetary allocations are,
however, sometimes received by MOW only in the following September. This
slow budgetary process results in an inefficient programming of work, since
directorates naturally tend to hold back during the first half of the fiscal
year as an insurance against over-expenditure of allocations.
3.13      Road expenditures over the period 1965-1973 have been financed
mostly (94%) with local funds through budgetary appropriations; external
financing (6%) has been provided by IBRD (para. 1.01), CIDA and USAID. The
Bank's participation, although small compared with total road expenditure,
represented about two-thirds of external financing during the period.
3.14      Total expenditure on roads rose from US$10.3 million in 1965/66
to US$21.1 million in 1970/71, and to an estimated US$32.1 million in 1972/73
(Table 2). Expenditure on construction almost tripled over the period 1965-
1971, increasing from US$5.6 million to US$14.0 million; in the same period,
maintenance expenditures increased from US$3.5 million to US$5.4 million.
Currently, maintenance expenditures are about US$8.3 million per year. This
substantial increase derives primarily from two factors: a US$1.4 million
special labor-employment maintenance program, a result of Government employ-
ment policy; and general cost and salary increases. Revenues from road users,
although not specifically earmarked for road financing, have been consist-
ently higher than total road expenditures (Table 3).
3.15      Jamaica's current road investment plans are mainly based on the
work of LVI (para. 1.02). The firm's ongoing work (in effect, the second
stage of the CIDA-financed studies) is likely to recommend construction of
about 120 miles of arterial roads and 200 miles of secondary and parochial
roads over 10 years. Government has provisionally planned for half of
this program to be implemented during the period 1973-1977 at a cost of
about US$29 million for the arterial roads program, and US$14 million for
the secondary roads program, with external financing from IBRD and IDB.
The Government contributions would amount to about US$22 million or about
USS4.3 million p.a. over the five-year period, on the basis of 50% of foreign
financing.



- 10 -
3.16      In addition to the above proposed program, Government, supported
by a USAID loan of US$10.0 million, has already embarked on a US$16.8 mil-
lion rural feeder road program for the construction of about 300 miles of
such roads over the period 1970-1977. This program has been economically
justified on the basis of increases in production from higher yields and
extension of the cultivated areas, stimulated by improved access to markets.
D.   Engineering and Construction
3.17      DTS is responsible for all aspects of engineering (survey, site
and laboratory investigation and design) of capital projects financed wholly
from the budget. The standard and quality of the work appear adequate.
DMP is responsible for similar services for projects financed externally
and operates through the use of consultants.
3.18      Construction is carried out both by force account and by contract.
DC, for example, carries out some work such as earthmoving and road base
construction by force account, but paving works in general are executed by
contract. International competitive bidding is used for externally-financed
work; work financed internally is awarded to Jamaican firms either by com-
petitive bidding or by negotiated contract (para. 3.19). The local capacity
for road work comprises three firms specializing in asphaltic concrete pre-
mix and about 20 firms capable of undertaking small scale civil works.
3.19      MOW has a practice of fragmenting road construction and improvement
work into small lots; because of this practice, bidding becomes uneconomical
and, as a result, contracts below US$11,000 are procured by negotiation.
This has encouraged the development of a local small scale contracting in-
dustry, but it has had an adverse influence on unit rates, which are much
higher than in many other countries. LVI reported, for instance, that rates
for typical road construction operations in Jamaica are 150-300% higher than
those obtaining in eastern Canada, the reasons being mainly fragmentation of
work, low total volume of work and low utilization of generally out-of-date
equipment. The large road program proposed for the next five years may re-
sult in a wider interest by both international and domestic contractors,
leading to increased competition and a lowering of rates.
E.   Maintenance
3.20      The structure of the DM is shown on Chart 2.  The structure at
Area level is sound, but there is a noticeable imbalance in the span of
control between Areas and Headquarters. Specifically, nine officers report
to the Director of Maintenance who, additionally, is required to deal with
a considerable number of claims, complaints and requests from the public in
connection with the road network; thus, he has little time left for his pri-
mary duties of planning and supervision of road maintenance. To help correct
this imbalance, TPOS (para. 1.04) recommended the creation of an additional
(professional) level, the County, in the structure of the Directorate.



- 11 -
3.21      The establishment of DM is sizable and is about 50% of all MOW
personnel; however, there is no professional engineer in the Directorate
(para. 3.09). At Headquarters, there are only eight staff in total, in-
cluding clerical staff, which is insufficient to ensure planning, programming,
costing and control of maintenance work. TPOS recommended the appointment
in Headquarters of a senior administrative officer to deal with complaints
and administrative matters on behalf of the Director, and an increase in
clerical staff. The consultants also recommended that a senior professional
member of the staff of DTS be given responsibility for forecasting and
meeting technical requirements of DM.
3.22      The establishment of DM at Area and Parish levels is adequate.
Each Area Senior Superintendent is responsible for two Parishes. His office
is located at one of his Parish offices, and this Parish - because of his
presence - is the responsibility of an assistant superintendent only; the
other Parish in the area is the responsibility of a superintendent. TPOS
recommended that assistant superintendents be upgraded when eligible, and
be given full responsibility for their Parishes, thus relieving the Senior
Superintendents from this duty for more effective supervision of maintenance
in their Areas.
3.23      Each Parish has an allocation of basic maintenance equipment and
vehicles. Most of the equipment is old and about 50% of the vehicles are over
five years old; hence, repairs (which are carried out in the four DENS work-
shops situated at Kingston, Richmond, Montego Bay and Mandeville) are fre-
quent. The supply of spare parts is adequate, and time spent for individual
repairs is not excessive. Nevertheless, because of the age of the equipment,
availability is low, about 75% on average. To supplement available equipment,
there is a considerable recourse to hiring; about 35% of haulage is done by
hired trucks, and graders, traxcavators and bitumen distributors are hired
for about 80% of the work. Utilization, both of departmental and hired equip-
ment, is low, due to fragmentation and dispersion of work.
3.24      Maintenance work is carried out both by force account and by
contract. Current practice is to contract nearly all asphalt resurfacing
work and about 50% of resealing. Routine maintenance activities, such as
grass cutting and drain cleaning, are generally performed on a piece-
work basis in the form of "petty task" contracts limited to a maximum value
of US$22 awarded to individuals. Area or Parish Superintendents can award
contracts up to a maximum of US$11,000; the usual practice is to award con-
tracts up to this figure by negotiation with contractors located in the
Parish concerned.
3.25      Maintenance is programmed on a day-to-day basis to deal with the
most urgent repairs (particularly patching of potholes and of damaged edges
of pavement), most urgent resealing, and repairs of flood damage and of
pavement failures. This leads to a scattering and fragmentation of work
which, in turn, results in low efficiency of labor and equipment and in high
cost of work. Moreover, due to delay in approval of annual budgets, there is
a considerable variation in workload over the fiscal year; LVI reported, for
instance, that employment of temporary labor in one Parish in 1968 varied



- 12 -
from 200 in April to 2,210 in December. The fragmentation of work, non-
competitive procurement and non-uniform workload result in a very high cost
of road maintenance, reaching about US$3,000 per mile per year, 1/ overheads
and cost of equipment included. TPOS recommended that the availability of
equipment be increased by introducing preventive maintenance routines at
Parish level and that a road maintenance program be prepared for each Parish
for planning and control of maintenance work.
3.26      The preparation of programs and budgetary estimates for road
maintenance is the responsibility, in the first instance, of the Senior
Superintendents of the Areas. Allocations, when finally approved, however,
tend to be appreciably less than the Areas' estimates because of reductions
made during the review process in MOW and the Ministry of Finance. Intro-
duction of rational planning and control of maintenance work would help
reduce the cost of maintenance and would lead to more realistic budgeting
and allocations.
3.27      Specifically as regards periodic maintenance of the paved roads
(that is, asphaltic overlay), the current budgetary allocation is sufficient
only for about 25% of the annual requirement of 200 miles of overlay. This
has been the situation over recent years, and the backlog currently is so
great that TPOS recommended an urgent program of resurfacing and resealing
of about 1,500 miles of public roads; the consultants' economic analysis
led them to conclude that 50% of the work should be completed within one
year and 75% within the first two years, although, clearly, financial and
physical constraints would preclude such a concentrated program. The
consultants also recommended a technical assistance program of about 300
man-months to help implement the work and to train DM personnel in better
planning and control.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Description
4.01      The objectives of the project are to improve certain major roads
in Jamaica; to reduce the backlog of maintenance on others; and generally
to improve the structure, staffing and procedures of the Ministry of Works,
insofar as they relate to maintenance of the country's road system. In de-
tail, the project comprises:
(a) Improvement of about 440 miles of paved main roads,
generally by provision of an asphaltic overlay;
(b) Maintenance of a further 250 miles or thereabouts by
provision of asphaltic resealing;
1/   About half this figure would be considered adequate in many countries.



- 13 -
(c) Certain minor works in conjunction with (a) and (b);
(d) Provision of road maintenance equipment and a small
quantity of workshop equipment and tools;
(e) Restructuring of the DM and improvement in the staff-
ing and procedures of the MOW, insofar as they relate
to road maintenance;
(f) Provision of technical assistance to aid in"the imple-
mentation of (a) through (e) preceding.
The project would be spread over about five years to ensure (a) an acceptable
load on budgetary resources and (b) a broadly uniform load on the local
contracting industry, which is expected to participate in a great portion
of the civil works.
B.   Road Improvement and Maintenance
4.02      The proposed project provides for resurfacing with asphaltic
overlay, generally about 1-1/2 inches thick, of some 380 miles of arterial
roads (representing about 80% of the island's total mileage of arterial
roads) and of some 60 miles of secondary main roads (Table 4 and Map). The
road sections, selected on the basis of TPOS' work, are characterized by
pavements which, although generally sound, are beginning to show signs of
surface distress and are becoming increasingly susceptible to excessive
wear by the relatively heavy traffic to which they are subjected. The
asphaltic overlays proposed would help restore the riding quality of, and
significantly strengthen, the pavements and would help maintain the integrity
of the existing pavement structures.
4.03      An overlay of 1-1/2 inch thickness on average (and probably within
the range of 1 inch to 2 inches) has been assumed for estimating cost. The
specific thickness for each section would be determined more precisely by
a rational design based on the present strength of the pavement, determined
by deflection measurements, and the expected axle weight profile. To deter-
mine this profile, a survey would be made by MOW, assisted by the consultants,
to ascertain the axle load distribution of current traffic; this distribution
would then be projected over a 10-year period (the life used in the economic
evaluation), assuming a certain growth and composition of traffic.
4.04      The project also provides for resealing with a double asphaltic
surface treatment of a further 250 miles of secondary main roads on which
the pavements, while showing no obvious signs of structural distress, are
becoming dry and are losing their waterproof properties. The proposed
asphaltic surface treatment would reseal the pavement surfaces against the
ingress of moisture and thus help conserve the pavement strength. While it
would be possible to indicate in general terms which sections may be in need
of resealing in the light of current conditions, bearing in mind that the
work would be spread over about five years and that deterioration, for many
reasons, may not proceed as currently envisaged, the roads to be resealed



- 14 -
have not been formally listed in the project description; they should, how-
ever, be agreed with Government from time to time during the execution of
the project, in the light of road and traffic conditions then prevailing.
The procedures by which the Government and the Bank would agree on the road
sections to be included for resealing were discussed and agreed during nego-
tiations.
4.05      The project additionally provides for limited minor works to be
carried out in conjunction with this resurfacing and resealing work, with
the aim of improving the worst of the geometrical features of the roads and
the roadside drainage. The geometrical improvement envisaged comprises
easing the sharpest bends and restoring the profile of the pavement where
it is seriously out of shape.
C.   Provision of Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment
4.06      The unsatisfactory condition of the basic equipment in the Parishes
has been described earlier (para. 3.23). With the aim of improving the cap-
ability of the 13 Parishes for routine maintenance operations, the project
includes provision of essential equipment such as trucks, personnel carriers,
graders, and loaders. This provision is equivalent to about US$200,000 a
Parish, and is based on the recommendations of the TPOS study; details of the
equipment are given in Table 5. The provision for workshop equipment and tools
for the four DEMS workshops (para. 3.23) is also in line with TPOS proposals
for introducing preventive maintenance for Parish maintenance equipment.
D.   Restructuring of DM; Improvement of Staffing and Procedures
4.07      The present structure, staffing and procedures of DM (paras. 3.20-
3.25) militate against the Directorate's efficient working. The project
therefore includes appropriate measures to initiate action for improvement
in all three aspects.
4.08      Regarding the structure of DM, TPOS recommended that the six Area
offices be replaced by three "county" offices. However, while accepting the
proposal to introduce three "county" offices, the Government considers that
the Area offices should be retained. Since the Area offices are currently
well organized and the Senior Superintendents carry out their work satis-
factorily, there is a persuasive case for their retention. Nevertheless,
the "county level" should be introduced by the creation of three new "county
engineer" posts to be staffed by professional engineers (Chart 2). The
effect of this change in the structure of the DM would be twofold: it would
provide an opportunity to introduce professional engineers into line manage-
ment and it would reduce the span of control of the Director, which is at
present excessively wide. An assurance was obtained from the Government dur-
ing negotiations that three "county engineer" posts would be introduced as a
professional level with duties and responsibilities to be determined in
agreement with the Bank and to be reviewed from time to time in the light of
changing circumstances.



- 15 -
4.09      As regards personnel, the project envisages appointment to DM, and
their retention, of four professional civil engineers, a senior administrative
officer and an accountant. An assurance to this effect was obtained from
Government during negotiations. Three of the four civil engineers would begin
to act as "county engineers" (para. 4.08) and the fourth as technical assistant
to the Director; the accountant would be responsible for the costing of all
maintenance work and the senior administrative officer would be responsible
for much of the administrative and public relations load currently borne by
the Director. This additional staff, and indeed all staff of DM, would be
trained by the technical assistance to be provided under the project (para.
4.14); from this point of view, the additional staff would be considered as
counterparts to the experts supplied under the technical assistance.
4.10      The conditions of service and career prospects for the additional
staff should be such as to attract and retain personnel of appropriate caliber.
Since appointment of this additional staff would be crucial to the implementa-
tion of the project, specifically to improvement of the DM, it would be made
a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
4.11      Improvement of maintenance procedures under the project may be
considered in the context of the Area/Parish level and the national level.
At the Area/Parish level, the improvement most urgently required is the
introduction of costing of work; a knowledge of the total cost (including,
for instance, the running cost and depreciation of equipment) would provide
an essential part of the feedback to Area/Parish management for proper plan-
ning of work and control of labor and equipment. Costing of maintenance
work would in no way be a substitute for, or conflict with, Government's
normal accounting procedures; these latter would continue in DM as in all
other branches and agencies of Government, but they do not enable the true
cost of maintenance work to be determined since it is accounted for in more
than one directorate of the Ministry (para. 3.09). Costing should be gradually
introduced, possibly on a pilot basis initially, using the additional staff
to be appointed to DM (para. 4.09), aided by the experts to be provided under
the technical assistance. An assurance that Government would introduce costing
of road maintenance operations within a time limit to be agreed with the Bank
was obtained during negotiations.
4.12      Also at the local level, the practice of negotiated contracts (paras.
3.19 and 3.24). other than petty contracts below about J$ 500, should, in gen-
eral, gradually be eliminated. With the introduction of costing and better
planning, it should be possible to plan the work to be placed with local con-
tractors so that it would be large enough to be attractive for competitive
bidding. An assurance was obtained from Government at negotiations that the
practice of negotiated contracts, apart from petty contracts or in exceptional
circumstances, would be phased out within two years of the date of the Loan
Agreement, or such other time as the Government and the Bank may agree upon.
4.13      At the national level, there is need for a comprehensive maintenance
plan; such a plan, covering a five-year period, was proposed by TPOS but was
incompatible in some respects with the physical and financial constraints of
the country. A revision of the TPOS plan should logically take into account



- 16 -
the true cost of maintenance operations; thus, its formulation should be
deferred until some experience of costing is available. Moreover, the for-
mulation of such a five-year plan would benefit from the technical assistance
to be provided under the project. However, this assistance would be occupied
to a large extent during the early part of the project period with the estab-
lishment of planning and costing procedures, procurement and supervision of
the civil works. A period of about six months should be sufficient for this
preliminary work; an assurance was obtained from the Government that a com-
prehensive five-year national road maintenance plan would be prepared in
physical and monetary terms within one year of the date of the Loan Agreement
or such further period as the Government and the Bank may determine. Meanwhile,
annual budgetary allocations for road maintenance should be maintained in real
terms at the present level, pending implementation of the five-year maintenance
plan; an assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
E.   Technical Assistance
4.14      The project includes provision for about 220 man-months of tech-
nical assistance which, although less than the 300 man-months proposed by
TPOS, is considered sufficient for this project; the disciplines and periods
for which this assistance would be provided are given in Table 6. The tech-
nical assistance team would help in:
(a) planning and execution of minor works to be carried out
in conjunction with the road improvement and maintenance;
(b) preparation of procurement documents for equipment and
civil works, and in evaluation of bids;
(c) development of costing and work planning procedures
including the work necessary in DEMS for equipment
maintenance and costing;
(d)  introduction of the "county" concept in the structure
of DM;
(e) supervision of the civil works under the project;
(f) development of a five-year national road maintenance
plan; and
(g)  training of the DM personnel.
The counterparts for the members of the team would primarily be the additional
staff to be appointed to DM (para. 4.09). Participation in the foregoing work
by the technical assistance team should automatically provide training for
the counterparts and others of the staff of DM and DEMS. The Government has
already initiated negotiations with the consultants TPOS for a contract to
undertake the technical assistance assignment. Since this technical assistance
would be essential for the successful implementation of the project, signature
of the contract on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan.



- 17 -
4.15      Training of the DM personnel in the improved procedures of road
maintenance will be one of the main duties of the consultants engaged for
technical assistance. The objectives of this program will be to train the
new professional staff and the superintendents in costing, budgeting, plan-
ning, organization, procurement and supervision of road maintenance and to
train the technical personnel in Area and Parish units in elementary costing
of works, in efficient organization and execution of works, and in supervision
and administration of work by contract. Training will be carried out by the
in-service method and by short courses. It will take place mainly during the
first three years of the project, during which period the greater part of the
consultants' input would be made. It is estimated that at least 25% of the
experts' time or a total of about 50 to 60 man-months would be used for training
purposes.
F.   Cost Estimates
4.16      Cost estimates for the project are given in detail in Table 7 and
are summarized below:
% Foreign
J$ '000                   US$ '000          Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Component
I Asphaltic
overlay /1    2,890   3,180   6,070    3,180   3,500   6,680          52
Asphaltic
resealing /1  1,500   1,100   2,600    1,650   1,200   2,850          42
Minor works
in connection
with the
above /2       1,700     -      1,700    1,870      -     1,870       -
II Purchase of
equipment        -     2,180   2,180       -      2,400   2,400      100
III Technical
assistance       200     870   1,070       220      960   1,180       81
IV  Contingencies    946   1,109   2,055    1,040   1,218   2,258           54
Total (in round
figures)      7.240   8,440  15,680    7,960   9,300  17,260          54
Say (millions)      8.0     9.3    17.3
/1   Including allowance for restoration of profile.
7/2 Mainly ditches, bends,etc.



- 18 -
4.17      The cost estimates for asphaltic overlay and for asphaltic resealing
have been based on the TPOS estimates which the consultants prepared, using
current contract rates in Jamaica; preparatory work has been estimated at
about US$2,750 per mile. The cost of equipment has been based on the c.i.f.
cost Kingston of the equipment listed in Table 5.  The cost of technical
assistance has been based on TPOS' estimates. The bases for the contingency
allowances are given in Table 7.
4.18      The foreign exchange component of asphaltic overlay has been as-
sessed at about 52%, on the assumption that the work would be undertaken by
foreign contractors. However, the subdivision of the work (para. 4.22) may
result in some of it being undertaken by local firms, in which case a small
amount of local financing would result. The foreign exchange component of
asphaltic resealing has been assessed at 42% on the assumption that this work
would be undertaken by Jamaican contractors. The foreign exchange component
of technical assistance has been assessed at 81% on the basis of the recent
experience in the TPOS study.
G.   Financing and Disbursement
4.19      The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component
of the project, estimated at US$9.3 million equivalent, except to the extent
mentioned in paragraph 4.18, should some of the work be undertaken by local
firms. Local costs would be met from budgetary allocations. On the assumption
that the technical assistance team would be operational before signing of the
Loan Agreement, retroactive financing for this item, from April 16, 1973,
estimated at no more than US$120,000, would be required from the proposed loan.
4.20      The disbursement from the loan account would be made on the follow-
ing basis:
(a) for asphaltic overlay, 52% of the contractor's bills;
(b) for asphaltic resealing, 42% of the contractor's bills;
(c) for purchase of equipment, 100% of the c.i.f. cost Kingston;
(d) for technical assistance, 100% of the foreign exchange cost.
The projected disbursements through the project period are indicated in Table
8. Surplus funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the project
would be cancelled, unless needed for concurrent work related to the project
and/or feasibility studies approved by the Bank for further investments.
H.   Execution
4.21      Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Works acting through the Chief Technical Director. The technical
assistance team would assist in all aspects (para. 4.14).



- 19 _
4.22      The asphaltic overlay would be carried out by contract following
international bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement;
the work would be bid in two tranches of about US$3 million each, and sepa-
rated by a period of two years, to spread the load on the budgetary funds and
to ensure effective supervision. The details and schedule of procurement were
agreed with the Bank. Each tranche would consist of a number of lots, and
bidders would be allowed, consistent with their capacity, to bid for any com-
bination of lots. An assurance was obtained from Government during negotiations
that:
(a)  prior to bidding the overlay work, the strength of pavements
to be overlaid would be determined, and an axle load survey
of present traffic would be made (para. 4.03) so that the
overlay could be designed rationally. The technical as-
sistance team would help in the design of the overlay and
preparation of the bidding documents, and in supervision
of the work;
(b)  the contracts for the overlay would include restoration of
the profile of pavements where these have become dangerously
deformed.
4.23      The asphaltic resealing would be scattered over the secondary main
roads throughout the island and spread over about a five-year period. The
nature of the work makes it unlikely that it would be attractive to firms
not already established in Jamaica; procurement would generally be in accord-
ance with the Bank's Guidelines, except that the work would be advertised only
in Jamaica. The details and schedule of procurement were agreed with the Bank
during negotiations.
4.24      Prior to commencement of the asphaltic overlay and resealing, the
worst of the geometric features (dangerous horizontal bends, sharp vertical
curves, etc.) of the roads involved would be removed by DM (para. 4.05). An
assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations and the procedure to be
followed by the Government and the Bank for defining such work agreed upon.
A further assurance was obtained from the Government that, for all lengths of
road to be overlaid or resealed, roadside drainage, where deficient, would be
improved during the period of the project by provision of (a) adequate sur-
facing to, and drainage of, shoulders; and (b) longitudinal ditches of ade-
quate section and depth to drain the pavement structure.
4.25      Procurement of equipment would be through international competitive
bidding, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines; the procedure and schedule
for procurement was agreed by the Bank. Bidding documents would stipulate
that successful bidders would arrange for an adequate supply of spare parts
through local commercial representatives. The bulk of the equipment would be
procured during the first half of the project, leaving about 25% for a second
procurement, probably in the third year. This phasing would prevent a large
arrival of equipment at one time and would provide flexibility regarding the
type of equipment that may be required in the light of experience gained dur-
ing the first two years of the project.



- 20 -
4.26      Technical assistance to help in all aspects of the project would
be procured by the Government under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. The counterpart personnel would basically be the additional staff to
be provided in DM (para. 4.09). Signature of the technical assistance
contract as a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.14) would ensure that
this essential element would be available from the inception of the project.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The proposed project would improve both the physical condition of
the road network and the organization directly responsible for maintaining it
(DM). Physically, it would benefit all classes of road from the local Parish
to the arterial road; from an organization viewpoint, it would affect all
levels of DM, from the Parish superintendents and the road gangs they control
to the Director.
5.02      The physical impact of the project would be evident in three ways:
from the provision of equipment for day-to-day maintenance; from the reseal-
ing of about 250 miles of roads; and from the resurfacing of a further 440
miles, these latter including most of the island's arterial road system. As
regards DM, the project would have an impact on administrative procedures,
particularly those relating to costing; on the structure of the organization;
and on its staffing. Determination of the true costs of maintenance opera-
tions would provide all levels with a management tool not currently available;
it should lead to more effective maintenance and, hence, either to a reduc-
tion in the current cost of maintenance or, more desirably, to a greater main-
tenance effort for the same expenditure.
5.03      The equipment to be provided would chiefly affect 2,000 miles of
secondary main roads which are scattered through all 13 Parishes of Jamaica.
Adequate maintenance of such roads - an essential link in the farm-to-market
system - is required for the development of internal production or,where such
development has already taken place, to ensure that it would not slow down
because of a deterioration in the road system.
B.   Asphaltic Overlay
5.04      The effect of the overlay would be two-fold in that it would, at
the same time, make the roads stronger and improve riding conditions. The
road sections selected (Table 4) are among the heaviest trafficked in the
country; counts have been taken both by MOW and consultants over the past 10
years (paras. 3.03 and 3.04), and from these and other sources, ADT and traffic
growth rates have been derived for the economic evaluation.
5.05      Specifically, traffic counts were taken over a period of five or
seven days by TPOS in late 1972, and the figures were checked with those
derived from LVI's single-day counts in June 1972. After adjusting for



- 21 -
seasonal variations, it appears that ADT on the arterial roads considered
in the project varies between 3,400 and 500 and that on the secondary main
roads from 1,300 to 500. Details of current traffic composition are given
in Table 9.
5.06      From the counts over the last 10 years, it appears that traffic
growth has varied by type of route (bauxite or agricultural), and even with-
in the same type route, depending on the volume of traffic and the area
served. The economic evaluation has included estimates of future normal
traffic on the roads to be overlayed by considering annual growth rates
and composition of traffic over a 10-year period (the assumed economic life
of the project works). For this 10-year period, growth has been considered
in two five-year stages; the figures adopted (Table 9) are 5.0-9.0% for cars,
5.0-8.7% for light trucks, 4.5-8.5% for medium trucks, 3.0-8.5% fosr heavy
trucks and 3.2-6.0% for buses. The sum of the products of these growth
rates and the traffic on each road section matched the overall traffic
growth rates deduced by TPOS. These projections of growth are aieceptable
considering that improvement of the network would possibly result in a higher
annual vehicle mileage than the present one. No induced traffic has been
considered in the economic evaluation on the assumption that transport de-
mand on the project's roads is relatively inelastic to changes in vehicle
operating costs.
5.07      Quantifiable benefits arising from the asphaltic overlay and con-
sidered in the economic evaluation are:
(a) reduction in vehicle operating costs due to improved riding
surfaces; and
(b)  prevention of increased vehicle operating costs that would
occur if the roads were allowed to deteriorate further.
Quantification of vehicle operating costs has been based on the concept of
"Road Class" devised by TPOS. This is essentially a furiction of surface
roughness; definitions of the various Road Classes and of the operating
cost in each Area are indicated in Table 10. The evalvuation of benefits
arising from improved riding surfaces is based on the assumption that all
roads to be improved by asphaltic overlay will be raised to Class 1.25.
Typical operating savings from this improvement are as; follows:



- 22 -
Savings in J cents/veh mile assuming pavements raised to Class 1.25 (Table 11)
Vehicle                                           Existing Road Class
Type                                   1.50               1.75                  2.00
Car                                    0.6 (7%)            1.0 (11%)         1.4 (14%)
Medium Truck                           2.6 (11%)           5.0 (18%)         6.2 (22%)
Large Truck                            3.3 (11%)          6.8 (19%)          8.9 (24%)
Note: Figures in brackets indicate reduction on existing operating costs.
5.08      Quantification of benefits resulting from the avoidance of deter-
ioratioin of pavements has been based on the (conservative) assumption that
existing operating costs would be maintained for the five years commencing
1973 and would thereafter increase at a rate of about 5% per annum for the
next four years, then 10% per annum for the next three years (to about 1985,
that is, to the end of the 10-year economic life assumed following the end
of construction in 1975).
5.09      Overall, about 60% of total benefits are attributable to preven-
tion of increased operating costs and 40% to reduction in costs consequent
upon better riding conditions.
5.10      The economic cost used in the evaluation includes the cost of
asphaltic overlay and an allowance for the necessary restoration of profile
which would be required prior to such work (Table 4). The economic cost for
unskilled labor has been taken as 50% of actual wages because of the high
rate of unemployment in Jamaica (para. 2.03), although even without this
"shadow pricing" of the cost of labor, the work is amply justified.
5.11      The estimated net benefits discounted over a 10-year economic life
give a most likely value for the economic return greater than 50%; the first
year benefits on average are higher than 30% of this part of the project cost.
A sensitivity test applied to measure the response of economic return to lower
initial traffic, lower traffic growth, no increase in vehicle operating cost
on existing roads, higher construction costs and operating costs higher than
assumed on the improved roads indicates that, even with these variations,
the overall economic return, 27% (Table 12), and the first year benefit ratio
(14%), remain acceptable.
5.12      The economic return calculation has taken into account the likely
employment effects of the project (para. 5.10). On the basis of data supplied
by local contractors, the additional employment generated by the improvement
program would provide up to about 1,000 additional jobs over the project
period. This figure does not, of course, represent the whole employment
impact, since there would be secondary effects arising from expenditures
made by beneficiaries of incomes generated by the project.



- 23 -
C.   Asphaltic Resealing
5.13      The proposed asphaltic resealing would help preserve pavements
which, although currently sound, are in danger of becoming porous and vul-
nerable to damage from entry of surface water if no action is taken to re-
seal them. Investment in resealing now would thus produce benefits from
deferment of investment in reconstructing such pavements. This element of
the project has been evaluated by comparing the cost of resealing now with
the present worth of reconstructing the road if it were allowed to fail.
Specifically, if the resealing cost (about US$12,000 per mile) were less
than the present cost of reconstruction in a future year, the proposed invest-
ment in resealing now would be justified (Table 13).
5.14      It is not possible to determine exactly, for each road section,
when failure would take place without resealing. For evaluating purposes
it was first assumed that failure would occur four years hence and that
reconstruction then, including rehabilitation of the base course and
asphaltic overlay, would cost about US$30,000 per mile. Since reconstruction
then would imply an economic life longer than the 10-year period used in the
project analysis, a present worth of the salvage value of the reconstructed
road in year 10 has been estimated to arrive at the net cost of reconstruction
in year 4. The analysis indicates that it would be economically advantageous
to reseal now, rather than to do nothing now and reconstruct in four years'
time; the economic return for resealing now is about 19%. If road failure
were assumed to take place not in four years' time, but in two years' and
six years' time, the economic returns on resealing now would be 25% and 14%
respectively; obviously, the sooner failure would take place, the more jus-
tifiable the proposed resealing. The possibility of failure beyond six
years from now was not considered because it would imply that the pavement
is currently in good condition. These economic returns can be considered
conservative in that they do not take into account the increase in vehicle
operating costs in the "without case" as the road pavemLent progressively
breaks up.
D.   Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment
5.15      The benefits from the provision of road maintenance and workshop
equipment have been assessed by considering the annual benefits that would
be required to produce an economic return of 10% on the cost of such equip-
ment (US$2.4 million).  Assuming an average life for the equipment of seven
years, the annual benefits required would be about US$500,000, or about
US$250 per mile per year. If, on the roads to which the investment would
relate, there was an ADT of about 200 (equivalent to about 73,000 vehicles
per mile per year), this would imply benefits in the form of savings in
vehicle operating costs of USJ 0.3 per vehicle mile (Jamaican e 0.3 per vehL--
cle mile, approximately).  These savings represent only a few percent of cur-
rent vehicle operating costs (Table 10), and it is obvicusly reasonable to
assume that such a modest improvement in operating costs can be made as a
result of the improved maintenance from the new equipment. The investment
in the new equipment is therefore justified.



- _24 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOITMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, thle Government agreed to the followinhi-
(a)  revision, within three years of the date of the Loan Agreement.
or such other period as shall be agreed between the Government and
-lie Bank. of the Road Traffic Regulations (1) to appropriateLy
iefine permissible vehicle w:eights and axle la. 'n ;s for all
vehic.le4 and (2) to review thie road user charges in relation
to vehicles which are licensed to exceed normally permissible
limits in order to see if the charges can reflect more ade-
quately the effect of operations of such vehicles on the road
network (para. 3.08):
(b) collection on a continuing basis of basic traffic and technical
data, including the conduct of studies, as and when necessary,
for transport planning and policy formulation (para. 3.11);
(c)  appointment and retention within the Directoratc of Maintenance
of three qualified engineers as "county engineers', one pro-
fessional civil engineer, a senior administrative officer and
an accountant, with duties and responsibilities to be agreed
with the Bank and to be reviewed from1 time to time in the light
of changing circumstances (paras. 4.08, 4.09 and 4.10);
(d) introduction of costing of road maintenance operations within
a time limit to be agreed with the Bank (para. 4.11);
(e)  phasing out of the practice of negotiated contracts, apart
from petty contracts or in exceptional circumstances, within
two years of the date of the Loan Agreement or such other
time as the Government and the Bank may agree upon (para.
4.12);
(f)  preparation of a comprehensive five-year nationali road main-
tenance plan expressed in monetary and physical terms wJithin
one year of the date of the Loan Agreement or sticu1 further
period as the Government and the Bank may determioe (para. 4.13);
(g)  provision of annual budgetary allocations for road maintenance
at the present level, in real terms, pending implementation of
the five-year maintenance plan (para. 4.13)
(h)  preparatory work necessary for the design of tho asphaltic
overlay and the restoration of pavement profile (para. 4.22);
(i)  elimination of thie worst of the geometric features of the
roads to be improved prior to commencement of the road improve-
ment work (para. 4.24);
(j)  improvement of roadside drainage on the roads to be improved
(para. 4.24).



- 25 -
6.02      Conditions for loan effectiveness will be (a) the appointment of
the professional staff mentioned in paragraph 6.01 (c) preceding and (b) the
signature of a contract with a firm of consultants acceptable to, and on
,terms and conditions agreed by, the Bank for the technical assistance.
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for a loan of US$9.3 million
equivalent. On the basis of the average useful life of asphaltic overlay
and resealing and the length of the project duration, the appropriate term
for the loan would be 15 years, including a five-year period of grace.
M4ay 8, 1973






JAIMAICA
HDAD IIXROVEIENT A1iD MAINTEI.IANCE PROJECT
Road Network  / (1972)
(miles)
Bridle
Paved           Gravel            Path
ARTERIAL ROADS
- Island Belt Road  I                        377
- Kingston - Annotto BayJ                     23
PUBLIC ROADS        - Spanish Town - St. Ann's BayS               28                -                -      h61
- Savanna-La-Mar - Luce @/                    23                -                _
- Kingston - Port Roya                        10-                                -             2619
SECONDARY MAIN ROADS                           1605              553                -    2158            9883
PARISH COUNCIL  (in all thirteen parishes).                     131h          -4302                 1648           7264
ROJADS
k  3380             4855
8235
(Suitable for vehicular traffic)
.2/  EExcluding private roads                                                    9883
g/   ThRunning generally around the periphery of the island
3/   The main north-south cross country roads                                                                                  r
Round Kingston Harbour and to Kingston International Airport.
Source:   Jamaica Transportation Study (LVI)  1970
TPOS Road Maintenance Study 1972
JTar'rl t rv 197 3



JAMAICA
iIDAD IMPIDVEM&4NT AID Ur4TEMANCI :-.1JECT
Expenditure on Roads 1965-1973
(In US$ millions)
Financing
Jamaica Fiscal Year               Construction     Maintenance        Administration    TOTAL      Foreign li Local
1965-1966                      5.6               3.5                1.2           10.3        -          10.3
1966-1967                      6.6               1.5                1.2           12.3       0.1         12.2
1967-1968                      7.8               4.4                1.6           13.8       0.4         13.4
1968-1969                      8.6               4.2                1.4           14.2       0.8         13.4
1969-1970                      9.9               4.6                1.7           16.2      05          15.7
1970-1971                     14.0               5.4                1.7           21.1       2.0         19.1
2/               2/                  2/
1971-1972                      18.0              6.0-                2.9-         26.9       2.4         24-5
2/               2/                  2
1972-1973                      20.6-             8.3-                3.2-/        32.1       2-.7        29.4
Including expenditures on all arterial, secondary main and parish roads.
1/ It includes financing from TBRD (Loan 408-JM) CIDA (On-going Jamaica Transportation Survey) and USAID
-   (on-going Rural Roads Program).
2/  Mission estimate.
Source:  Ministry of Works, Consultants and M4ission Estimates.
December 1972
January 1973



JAMAICA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road User Charges
(In US$ millions)
Excise duty on   Import duties on     Customs duties  Excise duty  -License duty on Road traffic
Fiscal Year   tubes and tires  road motor vehicles  on gasoline     on gasoline   motor vehicles  license duty   TOTAL
1967-1968           0.1              5.8               0.3              6.8             0.1           4.7          17.8
1968-1969           0.5              6.3               1.0              7.6             0.1           5.2          20.7
1969-1970           0.6              5.1                -                9.4            0.1           6.2          21.4
1970-1971           0.7             10.3                               10.4             0.2           6.5          28.1
1971-1972           0.9             12.4                               12.6             0.2           7.7          33.8
Source: Ministry of Finance
December 1972
January 1973                                                                                                              L



JAMAICA
iDAD IMPMVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Details of Proposed Asphaltic Overlay 1ork
(Costs given in OOOs J $)
Present   Partial  Total                Total     Total
ADT     Condition  Length   Length   Overlay  Financial  Economic
1972  (Road Class) (miles)  (miles)    Cost        Cost 2    Cost 3/
Arterial Roads                                                                       376.9      4873      5575       5248
1. Great River-Ocho Ris-White River Bay                 3000      1.50                66.5      1008       1159      1089
2. White River Bay-Port Antonio-Fairy Hill and                              64.7
Hectors  River-Morant Bay-Bull Bay                  1000       2.00      36.0    100.7       1146      1317       1237
3. Bull Bay-Rockfort (Kingston) and                                          5.4
Mandeville-Gutters                                   3400      1.50      10.8      16.2       258        297       279
4. Gutters-Black River-Savanna-La-Mar                   1000      1.75                51.6       596        686       644
5. Fairy Hill-Hectors  River and                                            17.0
Savanna-La-Mar-Negril-Lucea                          500       1.75      34.9     51.9        518       580        551
6. Lucea-Great River                                    1700      1.75                16.7       251        289       271
7. Constant Spring-Toms  River                          1900      1.75                11.0       174        200       188
8. Toms  River-Agualta Vale                            1300       2.00                11.4       157       181        170
9. Mount Diabolo-Moneague-St. Ann's Bay and                                 18.1
Moneague-Ocho Rios                                  1300       2.00      10.5      28.6       449       517        485
10. Spanish Town-Bog Walk-Mount Diabolo4/               2800      1.50                22.3       316       349        334
Secondary Main Roads                                                                 62.1        903      1068        991
ll.Savanna-La-Mar-Glasgow and                                               11.2
May Pen-Trout Hall5/                                1300       1.75      10.1     21.3        328       392        362
12. Glasgow-Lucea                                                            7.9
Williamsfield-Oxford-Maggotty-Lacovia                                    28.9
Browns Town-Discovery Bay5/                          500       1.75       4.0     40,8       _575       676        629
T O T  A L                                   439.o       5776                6a39
1/ "Road Class" was a concept devised by TPOS and is essentially a function of surface roughness.
2/ Including 10% for supervision and 5% physical contingenmies.                  (See para. 5.07
3/ Finar.ial cost adjusted by using shadow prices for unskilled labor.            and Table 10)
/ This road may be excluded from the program if its reconstruction is decided.
j A part of this road wil1 be excluded from the project if its reconstruction  under the IDB project is undertaken.
Source: T. P. O'Sullivan & Partners and Mission Estimates.
May 1973



TABLE 5
JAMAICA
IRCJAD IMPROVE4TT A-D MAINTENANCE PROJECT
List of New Equipment and Estimate of Cost
Type of Equipment                     Nos.       Unit price                Total price
CIF Kingston              CIF Kingston
in US$
Personnel carrier type
landrover, pick-up or similar          75        4,800.                     360,000.
Flat-bed trucks 5 to 7 tons            60        9,000.                     540,000.
Tipping trucks 7-10 tons               40       10,000.                    400,000.
Graders, medium about 105 HP            6       24,000.                     144,000.
Front loaders, about 1-1/2 cu ya       13       26,ooo.                     338,000.
Bitumen distributors, about 1500 gal. 4         18,000.                      72,000.
Pneumatic tyre rollers, about 10 ton  6         14,000.                      84,ooo.
Vibrating rollers, hand operated       13        2,500.                      32,500.
Air compressors 100 to 150 CFM
with tools                            13         3,500.                     45,5oo.
Miscellaneous equipment                                                      90,000.
Workshop equipment and tools                                                 90,000.
Spare parts about 10% of equipment cost                                    204 000.
2,400,000.
Source: TPOS Road Maintenance Study, November 1972
Mission and Government Estimates.
January 1973



JAMAICA
ROAD IMPROVFMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance to be Provided by the Consultants 1973-197&
Time Schedule
Duration of
Qualification and Position                                       Years                                Service
(man-months)
1st       2nd        3rd        4th      5th
Senior Civil ahgineer with experience in                             -               I           -
highway administration, road maintenance       -'                 i
and training (Team Leader).                       1                                               - -  _______
Civil Engineer with experience in planning            Ii
and procurement of road maintenance works   .44-i                     I_K   .t33
(Planning Engineer).                                                                    I
Civil Engineer with experience in systems                                                                     2b
and procedures (Systems Analyst).
Mechanical Engineer with experience in           i
procurement, operation and maintenance of                                                                     21
road equipment.                                  i
Accountant with experience in budgeting,         |i
costing and accounts for road maintenance           _                                 I                       21
oDerations.
Three Civil Ehgineers with experience in        -                             I
road maintenance work carried out by con-                                                                     60
tract and force account (Field Engineers).                            -                                       60
Consultant's main office support.                                                                              3
Total                                -                                                                       222
Source:  TPCS Road M.ainterance Study 1972 and lMission and Government Estimates.
April 1973



TABLE 7
JAIMAICA
ROAD INPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
J$'000                          Us$0OOO            Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total   Component
I.   Road Improvement and
Maintenance
(a) Provision of Asphaltic
OverlayiA              2,890    3,180    6,070         3,180    3,500    6,680        52
(b)  Asphaltic Resealingl/    1,500    1,100    2,600          1,650    1,200    2,850        42
(c)  Preparatory works2-       1,700      -       1,700        1,870       -      1,870       -
Subtotal I.               6,090    4,280   10,370         6,700    4.700   11,400
II.  Purchase of Equipment         -       2,180    2,180           -      21400    2,400      100
III. Technical Assistance          200       870    1,070           220      960    1,180       81
IV.  Contingencies
Price 3/
Cate gory
I     10%                     609      428    1,037           670       470    1,140
II    719                      -       164       164           -        180      180
III   6%                       12       52        64            13       57        70
Physical
Category
I     5%                      305      214       519          335       235      570
II    71g                      -       164       164            -       180      180
III   10%                      20       87       107            22       96      118
Subtotal IV                 946  1,10    2,055 1,040                         2,258
Total                     7,236    8,439   15,675         7,960    9,278   17,238
In round figures          7,240    8,440   15,680         7,960    9,300   17,260       54
Say                                     8.0        9.3    17.3
1/ Includes allowance for work to restore road profile prior to asphaltic overlay and resealing.
2/ Improvement of bends and of roadside drainage.
3/ Price escalation contingency is based on 6% annual increase for civil works and 5%
for equipment and technical assistance.
Source: TPOS Road Maintenance Study, November 1972
Taru' -iZ! Stsion Estimates.



TABLE 8
JAMAICA
RCAD 11TROVEMENT AND MAINTENARCE PROJECT
Estimtated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                                     Cumulative disbursement
and quarter                                                         at end of Quarter uS$'o0o
1973/1974
September 30, 1973                                                             250   2/
December 31, 1973                                                              600
March 31, 1974                                                               1,750
June 30, 197h                                                                2,900
1974/1975
September 30, 1974                                                           4,100
December 31, 1974                                                            4,600
March 31, 1975                                                               5,100
June 30, 1975                                                                5,600
1975/1976
September 30, 1975                                                           6,400
December 31, 1975                                                            6,800
March 31, 1976                                                               7,300
June 30, 1976                                                                7,700
1976/1977
September 30, 1976                                                           7,950
December 31, 1976                                                            8,250
March 31, 1977                                                               8,500
June 30, 1977                                                                8,750
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                                                           8,900
December 31, 1977                                                            9,150
March 31, 1978                                                               9,250
June 30, 1978                                                                9,300
Proposed closing date December 31, 1978.
1/   Estimates of disbursement are based on percentage of disbursement and project program.
2/   Includes retroactive financing of category III.
Source: Mission estimates.
Assumptions: --Bidding of improvement works would be in mid 1973 and works would start
in third quarter of Fm1973 and would spread over five years in following
proportions: 15%, 30%, 30%, 20% and 5%.
--Equipment would be purchased 75i in the first year and 25t in the third year.
--Technical assistance would be contracted according to Table 6.
.rSPla7rlyg



JAMAICA
RCIAD IIIr7TUVEIZT LNID MAr'NTEITAII':CE P-()JECT
Tirn;     ' r?7Tr2ic LeveI~3 and '-rX-wh
Traffic Growth -
Road Section                       ADT             Cars      Li- k.  1S ledium  '->,.cks  H'eavy Trucks           3uses
Arterial Roads                    1972    (1)          (2)             '        (1)    -)   (1)    (2)        (1)      (2)
1. Great River-Ocho Rios-
7'hite River Bay                3,000          9.0             7.C             5 0            L.5               6.0
2. '..hite River Bay-Port
Antonio-Fairy Hill and
Hectors River-Morant Bay-
Bull Bay                        1,000   8.o         9.0  8.- .5                4.5            3.0               5.0
3. 3ull Bay-Rockfort (Kingston)
and Mandeville-Gutters          3,400          q*0             8.:             7.0            7.0               6.0
4. Gutters-Black River-
Savanna La Mar                  1,000          7.r             7.r             8.5            8.5               5.0
5. Fairy Hill-'Hectors  River
and Savanna-La-Mar-Negril-
Lucea                             500   5.0         7.5  5.c          *7       4.5            4.5                3.2
6. Lucea-Great River               1,700   10.0         8.0        7.0             4.5           4.5                5.6
7. Constant Spring-Toms  River   1,900    8.5           7.5  8.5        7.5       4.5            4.5                3.2
8. Toms  River-Agualta Vale        1,300   8.5         7.5  8.5         7.5       4.5            4.5                3.2
9. Mount Diabolo-doneague-St.
Anns' Bay andMoneague-Ocho Rios 1,300    8.1        8.5  8.1         8.5       7.0            7.0                5.4
inc. Spanish Town-Bog l.alk-Mount
Diabolo                         2,800          8.7             8.7             7.0            7.0                5.4
Secondary Main Roads
1. Savanna-La-Mar-Ulasgow  nd        00
May Pen-Trout Hall      a       1,37.5                                          .0              .5               5.
12. Glasgow-Lucea )
'illiamsfield-Oxford
Maggotty-Lacovia - and
Sro,Wms  lown                                                                                                    5-4
~~00  7.5     0              4-5             4~~~~~.05. 
Discovery Bay                      500
Ti) irst five y,ears of ser-ice
(2 Second five years of service
Sourcs:  '.P.0 Sullivan Sr Partners and Thission Estimates.
January l)7'



JAAIAICA                             TABLE 10
ROAD T,TAPROVEMENT A9D I INTEMANCE PWEJECT
TyEical Vehicle 0perating Costs (a)
(In Jamaican cents per Trlle'
1Medium        Large
Speed/Vehiclcis               Cars        Vans       Trucks         Trucks          Buses
I. Road Class 1.00-/
15                     12.7        15.9        34.8           3.9           33.9
20                     10.6        12.9        27.9           3J.2           27.9
25                      9.4        11.2        23.6           28.'           23.9
30                      8.6         9.3        21.0           26.            21.6
35                      8.1         9.1        19.6           24.7           20.5
40                      7.8         8.6        18.6           23.5           19.7
45                      7.7         8.3        17.9           23.3           19.3
2/
II. Road Class 2.00-
15                     13.9        18.3        40.8           50.1           42.3
20                     11.8        15.1        3j.2           42.2           35.1
25                     10.5        13.1        28.4           37.0           30.4
30                      9.8        11.8        25.8           34.3           27.9
35                      9.4        10.9        24.4           33.4           26.8
40                      9.1        10.5        23.5           32.0           26.1
45                      9.0        10.1        23.1           32.2           25.9
III. Road Class 3.00 /
15                     16.3        21.8        50.5           66.4           55.7
20                     13.4        18.0        40.7           55.4           45.3
25                     12.1        15.5        34.6           48.1           38.6
30                     11.1        13.8        31.0           43.5           34.6
35                     10,4        12.6        29.1           41.1           32.5
40                     10.0        11.7        27.8           39.6           31.0
45                      9.7        11.1        26.4           38.2           29.6
'ay  For thepurposes7 of this project the vehicle operating costs do not include the
incremental operating cost of curves and grades since the proposed investment does
not change alignments.  Average vehicle operating costs may well be up to 20, higher
on each class of road respectively when due allowance is made for curves and grades.
iNote: For road classes classified between 1.00 and 2.00 and between 2.00 and 3.00,
vehicle operating costs have been interpolated.
1/  First class roads (1no) are paved wivh a surface irregularity, measured by the burp
integrator, of less than 25 inches per mile.  Average speed on level tangent roads around
40 mph.  The lane width would generally be at leas-t 12 feet with 6 feet shoulders on
either side.
2/  Second class roads (2.00) are paved roads in poor condition with a surface irregularity o-f'
115 Inches per mile.  TLypical speed is around 32 nph.  The lane -width is at least
9 Seet but there may be no shoulders on the road.
3/ Third class roads (3.00) are gravel roads anu badly failed paved roads with a surface
irregularity of at least 200 inches per mile and have not been engineered. Typical speed is
around 15 mph.
Source:  '.P.0'Sullivam D Partners and Mission Estimates.
January 1973



TABLE 11
JAMAICA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Interpolated Values of Vehicle Operating Costs for Road Classes
of Project Roads
(In Jamaican cents per mile)
Cars!/                Medium               Large  /
Trucks              Trucks
Road Class 1.25
20                              10.9                   29.2                 35.4
25                               9.7                    24.8                30.7
30                               8.9                    22.2                28.1
35                               8.4                    20.8                26.9
40                               8.1                    19.8                25.6
45                               8.0                    19.2                25.5
Road Class 1.50
20                              11.2                   30.6                 37.6
25                              10.0                    26.0                32.8
30                               9.2                   23.4                 30.2
35                               8.7                    22.0                29.1
40                               8.5                    21.1                27.8
4>5                              8.4                    20.5                27.8
Road Class 1.75
20                              11.5                    31.9                39.9
25                              10.3                   27.2                 34.9
30                               9.5                    2h.6                37.3
35                               9.1                    23.2                31.2
40                               8.8                    22.3                29.9
45                               8.7                    21.8                30.0
Road Class 2.00
20                              11.8                   33.2                 42.2
25                              10.5                   28.4                 37.0
30                               9.8                   25.8                 34.3
35                               9.4                   24.4                 33.4
40                               9.1                    23.5                32.0
45                               9.0                    23.1                32.2
2 The proposed project would increase the car average running speed from 35 m.p.h.
on road Class 1.50, 1.75 and 2.00 to 40 m.p.h. on road Class 1.25.
g/ The proposed project would increase the truck average runnin- speed from 30 m.p.h.
on road Class 1.50 to 35 m.p.h. on road Class 1.25 and from 25 m.p.h. on road ClPss
1.75 and 2.00 to 30 m.p.h. on road Class 1.25.
Source: T.P. O'Sullivan and Mission Estimates, March 1973.



TABLE 12
JAMAICA
LOAD INPgJVEMENT AND MAFNTElNANCE PROJECT
Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity analysis;
Road Section                                  Best Estimate           all "worst" cases
combined l/
By Road       Consolidated By Road    Consoihdatee
Section       Average       Section       Average
Arterial Roads
1.  Great River-Ocho Rios-White River Bay  Greater than                      20
50%
2. White River Bay-Port Antonio-Fairy             "                          37
Hill and Hectors River-Morant Bay-
Bull Bay
3.  Bull Bay-Rockfort (Kingston) and              "                          23
MandevilIle -Gutters
4. Gutters-Black River-Savanna-La-Mar             "                          29
5. Fairy Hill- Iectors                           if                          12
River and Savanna-La-Mar-Negril-Lucea
6. Lucea-Great River                              "t                         38
7. Constant Spring-Stony Hill-Toms  River        "                           15
8.  Toms River-Agualta Vale                      "                           39
9. Mount Diabolo-MIoneague-St. Ann's Bay and   "                             50
Moneague-Ocho Rios
10. Spanish Town-Bog Walk-Mount Diabolo          it                          11
ALL ARTERIAL ROADS COMBINED                              Greater than 50%                  30
Secondary Main Roads
11. Savanna-La-Mar-Glasgow and May Pen-          "                           26
Trout Hall
2/
12. Glasgow-Lucea                                "                             3
Williamsfield-Oxford-Maggotty-Lacovia
Browns Town-Discovery Bay/
ALL SECONDARY MAIN ROADS COMBINED                        Greater than 50%                  13
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM AS A WHOLE                           Greater than 50%                  27
I/ (1) 2g% decrease in initial traffic level and in traffic growth
(2) No increase in vehicle operating costs on existing road
(3) 25Z increase in economic cost of construction
(4) 5% increase in vehicle operating costs on improved road
2/ This road has been included,\with most inputs varied one at a time; economic return
is in the range of 26% - 43%; with inputs varied two at a time, the return iS still
acceptable (20% - 25%).  Only if all four inputs are varied as indicated in
a very unlikely possibility - is the return so low.
Source:  Mission Estimates
January 1973



JAMAICA
ROAD INPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Asphaltic Resealing
With Project:                            lWithout Project:                   Without Project
Year                 Resealing                                 Reconstruction                   Net Present Reconstruction
Cost
Resealing        Salvage      Reconstr.        Salvage Value (1)               Deferment Alternatives
Cost          VJalue         Cost          Deferment Alternatives
I       II         III           I         II         III
0              12000
(12000)
2                                             20000
(16500)
3
4                                             30000 I
(2o5oo)
5
6                                             45000
(25400)
7
8
9
10                                                           8000    16,500      315o0
(3100)   (6,300)   (12100)
Net Present Cost    12,000                                                                           30 140           130
13400  14200      iL-
(1)  Assuming 20 years of economic life for the base and 10 years for the pavement;
each one of t.hree items accounting for 50% in the reconstruction cost.
Source: Mission Estimates.
Mlarch 1973






ANNEX I
JANAI CA
ROAD IPIPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Traffic Law
Road Traffic Regulations 1938
Vehicle Weights
The Road Traffic Regulations (Consolidated Reprint published
November 10, 1971) state, inter alia:
For public passenger vehicles
- that the sum of the weights transmitted to the road surface by all
wheels of a public passenger vehicle shall not exceed 31,360 lbs and that
the weight so transmitted by any axle of the vehicle shall not exceed 17,920
lbs 1/ (Regulation 58).
For vehicles other than public passenger vehicles
- that for articulated vehicles, the maximum laden weight shall not ex-
ceed 45,000 lbs and that for a truck (other than a public passenger vehicle),
the maximum laden weight shall not exceed 27,000 lbs, provided that the maxi-
mum laden weight of any vehicle shall not exceed the weight fixed by the
manufacturer of such vehicle (Regulation 150).
- The Minister (charged with the responsibility for the subject of
transport) may (on the recommendation of the Chief Technical Director) grant
a special permit for the use or operation on any public road, of a motor
vehicle, the gross laden weight of which exceeds the limit in the regulations.
For each special permit so granted, a fee of E 1.00 p.a. for each 1,000 lbs
or part thereof in excess of the gross weight or laden weight specified by
the regulations, shall be charged (Regulation 151-1).
1/   i.e., 14 tons per vehicle and 8 tons per axle.
February 1973






JAMAICA
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Works
Minister of Works
Parliamentary Secretary_
Permanent Secretary
Assistant Under Secretary               Chief Technical Director                    Assistant Under Secretary                 Assistant Under Secretary   I
Administration                                                                         Personnel                                    Finance
Director of Technical              Director of Electrical                           Director of Maintenance               recto-                    Director of Ma_or
Services                        and Mechanical Services                                                              Co nstructoion                  Projects|
Architectural Branch               WorUshons Branch                                  Six Field Area Branches            Buildings Branch            Planning Section
(roads and buildings)
Lands and Survey Branch            Electrical Installations                         Kingston and St. Andrew             Road Construction           Major Projects
in Buildings Branch                              Cornorate Area (buildings)          Branch                      Section
Quantity Surveying and             Equinment Pool                                    (See Chart 2)
Contracts Branch
H-3
Civil Engineering Branch
Source: TPOS Road Maintenance Study 1972
January J973



l



JA.AIC.u
ROAD           NTPovENEN  AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Stn'cture of the Dtrectorate oP Malntenance
(See Chart 1)
Director of Maintecance
rz.r-
Senior Superintendent                Executive OEfifcer|
M1 Itaintenance       I       \   Grade l  
El v oii                                                              I! C}Eddletex Countv |Cornvd;lloon Cot                                 /
I                .                  _             II----l------ ----
___~~                  I_ ,.-.I                                                                  II                             
Anel                        Are. 2                        Area 3                   Are  4                    Area S                     Aren 6rea?
Senior                       Senior                      Seni                        nior                    Si                            ior                       Senior
Superintendent              Su-erintendent               Superintendent            Sunerintendent            Sunerintendeot             Superintnent                 Suoerintendent    2/
PARISHSS
,   0  .:              ,c* .r '-0'                                                                     .                       n.   00       j0                  t0       _
| 6d subdi-visions|
digtrib.ted L.
L 13 Ps rish er-L
11The 'County' Level is not currently tn the Di,,,t ...te!s Organizational structure
2tArea 7 is co,nce-rned only with maintenance of b,,ildtngs in King.L.n Coro-rte Ar,e.
Sort TPOS Road Msi.te..-le Study 1972
January 1973






E Q ~~~~~~~~~~TR                                                       Ww;;:T:                     7; :''31 T  ' ;'77                                                                                                                                                       :n      0 3      ;k  -7;R R~l nTLL  lWs  BRIE  10337
i- '. ! _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PS                                                                                                                   CTOSA.MRHH
. N  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Jl\  RA                         N D<   1            L    L                 / f Sesu   > 
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I   A
ROAD  IMPROVEMENTv AN2DY ' /oti BARR1\d   ARE0Nf                                                                                                                      sdW|                    XS7YHI@-    
R MAINTENANCE QPRJECTX                                                               \           A            D           V< 'STCATdERINE4XJF >'w    
flRSECOND        AT                                                          E PROJCTL    A
C                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
4i   MAlTA PORTS                                              .                 :t a         !       z             -     TB PXAIR b    L   C S
*~  INTERNATIONAL AIRPO9tS                                       I                               R4:*                  
-        PARISH ROANDARIES                                                                                                   A                                                                      T RT IL
ACOUNTY  OUNDARIES OTr,E \CTHAA                                                                                                              T        A  Tr 'll II BA    N
-   -   IPITERNATIONAC BOUNDARIES       PaR R              rgS lACY CHRCTRAAR AR AAR?PrProH bv ARb
L P'idb@sidaD4Ld/SAAAA77AI3M A                        AA  N 0I.R77;A0'IHS   30'



