D%om"o of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Iqput No. P-6000-SOL
ORD   AND RECOHHOATION
OF THE
TERNALTIONAL DEE NT ASSOCIlON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN MMOIUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 12.2  rILLION
TO THE
SOLOOND ISLANDS
FOR THE
THIRD J)UC&TION ARD TRAINING PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1993
'i +l Q   JM - ;': i- rU  TEjjt- Fr   i)-
'.ue.   lJw r ^   ;itl->l.<-ANT.l   T7s/I!578. '
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia duties Its contents may not otherwi  be disclosed witht World Bank utorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1993)
Currency Unit - Solomon Islands Dollar (SBD)
US$1          - SBD 2.93
US$1          - SR, 1.355570
SBD I         - SDR 0.3210
IEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL A
January 1 to December 31
ABBRVISATIONS
AIDAM    - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
cup    - Gross National Product
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
IDA    - International Development Agency (World Bank)
IPU    - Implementation and Planning Unit (within MIRMD)
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
IEEHRD   - Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development
MEMS   - Ministry of Health and Medical Services
MOPEP  - Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIW    - Ministry of Trausport, Works and Utilities
PCR    - Project Completion Report
BID    - Solomon Islands Currency (dollar)
SICdE   - Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
sIG    - Solomon Islands Government



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
SOLOMON ISLANDS
THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Solomon Islands
Amount:                SDR 12.2 (US$16.9 equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
inanmcial Plant                           Local     Fore ian     Total
Government                          1.1          -          1.1
Japan Grant                         0.5         0.3         0.8
IDA                                 6.3        10.6        16.9
Total                          7.9       10.9        18.8
Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Staff Arnaraisal
Report:         Report No. 11566-SOL
Maps              IBRD No. 24488
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties, Its contents may nOt otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORNDUM AND RECOMEINDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
SOLOMON ISLANDS
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1. *      I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on the proposed Credit to the Solomon Islands for SDR 12.2
(US$16.9 million equivalent) to help finance a Third Education and Training
Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA teams, with a 40 year maturity.
PART I: Country Policies and Bank Grouui's Assistance Strategv
A. BackAround
2.        Development performance in the Solomon Islands, which became
independent in 1978, is influenced by aspects of size and geography that the
country has in common with some of its South Pacific neighbors but which
distinguish it from the bulk of the developing world. First, it is a small
country, with a population of 338,000 and a GDP of around $200 million.
Second, it is archipelagic in nature, comprising six main islands and many
smaller ones extending over almost 1300 kilometers of ocean; this feature
makes it difficult to develop a domestic market and increases the unit costs
of providing basic public services. Third, it is remote in location with
respect to major external markets, being over 2000 km away, for example, from
Australia, the closest large economy. While the constraints imposed by
smallness fal go can often be overcome, the combined effects of size, spread
and remoteness significantly limit the scope for gustained high growth.
3.        Economic activity is dominated by export-oriented production
involving tree crop plantations, commercial fishing, and logging; a large
public services sector; and a subsistence agricultural sector that provides
the main source of livelihood for over 80 percent of the population. The
economy has seen little structural transformation in the past decade. The
manufacturing sector remains minuscule, contributing less than 4 percent to
GDP. Exploitation of natural resources has been rapid, but the benefits have
largely accrued to foreign investors. The economy is highly open, with
exports (fish, timber, cop=a, palm oil and cocoa) and imports (consumer goods
and light machinery) being equivalent to roughly 40 and 50 percent of GDP,
respectively. Consequently, economic performance is strongly influenced by
changes in the external teams of trade and the availability of foreign
exchange.
4.        GDP growth fluctuated around a trend rate of about 2.8 percent per
annum during the 1980s. While this performance was better than in most
neighboring island countries, it was disappointing in relation to the
potential offered by the country's generous resource base. Per capita income
growth was negative during the 1980. as population grew at a rate of 3.5
percent, among the highest rates in the region and the world; unlike many of



-2-
its neighbors, the Solomon Islands does not have a tradition of overseas
migration to relieve the effects of population preesure. Social indicators
improved slightly from low levels, but remain below those in neighboring
island countries. At present, the country faces significant challenges in
improving its health and education status. Faster social and economic
progress is hindered by, among other factors, rapid population growth, lack of
skilled manpower, and productivity losses caused by an extremely high
incidence (45 percent) of malaria.
Table As REY MACRO IND,CATORS, 1981-91
1981     1985    1987      1989      1991
;ns'cator Levels (Us$ million)
GDP (at current prices)     ui.a    93.2     164.5    218.3    210.4
Govt. Reveaues (incl. grauts)  41.3    22.0   51.8      58.4    55.2
Govt. Expenditures          46.5    29.3      67.6      60.4    69.3
Govt. Budget Deficit        10.3     7.8      19.8       3.1    14.8
ExpoRt. (fob)               66.2    70.1      64.0      74.7    83.5
Imports (elf)               91.1    69.3      62.4     114.4    110.1
Curreant Account Deficit    44.2    22.4      21.0      70.4    72.6
;Jacro Balances (t GDP)
Budget Deficit              U.a      8.4      12.0       1.4     7.0
Current Account Deficit     n.a    24.0       13.0      33.0    34.5
Foreign Public Debt          n.a.    54.0     29.0      20.0    25.0
Domestic Public Debt         n.e.    n.e.     19.0      16.0    29.0
Memo Items (2 p.a.)
GDP growth (1984 prices)    6.3      4.6       2.4       6.2     3.0
Inflation (CPI, Boniara)    16.4     8.7       6.3      10.8    11.2
Source: Central Bank of Solomon Islands.
B.  Recent Develonments
Economic Performance
5.         Recent economic performance has been marked by low growth, high
inflation, substantial fiscal imbalance, and a weak external position. Annual
average growth of real GDP was only 3 percent during 1986-91, continuing the
declining trend in real per capita income. At 13 percent per snnum (1992
estimate), inflation was much above that in trading partner countries. The
fiscal and current account deficits are currently running at around 10 percent
and 22 percent of GDP respectively (1992 estimates). Net foreign assets were
only sufficient to cover 1.8 months of imports by the end of 1992.
6.        The main causes of the poor performance of the economy in recent
years includes a major cyclone in 1986 which led to massive destruction of
crops and infrastructure; a 20 percent deterioration in the terms of trade
since 1987s and fiscal imbalances arising initially from expenditures incurred
because of the cyclone and subsequently (in 1990 and 1991) from rapid growth
in current spending. The expenditures necessitated by the cyclone of 1986
were covered to a significant extent by additional inflows of foreign aid and
the initial surge in the fiscal deficit was quickly brought under control.



- 3 -
However, current expenditures proved difficult to restrain after external aid
flows declined to normal levels in 1988-89; this fuelled another surge in the
deficit which has yet to be controlled. Three components of current
expenditure proved especially troublesome.  Public sector wages and salaries
rose through a series of awards to civil servants and teachers. Subsidies and
transfers to provinces and public enterprises rose, partly in line with
decentralization initiatives. Interest payments rose as much of the deficit
was financed through relatively expensive domestic borrowing: the ratio of
domestic public debt to GDP jumped from 16 percent in 1989 to 29 percent in
1991.
7.        Recent macroeconomic management raises several concerns.  First,
domestic debt servicing obligations will remain a source of pressure on the
budget for several years to come and could affect spending priorities.4/
Seconds the increase in public borrowing has (partially) crowded out the
private sector, adversely affecting business confidence and the rate of growth
of private investment. Third, external assistance has declined in recent
years partly because of donor concerns about the content and direction of
macroeconomic policy.
8.        The Government of the Solomon Islands has been engaged in a
discussion of stabilization and adjustment measures with the World Bank and
tne International Monetary Fund over the past twelve months. A draft Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) has been prepared but formal negotiations have yet to be
held. The need for stabilization has also been highlighted in the latest
Country Economic Memorandum, (Report No. 11351-EAP, Volume 5), dated
December 21, 1992.
Social Sector Developments
9.        The nature and extent of subsistence activities in the Solomon
Islands is such that the poverty problem there is more accurately
characterized as one involving inadequate humn resource development rather
than mass hunger and malnutrition. At Independence in 1978, policy makers had
to grapple with a population barely exposed to modern standards of education
and health care. Adult literacy stood at only 15 percent, enrolment in
schools was low at the primary level and negligible at the secondary and
tertiary levels, infant mortality rates were high, malaria was rampant, and 90
percent of the population had no access to potable water supplies. Health
services were rudimentary and grossly inadequate.
10.       The Government responded to this situation, with the consistent
support of the donor community, by investing heavily in education and health
care. There have been improvements over the past decade or so but it would be
fair to say that much more remains to be done. As the data in Table 2 show,
literacy and school enrolment rates remain lov while infant mortality remains
high and access to health care remains poor. In relative terms, the Solomon
1/   The external debt situation, however, appears manageable with the debt
service ratio running at around 5 percent; this reflects the predominant
role of grant funds and concessional loans in the profile of external
assistance.



Table 2:  SOCIAL INDICATORS, 1978 AND 1991
Indicator                          Units       1978         1991 Lo-
Infant mortality rate              per '000      42           43
Total Fertility rate               per '000     6.9          6.1
Life expectancy at birth
- Male                         years         n.a.       59.9
- Female                       years         n.a.       61.4
Population per doctor:             persons      n.a.       7,474
Net enrollment ratios /b
- primary                      percent         60         90
- secondary                    percent         25         17
- tertiary                     percent          1          4
Adult literacy                     percent         15         30
/L  Or most recent estimate.
lk Based on the definition of the Statistins Office.
Sources Statistics Office, Solomon Islands; World Bank. "Social Indicators of
Development," 1992.
Islands lags behind most of its neighbors in human resource development.
Among the factors that have influenced achievements in this important area
ares rapid population growth, which has kept increasing the level of demand
for social services; the high unit costs of providing social services in the
physical environment presented by the Solomon Islands; and inefficiencies in
the institutional arrangements evolved over the past decade to deliver such
services.
11.       An additioral cause of concern is that the progress that has
occurred has been placed at risk by the fiscal crisis of recent years which
has resulted in a decline in the budget share of health and education
expenditures. Outlays for primary and secondary education were cut from 18
percent to 11 percent of the (recurrent) budget during 1988-91 while health
expenditures were cut from 6 percent to 5 percent. The effects of this
cutback in social expenditures will most likely become apparent in the medium-
run in the form of stagnation or decline in the social sectors. In some
areas, the effects may already be visible. For example, infant mortality and
malaria incidence rates, which had declined to the mid-1980s, seem to have
risen in recent years.
Bank Group Portfolio Exoerience
12.       To date, five IDA credits in the sum of $17 million have been made.
These have supported: development of primary and secondary education;
agricultural research, extension and infrastructure; development banking; and
road building and maintenance. The bulk of the credits (around 60 percent by
volume) have gone to the education sector and were cofinanced with the
Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB). Three



- 5 -
projects were handled under an errangement with the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) wherein appraisal and supervision were primarily performed by ADB staff.
All of these credits have been fully disbursed, end we have no ongoing
supervision or implementation activities in the Solomon Islands.
Table 3: BARK LENDING ACTIVITY !a
Credit
Project                                      pi             Amount
($ million)
Development Bank of Solomon Islands (ADB)        81              1.50
Primry Education (AIDAB)                         82              5.00
Rural Services (ADB)                             84              3.50
Guadalcanal (ADB)                                85              2.00
Secondary Education (AIDAB)                      87              5.00
Total                      l ZI.OO
la Cofinanciers identified in parentheses.
13.       IDA assisted projects have had a mixed experience.  Most have
suffered delays on account of deficiencies in the implementation capability of
counterpart agencies and/or because of the lack of counterpart funds. Most
have been unable to make significant progress in institutional development.
However, despite these factors, only one project (development banking) has
been rated unsuccessful and unsustainable by the Operations Evaluation
Department. Two projects (primary education and roads) have been rated
successful, though marginally sustainable. The PCR on the Rural Services
Project also indicated doubts regarding sustainability. Our most recent
credit, for secondary education, was disbursed on schedule (see para. 41 for
lessons drawn from supervision).
14.       The chief lesson that may be derived from our lending experience so
far is the need to ensure project sustainability. There are three aspects to
thist financial, institutional and cultural. The first aspect relates to the
difficulty of obtaining counterpart funds, on a timely basis, for
implementation as well as for the purpose of assuring complementary and
follow-up investments. The second relates to deficiencies in implementation
capability which have plagued all IDA projects despite anticipatory
adjustments in project design. The third aspect arises from features unique
to the socio-cultural context of the Melanesian islands. It is especially
important to tailor projects to the cultural context in the education sector,
since there is a well-established tradition of active local community
involvement here, and the proupects of sustainability are considerably
enhanced if such involvement is assured at the outset.



C. The External Environment
15.       The external environment ie a major determinant of economic
performance in the Solomon Islands. Three elements of the external
environment merit special attention: the terms of trade, foreign aid
(including assistance from multilateral development banks), and direct foreign
investment. The terms of trade are critical in that the economy is very open
in a macroeconomic sense (i.e., ratios of trade to GNP are high) and trade is
concentrated in a few commodities. The most important exports of the Solomon
Islands' are fish, timbers and copra. Together, these account for 80 percent
cf export earnings. Movemeuts in the prices of these items have a strong
Impact on the balance of payments and, ultimately, on the level of recorded
economic activity. Similarly, economic activity is strongly influenced by the
prices of key imports, such as capital goods, oil, and foods these affect not
only investment but also government and private consumption. The volatility
exhibited by the GDP growth rate is a direct consequence of the economy's
heavy reliance on a narrow range of traded product.. In recent year., falling
merchandise terms of trade have cortributed to the anemic performance of the
economy.
16.       Foreign aid is of critical importance to both macroeconomic
performance and to the public sector investment program. Typically, external
grants provided by bilateral donors have been equivalent to a third of total
revenues, half of the budget deficit, and two thirds of development
expenditures. Indeed, virtually the entire public investment program is
financed by concessional external assistance (including funds from
multilateral development banks). Without such flows, public investment levels
would have been far lower than witnessed, and social and economic development
much more modest. On the other hand, there is some concern that the
exceptionally high levels of aid (when measured on a per capita basis) have
tended to reduce private sector competitiveness through inappropriate wage
norms set in an aid-supported public sector. In recent years, the Solomon
Islands has received an average of $40 million per annum in aid; this amount
could rise if improvements occur in policy reform aud project implementation
capability.
17.       The role of direct foreign investment is increasingly being
recognized as important. While actual flows have tended to be modest
(averaging less than 10 million dollars per annum), such investments have the
potential to diversify the economic base by providing not only capital but
also technology, design, and export market information. On the other hand,
much foreign investment has tended to concentrate in natural resource based
activities (such as logging, mining and fishing), and there is concern that
the involvement of large foreign firms has led to an unsustainable rate of
resource extraction with high environmental costs. Managing the flow of
direct foreign investment so that its positive aspects are accentuated and its
negative aspects mitigated will pose a major challenge to policy makers.
18.       External finance requirements over the medium term will depend to a
great extent on the Government's approach to stabilization. If fiscal
discipline is restored soon, the pressure on the trade balance will moderate,
leading to a lower level of foreign exchange requirements than recently
experienced (see Table 4). Improvement in the terms of trade, already evident



Table 4s External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1992-2000
(US$ million per annum at current prices)
Est.imates             Prolectsion
1989-1991        1992-95    1996-2000
Requirements                        76.1              63.1          54.8
Sources:
Private remittances                  0.3               2.3          -2.4
Official grants                     35.4              35.8          37.2
Public loan disbursements            5.3              12.1           6.1
Other capital (net) /a              35.1              12.9          13.9
L-  "Other" includes direct foreign investment and errors and omissions
Source: Bank Staff Estimates.
in 1992 and forecast to continue over the medium term, would also help narrow
the trade deficit. Grants would remain the moat important source of external
finencing, followed by concessional loans. The latter could rise
significantly over the next few years if credible steps are taken towards
stabilization and adjustment. Over the longer run, however, the flow of loans
will most likely be conditioned by absorptive capacity.
D. Country's Development Obiectives and Policies
19.       Discussions connected with the recent economic report and draft PFP
exercises indicate that achieving macroeconomic stability, greater investment
efficiency and a diversified economic base are among Government's top
priorities. Macroeconomic stability can be achieved primarily through a
reduction of prospective fiscal deficits. This, in turn, essentially involves
a reduction in the size and cost of the public sector, necessitating wage and
salary restraint as well as a restructuring of agencies and responsibilities.
As far as revenues are concerned, efforts directed at changing the composition
of the revenue base (tc achieve efficiency and equity objectives) would be
preferable to increasing tax rates since the revenue to GDP ratio is already
quite high at around 26 percent.
20.       Greater investment efficiency must come primarily from improvements
in public resource management. This is necessitated by present and
prospective fiscal constraints, on the one hand, and the growing demand for
public services, on the other. The crisis is perhaps most acute in the social
sectors where investment outlays have been cut in recent years despite serious
deficiencies in health and education attainment. Government hopes to bring
about improvements by reorienting public spending priorities to concentrate
resources on operations and maintenance of physical infrastructure and on
social sector development; by commercializing public enterprises, with
transfer to private ownership in appropriate cases; and by undertaking
institutional reform and capacity building.



21.       The need for diversification arises from the pres&at high degree of
dependence on a narrow set of primary commodity exports some of which face
increasingly difficult market prospects and some of which involve significant
environmental costs. Copra, one of the main traditional sources of export
earnings, no longer appears to be an economically viable export alternative.
Also, timber exports will likely decline as forest resources dwindle under
excessive logging. The Bank Group's latest country economic report discusses
strategies for #timulating smallholder production of food and cash crops,
livestock, fisheries and forest products. It also reviews options and
strategies for developing manufactures and promoting tourism as a means of
broadening the sources of income, employment and foreign exchange.
22.       Government hopes to diversify the economic base by encouraging the
private sector to invest in a variety of different activities. It proposes to
promote this bys streamlining investment approval (and incentive-granting)
procedures; facilitating access to land for development and commercial
purposes through expedited surveying and registration of customary land and
the expansion of industrial estates;s/ and enhancing access to funds through
development banks and venture capital initiatives.
23.       The Bank Group concurs with these development objectives ef the
Solomon Islands Govern=ant and also with some of the measures identified to
achieve them. In particular, we endorse the desire to protect social sector
spending so as to maintain progress in human resource development. These
issues and others are highlighted in our most recent Country Economic
Memorandum and have been the subject of discussions as well with the Pund.
However, formal agreement on a specific set of stabilization and structural
adjustment actions has not yet been reached.
S. IDA Program of Assistance
24.       The Bank Group's program of assistance to date has comprised a
limited amount of economic and sector work and a modest lending portfolio.
Economic advice has been channelled primarily through the country reports
prepared biannually under the rubric of the Regional Economic Report.
Recently, another channel has been opened in the form of discussions of a
Policy Framework Paper. Sector work has typically taken the form of country
chapters/volumes within regional studies; in recent years, studies have been
conducted on the energy, transport, and education sectors.-/  Lending
operations have been coordinated with other donor agencies (such as ADB, AIDAB
and the EC) and have focussed primarily on human resource development and
infrastructure.
2/ The issue of access to land is a sensitive and complex one involving the
rights of individuals, clans and villages and sanctioned by custom and
practice rather than legal doctrine and procedures. The lack of titles
and set procedures has impeded the use of land for commercial and
development purposes.
3/ IDA's operational activities in the Solomon Islands are supported by a
grant facility from AIDAB. This facility has funded several region-wide
exercises including, most recently, the Regional Economic Report. It bas
also funded project preparation activities.



-9-
25.       We propose to continue a macroeconomic dialogue with country
authorities in conjunction with the INF. The PFP process haa not yet been
finalized.  It is hoped that a firm internal consensus on structural reform
measures vill emerge after the parliamentary elections in June, 1993 and the
PEP dialogue will resume. We also propose to maintain contact with the
authorities and to update our information base through periodic staff visits
and economic memoranda.
26.       IDA's lending activities will continue to be shaped by three
considerations: the very limited absorptive capacity of the country, the
relatively plentiful supply of grant assistance to it, and the need for donor
coordination. Accordingly, we anticipate doing only a few operations over the
next several years, including the education project presently under review.
We shall concentrate our lending on the human resources sector which we feel
is of great consequence to the achievement of a higher standard of living for
the bulk of the population and where we can build on our project experience
and sector analysis. As far as other sectors are concerned, they are probably
best handled by other donors who have historically been more active in them
and have acquired some comparative advantage therein. At most, we would
expect to provide supplemental resources in these sectors, should there be a
demand for the same. Our operational work will continue to be characterized
by coordination and consultation with other donors in macroeconomic as well as
sector and project matters.
27.       The Solomon Islands has made good progress towards the completion
of a National Environmental Management Strategy. The major environmental
problem facing the country is the rapid loss of tropical forest. At current
rates of exploitation, it has been estimated that economic forest resources
could be exhausted in a period of about 15 years. To avoid this outcome, the
bank, together with the Government of Australia, has supported the preparation
of a tropical forestry action plan. We have called for the establishment of a
forestry pricing system that ensures sustainable resource use and a higher
contribution of forest product exports to national and local revenues. We
hVe also recommended an increase in public support for reforestation efforts
and greater emphasis on social forestry programs.
28.       IFCIMIGA Activities.  The IPC does not have any projects in the
Solomon Islands. It is, however, assisting in the preparation of two projects
through its South Pacific Project Facility.
Summary Assessment
29.       There are three main categories of issues that affect the Bank
Group's lending operations in the Solomon Islands. On the macroeconomic side,
there is the need for stabilization and adjustment measures to be undertaken.
On the project side, the concern is mainly with financial and implementation
capability of the borrower, on the one hand, and the channelling of
investments to high priority sectors, such as health and education, on the
other. While the latter are of obvious importance to development performance,
the former may also become important if indiscriminate budget cuts become part
of a future adjustment strategy.



- 10 -
30.       The thrust of Bank Group strategy is to continue a macroeconomic
dialogue with the Government in the context of our ESW and the PFP and to help
it achieve an adjustment path that does not jeopardize critical infrastructure
and social sector investment plans. At the same time, the Bank Group proposes
to continue funding investments in the health and education sectors while
addressing financing and implementation capability concerns within the design
of individual projects.
31.       We propose to evaluate progress in our dialogue with Government as
follows:
(a) we intend to monitor the evolution of the fiscal deficit and its
key components on the spending side; we would look for reductions
in the fiscal deficit to be brought about primarily through wage
and salary restraint and for changes in budget composition that
seek to increase real spending on health and education; and
(b) we intend to assess improvements in financial and implementation
capacity through criteria discussed in more detail in the
description of the project below.
Part IIs  Sector and Progect Details
32.      BDckfround.  Improving access to and the quality and relevance of
education and training programs has been a priority concern for the Solomon
Islands Government (SIG). This task has been difficult because of:
(a) declining public allocations for education expenditures (from 23 percent
of total public spending in 1987 to 15 percent in 1991), and (b) a rapid rise
in educational demand owing to a population increase of about 3.5 percent per
annum with a large proportion (47 percent) under the age of 15.
33.       Rapid enrollment expansion led to the current primary gross
enrollment of about 90 percent. However, in spite of two successfully
implemented IDA projects, there are serious quality problems: (a) 27 percent
of the primary teachers are unqualified, (b) there are shortages of
educational materials, and (c) only about 30 percent of the entering cohort
are completing grade 6. At the secondary level, gross enrollment ratios are
very low at 20 percent and 5 percent for junior secondary (JS - grades 7 to 9)
and senior secondary (SS - grades 10 and 11) respectively, due to a lack of
student places. Only four schools in the country offer a full secondary
program to Form 6 (grade 12), resulting in one of the lowest secondary
completion rates in the world. Female participation in education is low at
secondary and tertiary levels at 36 percent and 23 percent, respectively.
34.       Only 22 percent of the economically active population have
secondary qualifications in contrast to the Pacific Countries' average of
62 percent. Even in the public sector, only 40 percent of SIG staff have
completed grade 10. Grade 11 graduates, who are the preferred cand4 dates for
the public service and by private sector employers, are in short supply and
this level is often a minimum entrance requirement for regional and
international specialized training programs. In the educational sector, the
system's limited grade 11 output seriously constrains the ability of the
Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development (tME D) to train



- 11 -
sufficient numbers of teachers needed for the future expansion of primary and
secondary education. Thus, expansion of secondary education is a critical
step for reducing skill shortages and upgrading the quality of public
administration in the long term.
35.       Other issues in secondary education includet  (a) high unit -oots
of boarding schoolss (b) duality in quality, curricula and facilities between
national secondary schools (NSS: grades 7 to 11), and provincial secondary
schools (PSS: grades 7 to 9); (C) shortages of textbooks, educational
materials, and facilities such as staff houses; and (d) the low level of
qualifications of national secondary teachers which results in expatriates
filling nearly a quarter of the core subject teachers positions at the senior
secondary level.
36.       Management of the sector is still weak at all levels, although this
has been strengthened somew. t during the last two years by returning overseas
graduates. There is a lack of clear administrative procedures and
coordination mechanisms between the central government and the provincial
authorities, who administer 70 percent of the social services budgets.
Assessment procedures such as examinations are particularly weak. School
principals are not adequately trained to take a leadership role. Many senior
officials assume multiple administrative responsibilities, because of
shortages of qualified and experienced personnel.
37.       The delivery of health services is adversely affected by the
limited availability and quality of staff aLt the Government's health
facilities. The country's approximately 400 nurses are the main providers of
preventive and curative health care, for there are fewer than 30 doctors.
Nurses carry the main burden of addressing the major health problems (malaria,
respiratory and diarrhoeal diseases) and providing critical services to women
and children, particularly in rural areas. About 50 percent of the current
workforce will retire in the next decade. Facilities for the single nursing
school urgently require upgrading and expansion c.'d the present curriculum
should be improved to equip future nurses with the skills necessary to ensure
effective health services.
38.       Government aoals and strateav in the education sector are to:
(a) reduce the secondary bottleneck caused by the lack of student places
particularly at grades 10 and 11, and increase the participation of females;
(b) improve educational quality at all levels; and (c) improve and expand the
Solomon Islands College of Higher Education (SICHE) training programs for
nurses and midwives. These sectoral priorities have been developed through
studies and discussions conducted with key donors and the World Bank.
Consultations between central and provincial educational authorities have led
to a broad agreement on policies, including the decision to re-centralize some
procurement functions. SIG is aware that the above are ambitious goals given
the country's limited resources. They therefore intend to capitalize on the
integrated use of resources from the World Bank and bilateral donors, who
agreed to extensive coordination and a complementary support strategy during
two donor conferences.
39.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Two previous IDA Credits in
education supported: (a) primary school expansion, supply of educational



- 12 -
materials, and teacher training (Cr. 1212-SOL); and (b) the construction and
equipping of three provincial junior secondary schools as vell as teacher
training (Cr. 1686-SOL). The proposed project would be a natural extension of
previous projects int (a) continuing to support secondary expansion with the
focus shifting to senior secondary education; (b) maximizing the benefits from
the secondary teacher training inputs of the previous project; (c) assisting
SIG to improve its administrative capacity and efficiency; and (d) focussing
on quality improvement at both primary and secondary levels.
40.       IDA has also played a catalytic role in assisting SIG/MEHRD to
identify investment priorities for the rationalization and development of the
education sector. This has led to the bilateral donors agreeing to assist SIG
in implementing the sector investment program mainly through technical
assistance and limited equipment supply. Bilateral assistance to be provided
under separate financing agreements signed with SIG would amount to about
US$4.6 million with about US$2.0 million from Australia, about US$2.0 million
from ODA/United Kingdom and about US$0.6 million from New Zealand. Bilateral
resources will fall short of the needed investment level in the sector,
especially for the secondary expansion. As a result, SIG/MEHRD officials
continue to look to the World Bank for financial support, and for policy
advice.
41.       The Main Lessons Learned.  The Primary Education Project was
completed in 1989 and the Secondary Education Project was completed and
closed, as scheduled, on December 31, 1992. The Project Completion Report
(PCR) of the Primary Education Project indicated that the project had
generally achieved its goals, but that future projects needed to pay more
attention to policy, management and sustainability issues. Other lessons
include: (a) expansion of school places needs to be better matched by careful
planning of teacher supply with respect to grade 11 candidates and required
teacher training outputss (b) more analysis of recurrent costs is required so
that replenishment and maintenance policies can be systematized with the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MOEEP); and (c) clearer
communication channels among MOPEP, provincial authorities and MEHRD need to
be established to increase the involvement of the provinces at the planning
and implementation stages to increase sustainability. As for the Secondary
Education Project it is now clear that: (i) a combination of returning
graduates (products of the previous project) and timely employment of
technical assistance (TA) have increased MEHRD's implementation capacity; (ii)
in spite of increased implementation capacity, inter-Ministry management and
financial processes still require attention; and (iii) having sector
specialists play a key role in review visits has contributed to enhanced
implementation. It was also realized that an integrated national education
strategy was needed. The proposed project incorporates features to address
the lessons drawn from past experience.
42.       Project Obiectives and Scope.  The project wouldt  (a) expand
access to secondary education by about 40 percent, particularly at the senior
level, while increasing female participation to 45 percent; (b) initiate
lower-cost day schools for secondary education at the village level and
increase parental participation; (c) improve the quality of primary and
secondary education through teacher upgrading and in-service training,
curriculum inputs and increase the availability of educational materials;



- 13 -
(d) enhance the efficiency and management of the educational system;
(e) expand the supply of nurses and midwives; (f) strengthen budgeting and
financial planning to promote the rationalization of the education sector; and
(g) undertake the emergency rehabilitation or reconstruction of education
facilities damaged or destroyed by Cyclone Nina in January 1993.
43.       Proiect Description.  To achieve the above, the project would
support:
(a) construction and supply of equipment for additional academic
facilities, v.th a focus on female boarding facilities, in eight
provincial secondary schools;
(b)  construction and supply of equipment for five new day junior
secondary schools in selected villages;
(c) assistance to the Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
(SICHE) to upgrade about 60 existing qualified junior secondary
teachers in the content of priority subjects, to teach at the
senior secondary level;
(d) provision of textbooks and educational materials for primary and
secondary education, first, by reprinting existing and suitable
education materials and second, by printing and distributing
revised/adapted materials developed under the project;
(e) in-service training programs for primary teachers in the use of the
updated curriculum materials;
(f) provision of training assistance for all levels of HEHRD and
provincial staff (support, middle and higher) in budgeting,
computing and management/planning skills;
(g) school principals training and national/provincial conferences to
improve staff pedagogical and management skills;
(h) technical assistance for curriculum development and project
management activities;
(i) focussed studies in the review of examination and assessment
procedures and standardization of planning data;
(j) construction of additional facilities and supply of equipment for
nurses and midwife programs at the SICHE campus and at off-campus
sites for practical training; and
(k) rehabilitation and reconstruction of classrooms and staff houses
damaged or destroyed by Cyclone Nina.
44.       The proposed project would help finance procurement of civil works,
equipment, consulting services, training, and incremental operating costs.
The total financing required for the project is estimated at US$18.8 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$10.9 million (58 percent).



- 14 -
A breakdown of project coats and the financing plans are shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and methods of procurement, allocation of credit proceeds and the
disbursement schedules are in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in the Solomon
Islands are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map is also attached.
The Staff Appraisal Report No. 11566-SOL, dated April 20, 1993 is being
distributed separately.
45.       Proiect ImDlementation and Sustainabilitv.  The Implementation and
Planning Unit (IPU) of the MEHRD will be responsible for overall coordination
of the project in cooperation with the MOPEP and provincial authorities.
NEWED technical units will be responsible for specific components. SICHE will
work closely with MEHRD/IPU for the teacher training and nursing training
components, based on agreed policies and output needs. The IPU, established
under the previous IDA-financed education project, is fully staffed and has
acquired experience in IDA implementation procedures. Preparat3on of
construction documents will be contracted to local firms in consultation with
the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTPW).  In addition, short-term
technical assistance for project management and procurement matters will be
covered by the project. MEHRD has agreed to establish a financial plan in
cooperation with MOFEP and the Ministry of Provincial Government, including
monitoring mechanisms for the physical and financial aspects of the project to
facilitate financial sustainability. To ensure timely execution of the
project, site surveys and civil works designs and a review of the programs for
teacher upgrading and nurse training have been initiated with the assistance
of a Japanese Grant of about US$800,000.
46.       Benefits.  This first sector-wide project would be part of a
coordinated donor effort to address quality, access and equity issues in the
sector. The secondary school expansion would increase the secondary gross
enrollment ratio from less than 10 percent to about 18 percent of the age
cohort while increasing female participation. The pilot village junior
secondary day schools would contribute to: (a) reducing unit costs, and
(b) encouraging greater community participation in school maintenance and
operation. The increased supply of educational materials, and better-trained
principals, inspectors and teachers would all contribute to raising the
quality of educational services, which in turn should help reduce dropout
rates. The implementation of a financial plan would assist SIG/NEHRD to
rationalize financial allocation, increase cost recovery measures and sustain
the programs. Management training would improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of programs at the central, provincial and school levels.
Nurses training would alleviate the immediate shortages and contribute to
better health services throughout the nation.
47.       Risks.  The most serious risk is the lack of clear administrative
procedures within SIG, especially with the inclusion of the emergency cyclone
relief component, which could potentially strain its implementation capacity.
A second key risk is SIG's difficult fiscal situation. This could lead to a
shortage of counterpart funds during implementation and later weaken project
sustainability. Another risk is the possibility that the supply by other
donors of volunteer teachers and project related TA, although committed, might
not be forthcoming in a timely manner.                 -



- 15 _
48.       The above issues and risks were discussed during appraisal and
negotiations. The recent successful implementation of the Secondary Education
Project of about US$16.0 million equivalent (IDA and AIDAB), under already
difficult economic circumstances, demonstrates that the project is within
Government's capacity. Consultation between central and provincial agencies
has occurred and operational procedures are being drafted to facilitate
implementation. The project will benefit from a good number of returning
graduates, and by short-term TA in management, procurement and civil works
introduced during project processing. The project will also be assisted by
the implementation of a financial plan which would help all concerned to keep
track of required funds for proj&ct sustainability.
Atreed Actions
49.       During negotiations SIG gave assurances to IDA that they would:
(a) Carry out every year a demand and supply analysis for secondary
schools teachers;
(b) Undertake an annual review of education indicators;
(c) Implement procedures for distributing educational materialss
(d) appoint a representative of the Ministry of Health and Medical
Services to the SICHE Council and create a nurse advisory committee
within SICHE's council;
(e) Furnish IDA with proposed arrangements for carrying out off-campus
nurse training program;
(f) Prepare staff and nursing training programs and implement them as
agreed with IDA;
(g) Conduct annual reviews to rationalizse education sector financing;
(h) Appoint staff and consultants as agreed with IDA, to implement the
project; and
(i) Carry out annual and mid-term project implementation reviews.
50.       Conditions of Disbursement.  As conditions of credit disbursement
funds will only be disbursed for the construction and equipping of project
schools when IDA has received: (a) a list of the schools to be rehabilitated
or reconstructed, including detailed cost estimates for each school based on
selection criteria and construction design satisfactory to IDA; and
(b) evidence that all land and rights for all project schools have been
secured.



- 16 -
51.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 26, 1993



- 17 -                           Schedule A
SOLOMON ISLANDS
THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financina Plan
Estimated Costs:                            Local       Foreitn      Total
--------- US$ Million -------
Secondary education expansion                 3.0        3.8          6.8
Teacher upgrading                             0.1         0.2         0.3
Curriculum and materials                      0.7         1.8         2.5
Nurses training                               1.1         1.3          2.4
Staff development                             0.1        0.3          0.4
Project management and studies                0.2         1.1          1.3
Cyclone relief                                0.9         1.1         2.0
Baseline Costs                         6.1         9.6         15.7
Contingencies:
Physical                                   0.4        0.7          1.1
Price increase                             1.4        0.6          2.0
Subtotal                                1.8        1.3          3.1
Total Prolect Cost /a                   7.9       10.9         18.8
Financial Plan:                             Local       Foreiran     Total
---------- uS$ Million -------
Government                                    1.1          -           1.1
Japan Grant                                   0.5        0.3          0.8
IDA                                           6.3        10.6        16.9
Total                                    7.9       10.9         18.8
/a As nearly all good and construction materials would be directly imported
for the project, taxes and duties would be negligible.



- 18 -                        Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
SOLOMON ISLANDS
THIRD EDUCATION MAD TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Total cost
Procurement Method             including
Category of ependiture         ICB      LCB      Otherl.e    NBE   contingencies
Civil works                     9.1                                     9.1
(8.6)                                   (8.6)
Equipment, educational          0.7      0.4        1.4                 2.5
materials, textbooks and    (0.6)    (0.4)        (1.3)               (2.3)
school supplies
Technical assistance /b                             1.7       0.8       2.5
(1.7)               (1.7)
Training                                            1.3                 1.3
(1.3)               (1.3)
Studies                                             0.2                 0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
Project management and                              1.2                 1.2
incremental operating costs /c                    (0.8)               (0.8)
Cyclone relief:
Civil works                         1.6       0.2                  1.8
(1.6)     (0.2)               (1.8)
Equipment, educational   0.2                  0.0                  0.2
materials, textbooks  (0.2)                 (0.0)               (0.2)
and schools supplies
Total                         10.0       20         6.0       0.88
(9.4)    (2.0)      (5.5)              (16.9)
Note:  IDA-financed amounts are in brackets, including contingencies.
NBF - not IDA-financed (Japan grant).
la Includes prudent shopping, selection of consultants following IDA
Guidelines, direct procurement of proprietary items and printing of
educational materials by the CDC.
Lb Includes professional services for civil works.
Ic Includes additional administrative expenditures for the IPU, increases in
operating costs of the secondary schools and the School of Nursing not
covered by school fees, operation and maintenance of vehicles, travel
costs, off-campus lodging and allowances for nurses and salaries and
allowances for additional SICHE staff.



-19-
Page 2 of 2
Category                         AMout SDR   S of epeanditures to be fianmced
1. Civil works                      5.7       951
2. Equipment, educational           1.5        100l   of foreign expenditures,
materials, textbooks,                      1001 of local expenditures
furniture and school supplies              (si-factory cost) and 701 of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Technical assistance             1.2        1001
(includ$.ng professional services
for civil works)
4. Training                         0.9        1001
5. Studies                          0.1        100l
6. Project management and           0.6        OO1 PY 1993 and 1994
incremental operating costs                 701 FY 1995 and 1996
301 TY 1997 and 1998
7. Cyclone relief:
(a)  Civil works                1.3       1002
(b) Equipment, educational    0.1         1002 of foreign expenditurest
materials, textbooks,                 100  of local expenditures (ex-
and school supplies                  factory cost) and 701 of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
8. Unallocated                      0.8
RshWaated 2sbukramentsu
IDA PY                         19       a     ma    mz    ma    ma
Ammual                           1.6    1.4    4.1    3.3    2.2    1.7
Cumulativ                        1.6    540    9.t   150   15.2   16.9



- 20 -                           Schedule C
SOLOMON ISLANDS
MhIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Tifetable of Key Proiect Processina Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                       12 months
(b)   Prepared bys                                Government
(c)   First IDA Mission:                          November 1991
(d)   Appraisal Mission departure:                October 29, 1992
(e)   Negotiations:                               March 15, 1993
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:              September 30, 1993
(g)   List of relevant PCR's and PPAR:
PCR of Solomon Islands Primary Education Project
(Credit 1212-SOL).
This project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Solomon Islands in October/November 1992. Mission members wero
Mr. A. Aime, Sr. Education Planner; Ms. S. Takeda, Economist; Dr. M. Porter,
Medical Specialist; Messrs. B. Masters and R. Rawlinson, Education
Consultants; and I. Morris, Health Economist Consultant.  Poer reviewers were
Mr. J. Rouag and Mme. C. Valdivieso. Mmes. Marianne Haug, Director, EA3DR and
Himelda Martinez, Chief, EA3PH have endorsed the project.



- 21 -
hedule D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOLOMON ISLANDS
A.  STA5EMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1993) J
Amount (USS million)
IDA
Credit  Fiscal                                       Original Principal    Undis-
number   Year   Borrower          Purvose            (less cancellationi  bursed
Five credits fully disbursed                                 14.89
Total                                                        14.89          C.00
of which has been repaid                                    0.08
Total now held by IDA                                        14.81
Amount sold        0.0
of which repaid 0.0
Total undisbur-ed                                                           0.00
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT8 Las of March 31, 19931
None
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



,~  -,                                           .r            H,r                . ..    .                ,SE'    ,,       ,'               ,                            13RD 2448a
PAPUA X_
NEW  GUINEA                                                                                                   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE   UINEA  EEH?rH'4A,SW  .-   4CeAN
NEW  GUINEA                                                           5cc/South     : Pc,c XfXc     (b)ceon                                YfW GUIYEA _>           RltAlh      n > >                          50VTA/ F,/c  OceanOCt4,
Bow    W@'1                                                                                                                                    PAP      N      GINEA                                   I 1
jOUGAINVLhChL N  5                                                                                                                                                                            apB
I'                               HQSmEUL
N  CHQISEIJL              *                             ~~~~~~~~~~Malaita o04A                                                     -'"~' 
SHORTLAND,E''Ue                                                                                                                                                               i.d 
ISLANDS                                                                                                 U5HBEL                                                                         L S             ISLAND
At                                                                                                                                      CORAI  S '.s   /   EW GEORG A   So  N   +=   @   JUAASECONtOA
r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONQ                                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USTRALIA EHCITS0   U dU EU  EE
ISLANES                                                                             4                                   Ah                           1                I                 W                IT
I;'                             161'                             S
LLA UVELLA  ~      ~          ISanta  Isabel
SOLOMON ISLANDS
I                       ~~~~~~~SANTA ISABEL
<41)                                                                                                                 JHIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
SW GEORGIA                                                                                                             * JU   SUMQ OMUINSET OGF 4I
Central  ~           AENEAK 'sod          Ol   UscaNsafsIa>,                                                                             f    Y     y        t                    a      >ics
A     *                                                                               I.                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDECAsaNtSICHI NURSLq/IMHR TPACG
Easer I   s      l     n      d     s      I           i    ' ""1                    Sa,                  6.                         dISH                A    NUSTEEN FAaUIHE5{
NEW   GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                       N fANt 4a,,  AT
ISLANDS                                                                                                                                                         ROAM .nI  7 
*is ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    yqHH );-   IoguU                                       ij'
Western                                       ''ztv---.----.-Z  
VAEGNUK,,o                          i                                                                               SOfeSO  0 q  4 o 1          
~~4LTEKCI  I                                         RoAd.,,          M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AITA    -  - aokbA
EUSSELL ISLANDS                '         SS
~~ U.&.AE.udHH.Ie~~~~~~~~~~tZ  ~~~~~Izri"                                                                       LAtHES                 MAhud  ~~~~~~~~~~~Malaita  F
L-----------             - ------ --------IS              i--                     -- -  --   -  d--  -- --
INSET A                             EncP,o.            INSET B
Central Islands                    "                      EFEAE                                                                                                      
Eastern Islands                                                                                                                               CR
SELIUSE                                                                                    I   M..wS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L HLCANAL 
5 -  16,EI*6,6t                                                                          *6,^                                                                          .      NGuadalcanalH'
Makirao/ Ulawa
NELL                            ~~~~~~~~SANTA  CRUZ           ,.jcentral Islands
I SL AN DSI-
VANUCOO                              'SANKIRISAI.
lEA?                                                       EH~~~~19LOMETIS50    w  w      I    I                            MB
H II'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY19



