Document of
The Wor'ld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11566- SOL
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOLOMO ISLANDS
THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1993
,,.   . -   '_' !;   ,, 14  ;  0 i   {T    ".1;  
*  -   rT 11 T,  -'A.L
Population and lumm Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted disibuton and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not oewise be disdosed witot Wordd Bank authoizaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1993)
Currency Unit = Solomon Islands Dollars (SBD)
US$1.00          = SBD2.930
SBD 1 Million    = US$335,570
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AHC        -    Area Health Center
AIDAB      -    Australian International Development Assstance Bureau
AIDS       -    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV)
CDC        -    Currimulum Development Center
DPH        -    Department of Public Health
EEC        -    European Economic Community
GSO        -    Government Supply Office
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA        -    International Development Agency (World Bank)
IMR        -    Infant Mortality Rate
IPU        -    Implementation and Planning Unit (within MEHRD)
iSS        -    Junior Secondary School
LCB        -    Local Competitive Bidding
MEHRD    -    Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development
MHMS       -    Mtinistry of Health and Medical Services
MOFEP    -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPG        -    Ministry of Provincial Government
MTWU       -    Ministry of Transport, Works and Utilities
NZ         -    New Zealand
NSS        -    National Secondary School
ODA/UK   -    Overseas Development Agency - United Kingdom
PCR        -    Project Completion Report
PDTWU    -    Provincial Dept. of Transport, Works and Utilities
PEO        -    Principal Education Officer
PSS        -    Provincial Secondary School
RHC        -    Rural Health Clinic
SDO        -    Staff Development Officer
SICHE      -    Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
SIG        -    Solomon Islands Government
SOE        -    Statement of Expenditure
SPBEA      -    South Pacific Board of Examination and Assessment
SS         -    Secondary School
SSS        -    Senior Secondary School
STD        -    Sexually Transmitted Disease
TA         -    Technical Assistance
TORs       -    Terms of Reference
UNESCO   -    United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Org.
USP        -    University of the South Pacific
WHO        -    World Health Organization



SOLOMON ISLANDS                     FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
TH[RD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT Am PtoC  SummRY
Borrower:    Solomon Islands
Amount:       SDR 12.2 million (US$16.9 million eqvalent)
Terms:        Standard DA, with 40 years maurity
Project
Description:  The project would: (a) expand access to secondary education by about
40 percent while increasing female participation to 45 percent;
(b) introduce lower-cost day secondary school education at the village
level; (c) improve the quality of primary and secondary education
through teaher upgrading and in-service training, curriculum inputs
and increased availability of educational materials; (d) enhance the
efficiency and management of the educational system; (e) expand the
sv'ply of nurses and midwives; (I) strengthen budgeting and financing
v. nning to promote the rationalization of the education sector; and
g) underak  the emergency rehabiittion or reconstruction of
education facilities damaged or destroyed by Cyclone Nina In
Janmary 1993.
To aieve the above, the project wouwld support (a) construction of
additional academic and fmale boarding facllities and supply of
equipment at eight provincial secondary schools; (b) extension of
faciiti  and supply of equipment at five village primary schools, to
pilot lower cost day junior secondary schools; (c) assistance to the
Solomon Islands College of Highe Education to upgrade about 60
junior secondary tachers in priority subjects to teach at the senior
secondary level; (d) provision of textbooks and educational materials
for primary and scndary education by reprinting existing education
materis and printng and distriting revised/adapted maters
developed by the project; (e) in-service traiing programs for primary
tachers in the use of the updated curriculum materials; (f) provision
of training assistance for: () all levels of Ministry of Educvation and
Human Resources Development and provincial staff in budgeig,
computing and management/planning skills; (1i) school principals; and
(iI) national/provincial conferences to improve staff pedagogical and
management skills; (g) provision of technical assistance for curriculum
development and project management activies; (h) support for
planning and asessment studies; (i) contuction of additional facilites
and equipm     for nurses and midwifery programs; and 0)
This document has a rmsticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofAcl dutis Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
rehabilitation or reconstruction of classrooms and staff houses damaged
or destroyed by Cyclone Nina.
Beneft:       This first sector-wide project would be part of a coordinated donor
effort to address quality, access and equity issues in the sector.
Secondary school expansion would increase the secondary gross
enrollment ratio from less than 10 percent to about 18 percent of the
age cohort while increasing female participation. The pilot village
junior secondary day schools would contribute to: (a) reducing unit
costs, and (b) encouraging greater community participation in school
maintenance and operation. Increased supply of educational materials,
and better-trained principals, inspectors and teachers would all
contribute to raising the quality of educational services, which in turn
should help reduce the dropout rates. Management training would
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programs at the central,
provincial and school levels. Nurses' training would alleviate the
inmediate shortages of health personnel and ontrbute to better health
services throughout the nation. The emergency support for school
rehabilitation and reconstruction would replace cyclone damaged or
destroyed education facilities.
Ridks:        The most serious risk is the continued weakness of administrative
procedures for procurement, contracting of cnnsultant and civil works
within Government especially with the inckL..on of the cyclone relief
component, which could potentially strain its implementation capacity.
A second key risk is the Government's difficult fiscal situation. This
could lead to shortages of counterpart funds during implementation and
later weaken project sustainability. Another risk is the possibility that
the supply of volunteer teachers and project related technical assistance
by other donors, although committed, might not be forthcoming in a
timely manner.
The above issues and risks were discussed during appraisal and
negotatons. The recent successful implementation of the Secondary
Education Project of US$16.0 million equivalent (IDA and AIDAB),
under already difficult economic circumstances, demonstrates that the
project will be within Government's capacity. Consultation between
central and provincial agencies has occurred and operational
procedures are being drafted to facilitate implementation. The project
will also benefit from the presence of a good number of returning
graduates. Learning from the experiences of the Secondary Project,
the presence of some short-term technical assistance has been
introduced  during  project processing.   Implementation  and
sustainability prospects of the project will also be assisted by program
rationalization and implementation of a financial plan which would
assist all concerned to keep track of funding availability and needs.
All project components are self-contained and can be implemenrated
in spite of delays in related donor assistance.



Estimated Costs: Lg                 Local        Foreig        Total
US$ Million
Secondary education expansion         3.0            3.8         6.8
Teacher upgrading                     0.1           0.2          0.3
Curriculum and materials               0.7           1.8         2.5
Nurses training                        1.1           1.3         2.4
Staff development                     0.1           0.3          0.4
Project management and studies        0.2            1.1          1.3
Cyclone relief                         0.9           1.1         2.0
Baseline Costs                     6.1           9.6        15.7
Contingencies:
Physical                             0.4           0.7         1.1
Price increase                       1.4          0.6          2.0
Subtotal                           1.8           1.3         3.1
Total Project Cost ll             L2           1A.2        i, 
nanial Plan:                        Loca         Foreip        Totad
US$ Million
Govemment                              1.1           -           1.1
Japan Grant                            0.5           0.3          0.8
IDA                                    6.3          10.6        16.9
Total                              L2           iL           iL
EsAimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                    1994   199S    1996   1997   1998   1999
US$ Million
Annual                     1.6    3.4    4.7    3.3    2.2    1.7
Cumulative                 1.6    5.0    9.7   13.0   15.2   16.9
Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Map:      IBRD NO. 24488
La As nearly all goods and construction materials would be directly imported for the
project, taxes and duties would be negligible.



Iv -
SOLOMON ISLANDS
THID EDUCATION AND TRAING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
(1992)
General
Land Area                           28,500 knm
Population                          320,000 (1986)
Populadon Density                   10 persons per knm
Population growth rate              3.4%
Adult litracy                       30%
GNP per capita                      US$560 equivalent
Economically active                 22,659 (1986)
% female                          17%
Enrollment      Female
Education Data              Enrollment       Ratio %          % of total
Primary (grades 1-6)            65,838        90%  (gross)    45%
Junior Secondary (grades 7-9)    5,464      1
Senior Secondary (ades 10-12)    1,263      1 17%            36%
Post-Secondary                   1,270         4%            23%
Teadher/Pupil
Teahing Staff    No. Teachers   % Untrained  % Expatriate    Ratio
Primary (grades 16    2,400         27%             -           1:28
Secondary (rade 7-12)   400            -          25%           1:17
Other Dda
Nure  Population Ratio            1.4 per 1,000 persons
Education Expenditure (1991 actual)
Total Capital and Recurrent              SBD
Total Expend;ture                      47.8 million
of which capital expenditures            9.0 million
of which recrent expendiures            38.8 million
Recurrent as % of total Gov't           15.1%
Total as % of Total Gov't               17.9%
Share of Recumnt Education Expenditure     By Level    Unit Costs in SBD
Primary                                   34%              450
Secondary                                 25%             1,200
Post-secondary                            21%             7,500



.V..
CONTENTS
Page No.
1   EDUCATION SECTOR  ...........................   1
A.  Background  .................................              1
B. Econonic Setting        .............................  1
C. The Education System  ..........................  2
1rimnary Education   ............................  2
Secondary Education ..........................  3
Curricuum Development and Supply of Educational Maters    4
Tertiary Education                 .                      S
FemaleParticipation mEducation .     .................    6
Nurses Taining       .............................  6
D. Financing of Education ..........................  8
Variable Levels of Cemral Governmt Subsidies ........    8
igh UnkiCon ofSecondaryEducatlon  ..............  9
Low Level of Cost Recovery in Secondary and
Post-SecondaryEducation .      ....................  9
LackofEffective Finncial Management at Sdwol Level ....  9
E. Enviro       nmeot aCondiderrao s . ...................  9
P. Participation of Non-Govrnmental Organaons and
Odter Training .............................. 10
G. Govenment Goals and Strategy in Education and
Training .......                                         10
H. Lessons Learned From Previous IDA Involvement in the
Sector ........ 11
I. IDA and Donor Co      n  with SIG .    ................ 12
J. Rationale For DA involvement .......... .......... 13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visked the Solomon
Islands in October/November 1992 comprising Mr. Albet Ame (Sr. Education Planner
- Task Manager), Ms. Sachi Takeda (Economist), Dr. Midcael Porter (Sr. Medical
Specalist), Messrs. Bernard Mastrs (Educator, Consla), Ralph Rawlinson
(Education Specialist, Conuat), Ian Morris (Economist, Consultant).  Peer
Reviwr for this project were: Ma. Cwcia Vakvieso (Sr. Education Economist,
LAIPH) and Mr. Jamil Rog (Sr. Educatr, AFSPH).  Mrs. Maiane Haug,
Director, EA3DR, and Ms. Himelda Martinz, Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the
project



Page No.
2        I1ROJE     DESC ION.........................  14
A. Origin ofte    ject ..           .........................  14
B. Project Objectives        .............................  14
C. Poje  Setting and Descripton           .....................  15
Secondary Educadon           .......................... 15
Seconday Teacher Upgrang  ....................  17
CurriculumDevelopment  ........             ...............  19
aterlals Produ ction, Pnig and Distinbuton .........dDst     on.  19
Nure' Traiing          ............................. 20
StafflDevelopment  ............................ 22
D. Enmgency Cyclone Relief .            .......................  24
E. Financing Plan for the Education Sector  .         ..............   25
Central Governmet Francing  .................... 26
Provinca Govermente  Facing              .................. 26
Parental Contributons (Cost Recovery) .         ..............   26
Mechani  for a Flow of Funds and Delivery of
Goods/Services ............................. 27
3  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . 31
A. Project Costs ................................. 31
Basis of Cost Estmates .........            ................  31
ContingencyAllowances ........................ 31
B. Fiancing  ..................................   33
Recurent Expenditures .........             ................  34
C. Project Management and Inplementation .....              .......... 34
Perfonanmce, Monitoring and Reporting  .....            .........  36
Procuremnie    ..        .............................  37
Speci  Acoount .         ............................  39
Disbursements  ..............             ................  39
Accounts and Audits  ..........             ................  40
4 PROJECrRISKS ANDBENFTS.                                                      41
Project Reated Issues and Rsks .41
Benefits .41
5  AGREEMENS REACHED AND RECOMMUENDATION .... 42
Gener Agreemens. .42
Recommendan .42



- vi} -
Pae No.
List of Tables In Main Text
Table 3.1  Summy of Project Costs by Component ..... ......... 32
Table 3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expnditure  ..... 33
Table 3.3  Funacing Plan        .............................. 34
Table 3.4  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category ...... ..... 37
ANNEXES
Annem     Strucue of the Education System 1992  .............  .. 44
Annex 2  Ministry of Education and Human Resources Developmene
Organization Chart ........................... 45
Anex 3  Key Issues in Education and Traning ................. 46
Aiex 4  Integrted Donor Support ........................ 48
Annex 5  Secondary Education Policy ....................... 52
Annex 6  Secondary Education Expansion Component ....     ......... 54
Annex 7 Teacher Education Needs: Subjects x Strategies -
Prioritiesl993-1998  .......................... 55
Annex 8  SelectedProjectIndicators ........................ 56
Annex 9  Structure of Mixed Mode Curriculum ................. 59
Annex 10 Primary Education Materials - Production Schedule/Budget (USS) Ei
Annex 11 Supply and Distribution of Educaional Materials .......... 62
Annex 12 Primary Teachers In-Service Education and Training Schedule  . 66
Annex 13 Nurse Advisory Committee ......     ............ .        67
Annex 14 SICHE Off-Cainpus - Nurse acilities ................ .    68
Annex 15 Staff Development and Training  .................... 69
Annex 16 Summay of Overseas Fellowships, Technical Assistance, and
Project M%angement .......     ................... 70
Annex 17 Fmancing Plan for Education - Formulas for D ng
Unit Recurrent Costs ......     ....................   71
Annex 18 Financing Plan - Roles and ResponGibilities of Relevant
Agencies/Officials                ..                    76
Annex 19 Financing Plan - Medium-Term Financial Plan .... ....... 79
Annex 20 Project Cost- Sumnaries ......      .................. 81
Annex 21 Project Expenditures by Year and Purpose ...... ........ 82
Annex 22 Inplememtation Schedule and Supervision Plan .......... . 83
Annex 23 Esimated Schedule of Disbursements .......     .......... 86
Annex 24 Selected Documentation in the Project File .... .......... 87
MAP      IBRD No. 24488



1
THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. BACKGROUN
1.1        Improving access, quality and relevance of educadon and training
programs have been priority concerns for Solomon Islands Government (SIG) o,;.-r the
past decade. While much improvement has already been achieved, Solomon islands
continues to face the challenge of coping with increasing demand for education in an
enviromnent of fiscal restraint, where public resources are increasingly linited.
B. ECONOMIC SETmNG
1.2         Solomon Islands has a populaion of about 338 thousand and a per capita
GNP of US$560. Removing macroeconomic and structural imbalances has been and
will continue to be the priority concern for the governent in the short term, so that
the economy can fully exploit its potential for rapid growth and more broad-based
development. In the medium-term, increased prvate sector activity can contribute to
effective employment creation and economic growth. Careful attention, however, will
be needed to ensure that the economic growth process is sustainable, and in this respec,
the Solomon Islands" dwindling foest resources are a major concer   Regional
Economic Reports reviewing the Pacific Island Economies focusing on specific country
economies were prepared by IDA in December 1992 and are being reviewed by the
respective countries. The reports deal with specific country economic maters.
1.3         As economic growth regains positive momentum, government spending
needs to shift in emphasis from central government adminon, public enterprise
subsidies and local government grants to investment and operational expdltures for
education, health care, sanitation and economic infrastuctre. Besides contibung to
an ivement in *'. :andard of living, increased spending in these areas will provide
the population with the skills and resources needed to diversify income sources and
deepen commercial activity. With population Increasing at about 3.4 percent per annum
and only a fifth of the labor force employed In the formal secr, rapid economic
growth is essential for improvement in incomes and living standards.
1.4         Labr Mrket Conditios.  Despite the slow growth of wage
employment, with only about 1,100 new formal sector jobs provided  =auy, the labor
market has been characterized by a shortage of skilled and professional labor, resulting
in a continued reliance on expaiates.  In 1991, a total of 698 expatriates were
employed with heavy concentration in enghieering, medicine, law, accountancy,
business management and finance. In addition, key technical professions such as nurses



- 2 -
are in short supply. More broadly, only 22 percent of the economically actrve
population have seondary education qualifications In coast to the Pacific counte'
average of 62 ercen. Even In the public sector, only 40 percet of SIG staff have
completed Form 4 (grade 10). Form 5 (grade 11) is Incrsngly the required
qualification for the public service,/ and now Is the minm_m qualification required
for entrance to regional and Iternational specialized talning programs.2/
C. Tin EDUCATION SYST
1.5         The education system in the Solomon slands consits of:  (a) one
preparatory year followed by six years of priay education, over 90 percent of which
takes place in Goverment primary schools; (b) two streams of secondary education
with 15 Provincial Secondary Schools (PSSs) providing three years of scondary
schooling with a vocatonal orientation and 8 Natiozal Secondary Schools (NSSs)
providing five to six yars of academic secondary education;Y/ md (c) the Solomon
Islands College of Hig lx Education (SICHE). The education system is maged by
the Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development (MEHRD) at the central
level and by provincial Minsties of Education in each province. Annex I gives the
strucmre of the education system and Annex 2 the organization of ME D.
Primany Education
1.6         Access to prmary education has been growing at about 4 percent per
anum  for the last six year, reaching a gross enrollment ratio of about 90 percent. In
1992, about 65,838 students were emolled at tie primary level (45 percent girls).
Since this ratio includes over-age students as well as repeaters, the acual proportion of
age cohorts atending primary schools is estimated to be much lower (about 75-
80 percent). Further expansion to achieve universal primary education, therefore,
contnues to be a medium-term goal for Solomon Islands. However, there are several
obstacles in the short-to-medium term: Fi, the rapid expanion in fte past has
already led to serious quty problems. About 27 percent of the 2,400 primary
teachers are untained. There are serious shortages of educational mteris, and only
about 70 - 75 percent of the entering grade 1 cohort are complting grade 6. Second,
the rapid population increA  would require a com nsurae level of expansion just to
maintin the current enrollment rato.  2hird, parenta contrbudons may not be
sufficient for enrolling all children of school age, especially those from low income
famiies. Fouuih, the children not enrolled are likely to be located in remote areas
1I According to tho EEC Bidzs port an inadequae number of Form S gaduawt is claimed to be
Onm of the contibung factos for 40 percent job vacncy rte in SIG in 1991.
X/ Although SICHE has Form 3 entry in some vocational prOm
I,/ Of the 2,800 studentb in NSSs about 68 percent are arold in pvae insitutions (church) and
32 percet i nMHD imntitutiuns. In all seondary institutions, 28 percet of enrolmhnet attend
private PSSs and NSSs.



- 3 -
where access to primary schools is limtd. The policy priority in the short-to-medium
term therefore needs to be placed on qualitative improvement raer than further
expansion. To date, Solomon Islands, with over 50 local languages and dialects, has
been unable to arrive at a consensus regarding the language of instruction. Experiments
In tecing pidgin nave been initied, but due to the large number of local dialects,
combined with a lack of pidgin m rials, English remains the language of instuction
at both the primary and secondary levels. Ihe present efforts to assess options and to
formulate a national language policy should be continued.
Secon0ary Educaton
1.7         Less than 25 percent of primary graduates have access to junior
secondary schooling even with the 22 percent increase in secondary student places
provided by the recently completed IDA project (Credit 1686-SOL). Gross enrollment
ratios are very low at 20 percent and 5 percent for junior secondary (JSS) and senior
secondary schools (SSS) respectively, due to a lack of student places. In 1992 only
5,464 students were enrolled in Forms 1-3 and 1,263 in Forms 4-6. Just over
30 percent of JSS graduates continue their education at grades 10 and 11, and only
about 140 students have access to Forn 6 (grade 12). Only four schools in the country
offer a full secondary program to Form 6. Secondary education is divided into two
iequtable and ineffective structures with different streams: the National Secondary
Schools (NSS) which provide acaciemic training for five or six years (grade 7 to 12) and
the Provincial Secondary Schools (PSS) which provide traminig for three ye. rs (grades
7 to 9) with a rural vocational orientation. Overall, the Solomon Islands has one of the
lowest coverage and completion rates at the secondary level in t:e world. The problem
is fiurther increased by an uneven distribution of school places among the provinces.
Most students attend secondary schools which are outside their own province, creating
a high transport cost (subsidized by SIG). Equity of access leaves a lot to be desired
since half of the provinces do not have full secondary schools (grades 7-11) while
female participation averages only 36 percent. An expansion of secondary education
is a crtical step for reducing skill shortages and upgrading the quality of public
administration in the long term.
1.8         Tle general standard of secondary education is low compared to most
other nations. The performance of PSSs in meeting labor market needs as well as
social demand, which tends to favor academic training over vocational traning, has
been less than satisfactory. The NSSs are further sub-divided into government and
church NSSs, with the preponderance of enrollments in the latter. Students attending
PSSs sit, at Form 3, a promotion examination largely skewed for NSS. As a result
more than 90 percent of these students do not have access to senior secondary
education. The unification of curricula in all secondary schools, and an equitable
resource allocation mechanism are urgently needed.
1.9         Nearly all of the 400 secondary teachers have received some training.
A study of demand/supply for secondary te-sEhers has revealed that quantitatively, a
rationalized supply of exising and planed SICHE output of secondary teachers would
be suffcient both to replace foreign  hers who consute 25 percent of all tachers,



-4-
and also to acco   e the project's moderate expansion. The most Important need
Is quality improvement, esecially for senior seconday teachers through providon of
an advanced Diploma to reduce the over 90 percent expaie  teaer force in
mathematIcs and the scienoe subjects. Solomon slands, as a result of the previous joint
IDAIA1DAB secondary tachr traig   support, is well placed to meet the need for the
exing and proposed exnion of secondary education. Some retenton of expatriates
(most of the teachers In senior secondary) while existng teachers are being upgraded
in subject content wiU be required.
1.10        Because teaers' placements are controlled at the provincial levels there
are surphluses of certain subject teachers in some schools, particularly at NSSs, and
serious shortages in others. More equitable distribution of teachers based on subject
specialiations, combined with a policy to rationalize teacher contact. hours (work load)
are urgently needed.
1.11        PhysiaWl Faclites. lhe condition of school buildings is generally poor
and matnance is inadequae. The schools are illequipped, and have minimal
fuire, textbooks and instructional materials. The quality of science facilities,
especially in the PSSs, is of particula concern.
Curriculm Devdopment and Supply of Educational Materials
1.12        The curriculum for primary education, updated during the early 1980's
(IDA's Primay Education Project - Credit 1212-SOL) has not been reviewed since and
needs to be updated. External jooks selected during Jbat last review, particularly for
mathematics and langg series lack local content and have become too costly for
national supply even at a two to one ratio (2 students per book). Many regionally
developed materials have become available and it is time for MED to select or adapt
more economical textbook options to facilitate sustainability.
1.13        The British ODA Group (Pacific Regional Advisors) have been examining
these needs and will support this effort, particularly in the language area. Oher
subjects, such as Community Studies/Social Studies, Healt and Physical Education
have recently been or are being updated (eath with WHO assistance) and for these
subjects the issue is more the need to prhit exitg materials in order to make them
available to teachers and stxdents.
1.14        A major supply of textbooks was undaken by the Primary Project in
1988/89, but unfortunaely not all shools received the materials. In additon, it is
estmated that over 50 new primary schools have been established since then and lack
materials. To date, the supply of textbooks has depended on project and bilatea
financing and SIG/MEIHRD, lacking resources, has been unable to operate the
rervenisbment policy it has established. Also, even if parens collect funds and try to
purchase textbooks and educational materials, the few that are available withiin the
country are very costly. It is now esdmated that feveran 30 percent of ae students
have all the required textbooks. During provincial/central government discussions it
was agreed that the supply of educational materials had to be Improved. It was also



- 3 -
dermined that the procurement of educational materials (xtboks and consumables),
for which the central governent anually allocates SBD 15.00 (about US$5.10 in
1992) per pimary student, Should be recentralized to faciliate more economical bulk
procurement necessary to ensure availabilit of maedals wihin the country. LackIng
are funds to Mnitia  an activity which could become self-sufficient tbrough a
combination of the present governme  grant remaning constt and parental
contributions, operaed centrally. Operational procedures have now been defined and
combined with the rephnt policy which is being reformulated. Therefore, it is
now a possibility to establish a more susinable supply of educational materials in the
pdmary schools while increasing cost recovery.
1.15        Similarly, MEHRD has reLied on donor support for the supply of
textbooks for secondary schools. But, since that support has been ad hoc and sporadic,
fte secondary schools have been charging fees and with these funds purcasing some
textbooks.  The main issue is the lack of textbooks within the county and the
difficulties of individual schools in undertking extenal purchases. There is a need to
establish a etral unit to stock bulk orders and sell them to secondary schols. The
funds received would be used to resupply the stock. Full cost recovery is plnned to
alow for a permanent stock. Again, none of the bilateral agencies has agreed to
support the purchase of the iniial stock, and MEID  requires assistance to improve
the availability of textbooks in the secondary schools. For both the primary and
secondary schools there is a need to establish a central authority to adminser the
central bulk proauement of textbooks and educational materis.
1.16        Responsibilit for selecting and then supplying books to the schools rests
with the Curriculum Development Center (CDC). The new director requires short-term
consultant assistance (3 person months) for the elaboration of programs (development
and sly strategies). Additional assistace is required to assist the print unit at the
CDC to improve its organization and response to needs. Ihe CDC prnt unit maks
poor use of its staff and is only partally equipped. It also requires asnce to
complete the supply of nesay equipment and to increae its storage facility for more
efficient and cost effective production of smal prints and test matedals (which are not
economical to procure commercially). Assistance is needed for the implemention of
the above CDC and educational material supply to increase availability and ensure
greater sustinability, thereby enabling MEHRD to improve the quality of educaton.
Tertiary Educaton
1.17        In an effort to rationalize the use of staff, faciLties and resources,
Solomon Islands has consolidated all its post-secondary programs wthin one inshtion
the Solomon Islnds College of Higher Education (SICHE). SICHE is an aunomous
intitution accountable to the Minster of Education and Human Resources
Development. SICHE is divided into seven Schools which include: School of
Educational and Culural Studies, School of Fmance and Admion, School of
Marine and Fisheries, School of Natural Resources (agriculture/forestry), School of
Nursi  and Health Studies, School of General Stdies and School of Industrial
Development. In 1992, it enrolled 1,270 stude  of which 57 percent were sponsored



-6-
by various Government Ministries. The University of the South Pacific (USP) has a
university extension center In Honiara to support diploma, certificate and degree studies
via distance education. In 1992, 129 full-time students studied on the main Suva USP
campus. Overseas study for post-secondary education and training generally has been
fnanced through donor assistance, with most fellowships offered in New Zealand and
Australia. In 1991, Solomon Islands had 397 students benefiting from post-secondary
bilateral fellowships (20 percent female), 29 from the Australian Equity and Merit
Scholarship Scheme (31 percent female) and 53 from private fellowships (49 percent
female).
Femak Participation in Education
1.18        As in many other countries, female participation decreases at higher
levels of education. About 45 percent of primary students are girls. Female
participation in education has been low at secondary and tertiary levels averaging
36 percent and 23 percent, respectively. At the secondary level, the current system's
almost exclusive reliance on costly boarding schools (only one day school) has
negatively affected female participation. First, most schools have insufficient numbers
of boarding facilities for girls (averaging 30 percent). Second, some parents prefer not
to send their daughters to distant schools without supervision of relatives. In addition,
70 percent of the students do not study in their province, thereby greatly reducing girls'
opportunities (para. 1.7). Female participation in higher education is concenated in
the teacher and nurse training programs (60 percent). Increased female participation
at the senior secondary level is necessary if the female share of post-secondary
fellowships i to be increased in the future. Key issues in the education system are
listed in Annac 3.
Nurses Training
1.19        SICHE is responsible for nurses training while other aspects of in-ountry
health manpower taining remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and
Medical Services (MHMS). The course for nurse training is of three years duration
followed by a one year probationary period mandated by the nurse's council. Most
students undertae their probationary year at the Central Hospital under the aegis of
MHMS. In addition to the one government nurses's training school, there is a small
nurse training program at Aloifi Hospital run by the Seventh Day Adventist Church
which meets the regional needs of this group's health facilities. Some of their graduates
(about 8 in 1992), who follow the SICHE curriculum, enter the Solomon Islands labor
force.
1.20        The approxImaely 475 nurses currently working in Solomon Islands
provide most of the country's health services and are the backbone of the health system.
The mrse establishment in both Government and non-Government health facilties has
been severely constrained over the past 10-15 years and existing vacancy levels have
remained high due to severe nurse output constrains from the two nursing schools. As
a consequece of nurse supply constraints, Solomon Islands has the highest population
to nurse ratio (currently 730:1) in the Pacific. In a country with a dispersed populaon



-7-
and poor communications, the relance placed on nurse clinical and practical sills is
very high. For inace, at the Area Health Cners (AHCs) they provide obstetrical
services inclhding abnormal deliveres, undertake minor surgery, conduct oulpadent
services and generally supervise the smaler facites. Their training is of the utnost
importamce to the health and well being, particulaly of the largely rural popuion.
1.21        The health conditions with which the nurses have to contend are broadly
characteried by a crude birth rate of 42 per 1,000 persons, a crude death rate of 10
per 1000 persons, an infant moraty rate (IMR) of SO per 1,000 live births and a life
expectacy of 59.9years for men and 61.4 years for women (fiures based on the 1986
census). These health indicators have been improving, with the IMR showing the most
dramatic Improvent (alved between 1970 and 1986). The morbidity and mortality
patern is dominated by communicable and vector borne dieas  with malari,
respiratory tract diseases, diarrhoea, tuberculosis, hepatitis B, and yaws at the forefront.
Sexally transmitted diseases (STD) are Increasing, but no cases of HIV positive or
AIDS have been found yet. Among non-communicable diseases, there are incres in
tram, accidents and alcohol related problems and also in   n       related
illnses. The health infonnation system is poorly developed, so data tend to be sparse.
1.22        There is a general consensus that the quality of nurse training has
improved since its trasfer from MHMS to SICHE in 1985. MHMS is responsible for
provision of some services such as those at the main 280 bed Central Hospital which
is cuntly undergoing expansion to about 380 beds with asitance from the Republic
of China. Its completion in 1996 will generate a comensurate demand for addional
nursing staff. Responsibility for the bulk of health service delivery rests with the
provincial authorites who manage the provincial hospitals and health clinics. In
Honiara, the municipal authorities manage the health clinics. The churches conbte
to service provision and own two of the provincial hospitals and a mber of rural
health clinics.
1.23        About 85 percent of the nurses are employed by the govenme  healt
services, with the rmander employed by either the churches or the private sector.
Their distibution by both function and location is very uneven. About 60 percent of
all goverment-employed mnuses work in hospitals and only about 30 percent work at
AHCs and Rural Health Clinics (RHC). The greaest nber of nurses is found in
Honara lagely due to the number working at the Cental Hospital. Outside Honiara
th nurse-to-population ratios vary from 1.5 per thousand people in Temotu to 0.4 per
thousnd people in Guadalcanal. In the country as a whole, the nurse-to-population
ratio is 1.38 nurses per 1,000 persons. According to the EEC study and the Hind Post-
Secondary Academic Plan, the unsatisfied demand for nres is high. Demand for
mnuses is expected to remain high given the continued reliance which will be placed on
their skill to provide qualty health services in hospitals and pepheral facilities, the
high populaion growth rate (about 3.4 percent per annum) and the age structure of the
work force. Tbe mandatory rement age of 50 years in the public service means that
about 40 percent of nurses will retre in the next decade. Wit about 28-31 nurses
expected to resign each year over the next decade (due to early resignation from service
and cowpulsory reirement) it is estimated tht unless about 50 stdents enter SICHE



-8-
annmualy (output 42-45 p.a. firom 1996) the likely demand for the filling of the nurses
existg vacmcies will not be met. The needed increased nurse out  would inially
provide for the replacement of redred nmrses and then allow for a modest Improvement
of the population to mnrse ratio in the early 2000s.
D. FiNANaNG OF EDUCATION
1.24        In 1991 the Solomon Islands total capital and recurrent expendirs for
the education secr were SBD 47.5 millon. Of that amount SBD 13.6 mnllion was
devoted to capital and SBD 34.2 million to recurren  expenditures.  Rerrent
expenditures for education, as a percent of total Goverment expendires is
15.1 percent and as a total of total Governmnent expenditures, 19.9 percent. rIt fiscal
conditions are exerting additional pressures on educational fnancing, as is evident in
the fact that government recmrent educational expendures, excluding tertiary education
fell as a percentage of total government spending from 23 percent in 1987 to about
15 percent in 1991. However, it is ec   that the need for further expansion and
qualty improvement will require an increased level of governmnt resources for
education. Rationalizon of educational financng has clarly become an urgent issue,
not only from the viewpoint of ensuring efficiency and equity, but also in order to
protect the education sector from bearing more than its legidmate share of the costs of
adjustment. At the same time, it will be increasingly important to define the role of
public fmancing. Willinness of the pans to pay for education is demonstrated by
the fact that past expansion of primary education has relied upon financial contributions
from parents and local communities for construction and furnishing of schools and for
educaon materials.
Variable Leves of Central Government Subsidies
1.25        The cetral Government provides salaries for all the teachers in primary
and secondary education (public and private), and provides grants for schools either
directly, as in the case of NSSs, or through the provincial governments in the case of
PSSs. Since provinces are responsible for the allocation of teachers, this allocation has
not been equitable. The level of central grants available for operating costs has varied
from province to province and from school to school, mainly becuse of: (a) a lack of
a simple formula to detmine the subsidies; (b) differentil treatment of government
and church NSSs and PSSs; and (c) a lack of mednisms to ensure that all the
subsidies channelled throgh provincial governments are acuafy delvered to schools.
In the 1992 budget, two public NSSs have received the highest support at SBD 770 per
stude, excluding teacher costs, or nearly SBD 1,800, including teacher costs.4/
4I  Ths public NSss colect fes that are sent back to do Trasur. 1  unit rewnut co to the
Govenment has been caculat net of fe rf ve to he Govenment



-9 -
This s to be compared against the PSSs which on average received SBD 375 per
stuent, excluding teacher costs, or SB1D 1,121 including teacer costs.5/
High Unit Costs of Secondary Education
1.26        The resuling average unit cost to the central Government for secondary
education in 1992 is high at around SBD 400 per pupil, excluding teacher costs, or
SBI 1,200 per pupil, including teache costs. While such high unit costs are common
among all Pacific Countries where boarding schools are the norm, SIG needs to
consider ways to bring about efficiency gains.  hee factors contribute to high unit
costs are: (a) a low student-teacher ratio of about 17; (b) high costs associated with
boarding at about four times the cost of a day student; and (c) the practice of building
schools in isolated areas which raises maintenance and transportation costs.
Low Levels of Cost Recovery in Secondary and Post-Secondary Education
1.27        While many secondary schoolshave been raising fees in recent years, the
overall level of parental contribution continues to be low at about 35 percent of non-
teacher recrrent costs for PSSs or 25 percent for NSSs. In addition, there appeWars to
be considerable scope for eancing cost recovery in SICHE. The Government needs
to continue to place greater emphasis on cost recovery, in the medium to long term,
especially for boarding schools and the NSSs. Pee increases need to be designed and
aministered to fall largely on non-poor households.
Lac of Effective Fmal M geent at School Level
1.28        Most PSSs obtain in-kind transfers from  central or provincial
govemments, and have little control over their resources. This can cause serious
problems for record-keeping or keeping track of the remaining budgets by schools if
prices of procured items are not known to them. It is critically important to enhance
gradually schools ability to manage their financial resources so that they can engage in
better planning and effective resource allocation.fif
E. ENVIROMErrAL CONsmuxoNS
1.29        Solomon Islands commercial exploitation and a lack of knowledge of
measures requured to preserve the environment may have put the country's forstry and
fishing resources at ri. IThere is a need to inclde, as part of the school curriculum
s/ Again PSSs collect fees hat ae sn bak to Provincil Trsurie. The unit recr   cot to
the Govnmet culated her does not inclue the budgt top-ups added by dto prwvin
governments, since    lat  are largdy derived fim fee reveu.
{I The exceptions are NSSs, e Honiar Seconday School and a few PSSs, nce they aready
havef (a) abiliy to estmte nured cos for mt /smvice  and (b) monthy reporting
from the line  ury   the do _maning bale of tho budget allocated to  m



- 10-
(In Community Studies at the primary level and science related subjects at the
secondary), information which woul increase environmental awareness of the studen
and their parents. MEHRD pln to include such topics as part of the curriculum.
F. PARTCATION OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
AND OTHER TRAiNNG
1.30        All primary schools except one are government managed while in
seconday education six NSSs are managed by church groups. These NSSs receive
some grant funding/support (about 1/3 of government run NSSs) for their operation and
teacher salaries. Church schools follow the govenment curriculum and observe the
same holidays and in fact are very similar in operation to the Govermnent schools.
Other than short adult training programs run at some of the church schools, SIG
manages all the education and training activities in the country and could benefit from
allowing more private initiatives within established criteria. Public Service Training
was undl 1989 operated by the Public Service Commission but hese taiing programs
have since been integrated into the School of Fmance and Administration at SICHE.
Counes are adverdsed by the School and a combination of primarily Ministry
ponsored students and a few private students attend these courses.
G. Gov oERM T GOALS AND STtATEGY IN EDuCATON AND TRAINIG
1.31        SIG has identified the following as priority areas: (a) reducing the
secondar access bottlnec particuarly at Forms 4 and 5, and expanding the low
participation of females at the secondary level; (b) improving educational qual  at all
lvels through curricula development, distribution of educational materials, and
ugrading of teachers; (c) improving and expanding the SICHE training programs for
nurses and midwives. These sectoral priorities have been developed through studies
and dissions conducted with assistance from odter donors and the World Banlc SIG
is aware that the above are ambitious goals given their limited resources. They
eefore ntend to capitalize on the coordinated use of resources from the World Bank
and bilater donors, who have agreed to an extensive coordination and complemey
sport stratea following two donor conferences.
1.32        The Goverament is committed to regional equity in seeking to provide
fidl sndary education (Forms 1-5) in at last one institution in each province.
MEID is also committed to a unified secondary education system of six years
duraton. MEHRD recognizes that it is not possible to implement a full secondary
system in all 23 secondary schools, but stresses the importance of expanding Forms 4
aud 5 In up to eight schools as Phase 1 of this process. Therefore, only a few schools
wil offer the full six years, others will provide five years and some will offer only
hree years. The Certificate of Secondary Education will continue to be awarded at the
end of Form 5. A common curriculum encompassing both Nacademicl and 'appliedu
subjects wil be introduced for Form  1-5.



-11-
1.33        Recognzing the very high recurent cost of boarding places, MERD
emphasizes the inroduction of day stdents in secondary schools. As a pilot prof,,ect,
MEHRD is also seeking to introduce Forms 1 to 3 for day stdent at solected primary
schools. This will not only reduce overal unit cost, but is expected to increase the
participation rate of females. However, due to the isolated locations of most existng
seCndary schools, boarding schools will contie to play an important role In
secondary education.
1.34        Ihe Governmentplans to ratnalze educational fhnncing, by Introducing
a unit-cst based formula for the de         of central subsidies, centaied
assignment of tachers, and mechanisms to ense efficient channelling and allocation
of resources at the school level.
1.35        During 1990, the Government issued inial policy, strategy and planning
statement for education. These policies have been thoroughly discussed at the central
and provincial level, with inputs from churcs and non-governmental orIo.
Multilate  and bilateral donor agencies have been apprsed of these itative.
Improvements in planning ad delivery of services will systmatically remedy the major
poblems of equity, access, quality, quantty, efficienc and coordination. Criea and
procedures are evolving to improve coorditon beween the cetral and provinca
offices of education.
1.36        In additon, several national confeences vere organizd wih
entives from the provincial governments and the MEHRD to discs how
naiol and provincial education services and operations could be improved. These
effort remilted in the drafting of an education policy handbook which wil be reviewed
during subsequent national conferences. During project preparation a financing plan
was prepared to assess te actual costs of operatng the system and how these resources
could be obtained. The implementation of the financing plan recomndations will also
be an objective of the project.
1.37        There has been an increase of trained personnel whin M   [mainly
as a result of the two IDA-financed projects (Cr. 1212-SOL and 1686-SOL) and
increased fellowships from the three main baeral donors], enabling improved
implementation performance and facilitating crucial policy dialogue.
H  LESSONS IEARNED   OM PREOUS IDA INVOLVENENT IN &TM SuC
1.38        IDA has had two operatins In the education sector. The first project
was the Prinary Education Project (Credit 1212-SOL) for SDR 5.0 m5ilon wihich
became effective on July 1, 1982 and closed on December 31, 1989. The project
included pport for primary scool expansion, supply of educational materias, and
tacher taning. This project received about US$5.0 million of AIDAB para
financing. The second project, the Secondary Education Project (Credit 1686-SOL) fo
SDR 8.0 million became effective on February 27, 1987 and closed on schedue on
December 31, 1992. The project  ported the constcto and equipping of thrae



- 12-
PSSs and junior secondary teacher training. This project also benefitted from about
US$8.0 million of AIDAB parallel fnacing.
1.39        The objectives of the Prmary Education Project were generally met
except for the ince   of primary tachr  outu and supply of educational materials
primriy due to the large unforeseen enrollment increases. However, there wre some
management problems owing to the lack of experience with IDA operations within the
sector, resulting in a two year extension of the Project Closing Date. The main lessons
identifed by the first project's completion report (PCR) were that: (a) expansion of
school places needs to be better matched by careful planning of teacher supply in
respect to Form 5 candidates a4d required teacher training outputs; tb) recurrent cost
reqiments including replenisiment and maintenance policies need to be sysmatically
reviewed with the Ministry of Pinance and Economic Plnning (MOFEP); and
(c) clearer communication channels between MOFEP, provincial authorities and
MEHRD need to be established at the planning and implementation stages with
increased involvement of the provinces, to increase sutainailit. As for the Secondary
Education Project which closed on schedule Decmber 31, 1992, and was fuly
disbursed, it appears that  (i a combination of returning graduates (products of the
previous project) and the timely employment of identfied tedhnical assistance (TA) have
increased MEHRD's implenaton capacity; (ii) in spite of increased implementati
capacity, inter-Ministry management and fiacial processes still rewire attenton; and
(Mi) increased Bank efforts to have continuit and availability of sector edalists during
supervision played a key role in enhancing implmentation  In additon, having an
annual visit overlap with other bilateral donors has greaty enhaced project
coordination, financing and facilitated joint policy dialogue. However, a new lesson
that a national integrated strategy was needed for the education sector emerged towards
the end of the second project. The proposed project Inorporates features to address
most of these lessons drawn from past experience.
L IDA AND DONOR COOIRAXioN WfIm SIG
1.40        In order to clarify poliy priorities withi the sector, IDA and other
donors jointly provided assistance to the M MD to conduct the following sbudies:
(a) a national education sector survey; (b) a school mapping exercise; (c) developing
SICHE academic and physical master plans; (d) an analysis of pre- and in-service
teacher training programs; (e) a review of the status of curriculum development: (M) a
review of inspectorate and education assessment activities; and (g) a trining needs
survey for the MEHRD staff.
1.41        Two Donor Round Tables were organized to bring together
representaties from the MEHRD, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planing
(MOFP), the Ministry of Provincial Affairs (MPA), SICHE, Austrlin LIteaona
Development Assistance Bureau (A1DAB), New Zealand (NO, Overseas Development
Office - UK (ODAIUK), and the Bank, to discuss SIG's sector strategy and MEHRD
project proposals. SIG/MHRD determined tha a future project would address the
following key issues:  access, quality, financing and sustanabit.  k was



- 13 -
ackowledged by all parties that donor inputs all needed to be part of an integrated
sectoral strategy to ensure complementa  and consstency. As specified by bilateral
donors and SIG, donor grant asistance is Isted as complmntery rather than parallel.
1.42        A complementar project In secondary education funded by A1DAB will
support (a) adaptation of the science curricum at all levels In the Solomon lands;
(b) supply of science equipmet for all JSSs; (c) supply of science equipment for Forms
4 and 5 in the 8 exisig secondary schools being upgraded by this IDA-funded project;
and (d) support for the refurbishing of existing classroom to accommodate science
teaching (schools not covered by the IDA-funded project). Ihe AIDAB input is
estmated to be A$3.4 million (US$2.3 million equivalent). A Solomon Islands and
stralian bilateral agrement has been signed finaliing the funding for this support
It is also anticipated that there would be support from United Kingdom (ODA/UK ) for
the revision of the primy curricdulum and associated maberials and primay teacher
in-service (US$2.0 millon). I addition, New Zealand is expected to s ort a primary
teachers pre-service program introducing an alterative and more economical one-year
traning program at SICHE (US$0.6 million). Detailed donor contributions supporting
an itgrated investment program are mtined in An  4.
J. RIATONALE FR IlDA INVOLVEMENT
1.43        IDA assistance in the education sector has evolved from support for
primary school expansion to a complex project, based on a number of policy changes.
Lessons learned from earlier projects have been important in the evolution of IDA
stragy. A close dialogue on educatonal issues has been mntaned for over a decade
with aU of the key Government Miniies; this has placed IDA in a staegic posidon
to help SIG rationalize its staffing, financing and program quality. IDA has played a
catalytic role in assitg SIG/MEHRD to identify iestment priorities for the
tionalization and development of the education sector. The bilateral donors will hr)p
SIG maily through technical assistance and limited equipment supply but their
resources will faU short of the needed investment level in the sector, especialy for the
secondary expansion. As a result, SIG/IMERD officials will continue to look to IDA
for financial support, and for policy advice. Ihe rationalizaon efforts proposed within
the project will enable the SIG to expand greatly its education coverage while improving
quality, mcreasing cost recovery and lidming cost increases.



- 14-
2
PROJECT DESCRIPON
A. ORGIN OF TU  PROETo
2.1         Possible IDA assistance for quality improvement- and allevation of the
secondary bottleneck caue by a lack of student places has been under dissions
since 1989 when a series of Bank-funded studies were undertaken. During and
following a July 1991 Donor Round Table, the Bank received a formal request for
assistane in the sector. A November 1991 mission, joined by rpreseives from
AIDAB, NZ and United Kigdom (ODA/UK), with Government staff, identified the
potential sectoral isses. Subsequenty, coordinated studies were conducted focusing
on curricul, supply of educational materials, teacher tangt , science education,
nspectorate and assessment and trni  needs. In May 1992, the second Donor Round
Table and a project preparation mission reviewed the prioridtes and the potental project
spport by the Bank and other donors.
B. PROJECT OBJECiVES
Objectives and Scope
2.2         The project would:
(a) expand access to secondary schools, particularly at the senior level,
while focusing on increased female paricipation;
(b) initiate lower unit-cost day schools in secondary education by
establishing in five villages, pilot schools and increase parental
participation;
(c)   improve the quality of primary ad secondary education through teacher
upgrading and in-service trainig, curriculum inputs and increased
availbility of educational materials;
(d) improve, through training, the efficiency and management of the
educational system;
(e)   expand the supply of nurses and midwives;



- 15-
(t)   strengthen budgetng and fnancial planning to promote the rationalizaon
of the education sector; and
(g)   undertake emergency rehabilaion or reconstucdon of educatin
facilities damaged or destroyed by Cyclone Nin in January 1993.
2.3         To achieve the above obJectives the proJect would support compon
for: (a) secondary education; (b) quality improvements; (c) staff developmet md
training including the training of nurses; (d) rationaization of the education sector
expenditres; and (e) emergency rehabilitation or reconstucion of education facilities.
C. PROJECT SKrING AND DhSRnPON
Secondary Education
2.4         This component emerges from extensive discussions with MEHRD on te
ationalization and unification of the system and policy dialogue as outined in An
5. Key policy elements addressed by the project: (a) adopting a common curriculum
for all secondary schools givhig all schools equal teacher contact (work) hours and
providing science education in all secondary schools; (b) creating more equitable
opportnities for fuil secondary education across provinces; (c) expandi  access for
girls, particularly in senior forms through an increase in boag  facilities;
(d) introducing lower cost and more responsive junior secondary day shools;
(e) establishing a policy that allows all secondary schools to enrol day students;
() cetralizing the appointment and transfer of teachers, while increasing t er
cont hours, to improve education quality and responsiveness and arrive at greater
cost effectiveness; (g) establishing an actual unit cost basis for direct funding to each
secondary school including accountability measures; and (h) increasing cost recovery
nisms through more equitable collection of fees (particularly from SIG funded
NSSs) and full payment for textbooks.
2.5         As a result of the unification of secondary schools, MED is now
adoptng new terminology to describe the various types of schools. These will be:
(a) Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) for former PSS remaining wih Forms 1 to 3
(grades 7 to 9) and the new day village schools also offering Forms 1 to 3;
(b) Secondary Schools (SS) for schools offering Forms 1 to 5 (grades 7 to 11) or Forms
1 to 6 (grades 7 to 12); and (c) Senior Secondary Schools for the future schools offern
only Forms 4-6 (grades '0 to 12).
2.6         The project component for secondary education woud provide for the
expansion and renovation of eight exisdng secondary schools (rades 7 to 11) and the
construcdon of five new Junior secondary schools (grades 7 to 9) on prinary school
sites. All sites have been visited, found acceptable and are listed in Mw 6. Ihe
project would: (a) expand three new junior secondary schools, built by the Secondary
Education Project, at Ruavatu, Biul'ah and Ada'ua, for the inclusion of (gades 10 and
11) Forms 4 and 5 with expanded boarding faculties for girls; (b) exjand the Aligegeo



- 16-
PSS located near the town of Auld - t aom    pmary lower cost day stdents
and increase female access; (c) rehablitate and minimally expadthree existing PSSs
at Kamaosi, Cholseul Bay and Lesaleba for provncial equty and where large
inwpropriately served populaion catchment areas and a small number of potenial day
students exist; and (d) expand to include Foms 4 and 5 at the day school in Honaa,
the lowest cost secondary school which enrolls about 90 percent of its stdents from al
over the coury.
2.7        In addition, the project would provide for lower cost secondary student
places 21 (Forms 1 to 3) in five pilot village schools selected out of a list of 30
identified schools (based on the school mapping exercise, village requests and
satisfactory selection criteria). These schools are: Malai province - Gwaidinale (one
stream); Honiara Municipal Authority - Honiara; Western Province - Gizo (two
strm); Makira Province - Santa Ama (one strem); and Guadalcanal province -
Nguvia (two streams). As a condition of aedit disbwrsemnw, Jinds wll only be
disbursed for the constructon and equippig of secondary schools when IDA has
received satisfactory evidence for al project schools that aU lad and rights have been
secured (para 5.2).
2.8         To achieve the above secondary school expansion, the project would
supply supplemenary classrooms, educational facilities, workshops, science
laboratories, futre and equipment and, where necessary boarding places and staff
houses. Ihis effort would increase enrollments In Forms 1 to 3 by about 920 students
and in Forms 4 to 5 by about 790 students, an increase of about 40 percent (female
enrollment would expand from 36 percent in 1992 to about 45 percent at the end of the
project). The project schools and stream coverage are also listed in Annx 6. The
project would increase by about 37 percent the number of students completing a full
five years of secondary education.
2.9         ConsuctIon of additional boarding spaces will be kept to a minimum,
with some 75 percent being for girls. Construction of mainly semi-permnent tchers'
houses would be more economicd although in a few locations paent housing would
be more appropriate. Houses would be provided primarily to accommodate the
additional teachers, while in other cases to remedy shortages.
2.10        Civil works for the eight existig secondary schools will: vary from
location to locaion; be based on the education and archtect    worksheets prepared
during appraisal; and will provide exstng schools with (a) new contuction of
speciaized facilities (science laboratories, multi-purpose rooms) and necessary
classrooms, dormitories and teachers' housing; and (b) renovation of salvageable
existng buildings. For each of the five primary village schools to which one or two
junior secondary stream(s) wiU be added, the following additions wiUl be made for a one
stream school: one junior secondary classroom, a classroom/science room, a
71 This cost is esimated to be about oneird th cost at a boarding school md wil fai&litate
paet partcipatioa cobuy to existg secondy shos which have been built in isolated
site.



- 17 -
mulpurpose applied craft room, ablution block and office as neded. For a two stream
school two additional classrooms would be added. Funds would be supplied for local
constuction of semi-permanent style staff houses. For all schools, deiled architecturl
designs and building site placement will be prepared by nationaly based architects
familiar with the climatic conditions. hese plans and descriptions would be based on
the or.nal School Facilties Inventory. The project's initial technical studies and
designs, employing local architects/engineer following local advertisement in
accordance with IDA Guidelines will be funded by a Japanese Grant. On site detiled
analysis will be needed for all renovation work and of water supply and sewerage
disposal and the Department of Public Health (DPH) would be consulted before work
is undertaken. Civil works activities have been grouped regionally to facilitate
implementation and supervision and divided into two phases. The first phase would
include the PSSs at Aligegeo, Honiara, Ruavatu, Ada'ua and Bullah and JSSs at Gizo,
Owaidinale, Nguvia and Honiara. Phase two would include PSSs at Choiseul, Kamoasi
and Luesaleba and JSSs at Santa Anna. Nurses' facilities (para. 2.24) will be part of
Phase I.
2.11        Equipment. In view of AIDAB's comment to equip a science
laboratories in Forms 1-3 in the existing and new junior secondary schools and for
Forms 4-5 in the 8 expanded secondary schools (fumded by this project, para. 1.42),
this project will concentrate on providing funding for: (a) a basic stock of necessary
textbooks for resale to schools and a limited number of reference books; (b) limited
number of hand craft tool, timber and metal supplies, and basic woodwork and
metalwork machinery; (c) outdoor 'bush' kitchen utensils, general cooking equipment,
mamal sewing nmc    , basic supplies; and (d) art easels, art matrials and supplies.
In addition, a small financial aLocation (about US$200) has been made per classroom
and (US$700) for general school adminitration equipment. Tbe list of textbooks,
library and teacher reference books and equipmenlt would be prepared by a subject
speciaist team under the coordination of the Curriculum Development Center (CDC)
and Principal Education Officer (Secondary).
Secondary Teacher Upgrading
2.12        Results of the recent teacher study indicates that as a result of the
Secondary Education Project, there is sufficient flexibility in the system to provide for
the proposed expansion in secondary schools without ncreasmg the annual output of
new secondary teachers. The expansion would be effected through the further
upgrading of national teachers to work in senior forms which, in turn, would lead to
a gradual decrease in the dependence on expatriates in Forms 4 to 5 (25 percent of staff
in 1992). The project would require: (a) that there be a phased increase in the nunber
o- taching periods per week, from the present average of 20, to 28 to 30 per week
based on a 40 period week (para. 1.9); (b) the implementation of a centrlized
appointment and transfer system for secondary teachers with Education Authorities -
provincial governments; and (c) that MEHD and SICHE establish an annual review
of teacher needs to improve the training response. At negotiations SIG gave assurances
that: By October 15, 1993, and thereer by October 15 of each year, the Borrower
shal cany owt an overall annal seconday teadher demnd and supply analysis atmed



. 18-
at ldentl4yng s iabject teacher needs In seconday schools and therefter, take all such
actions, satfactory to the A!ssociation, to adequately address such training needs
/para 5.2 (a)J.
2.13        The phased Ince  in the number of teaching periods per week from the
present 20 (on average) will allow some tachers to upgrade their qualifications. It will
be possible, during the 1993-1998 period, to meet the project initiated growth in the
teaching service (some 60 to 75 teachers), and at the same tme, reduce the number of
expatiate teachers by some 40 to 50 posings, without any significant incre in
undergraduate raining at SICRE. This will be achieved through the upgrading of some
25 to 30 existing teachers to Advanced Diploma level per year, through SICHE,
together with the annual award of some 5 to 10 overseas fellowships for upgrading from
diploma to degree level. This strategy will allow the proposed expansion of the
secondary system to take place with minimal increase in the teacheas salaries budget.
More dtan one-third of the current national secondary eaching service wiU be upgraded
and about 50 percent of the expatriate teachers will be phased out.
2.14        The project would support SICHE's development of an Advanced
Diploma for the above secondary upgrading progran. Based on the analysis of teaher
demand and supply, the priority areas for teacher upgrading include Business Studies,
English, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies (Annex 7). The upgrading program
would draw existng teachers out of the classroom for a period of about 12 months and
upgrade their content knowledge in one or two subjects fiting the major and minor
qualifications they already possess. Science teaching which has yet to be introduced
into the current SICHE Diploma program will be undertkn by AIDAB while the
upgrading of secondary  ahers beyond the diploma level will continue to be
undertaken overseas using available bilateral fellowships.
2.15        To facilitate the senior secondary teacher upgrading actvities, the project
would include the followhg: (a) short-term fellowships for the upgrading of two
SICHE teacher trainers;j/ (b) provision of technical assistance for six months for the
design of the Advanced Diploma;2 (c) construction of staff houses at SICHE; and
(d) inciemental operating costs, on a declining basis, for the in-country upgradig of
existng secondary teachers for Forms 4 and 5.
2.16        Selected secondary education indicators listed in Anne 8 were reviewed
and agreed to during negotiations and will be reviewed annually so dth  MEHRD can
monitor secondary education, as part of the broader project Implementation indicators.
As agreed at negotiaons, by October 15, 1994, and thereater by October 15 f each
year, the Borrower shal wudertake annua reWiew of the agreed education Indicators
/jwa. 5.1(b)].
V/ Thes needed flpwahps huae been costed in the poect but some wil hopefully be covered by
bilaeral donors and freed-p fumds used for te purchase of additional ducation mterialsn
2/ Will be overed in pat by the Japs Grnt (pam. 3.5).



- 19-
Curriculum Development
2.17        The project would lntroduce the recently adopted mixed mode curriculum
with a revised structre unifying the secondary syllabus. The mixed mode curriculum
and allocation of periods is included in Annex 9. The unified syllabus will also increa;se
the promotion opportnities of students attending JSS from the present 10 percent by
enabling them to take the same subjects removing the past inequities in the exaination
system which limited senior secondary opportunities.10/
2.18        Following adoption of the "mixed mode" model for the secondary
syllabes and the proposed initiatives in Science Education (hrough AIDAB), CDC
would have a central role to play in the review of syllabuses and the preparation of
associated mateials. The project will support an experienced primary curriculum
advisor at an "associate expert" level for 36 person-months, at a total cost of about
US$200,000. The project would also fund: (a) short-term technical assistance to
advise on development issues relating to the mixed-mode curriculum; (b) a short-term
fellowship to assist the new CDC director; (c) staff houses; and (d) provision to schools
of a set of basic curriculum resource materials developed.
2.19        Revision of primary syllabuses and the development of stde  and
tacher materils would be undertaken by curriculum officers, supported by subject
panels. ODA/UK has agreed to fund the development of primary language and
community studies and dte purchase and printing costs of sample/testing materials and
later national print runs based on the estimated ratio of one book for every two students
(estmated at US$528,000).
Matriab Production, Printing and Distibution
2.20        The project would fund international, regional and national purchase, of
educational materiS.  It would also support printing and distnbution of the
sample/testing materials for primary mathematics and science/agriculture at a 2/1 ratio.
The project would also fund sample/test runs produced by the CDC press and longer
runs produced by commercial printing presses (local and external) following tendering
in accordance with Association guidelines. A modest production and printing facility
(capable of doing small/medium runs) is required to support the work of CDC. Larger
prnting jobs, such as those required for major primary prints would be umdertaken
commercially. Annex 10 oudines the education materials production schedule and
budget. As indicated above the latter will be a complementary activity supported by
ODAIUK and IDA.
2.21        It should be noted that consultant analysis and project preparation
revealed that a small print unit attached to CDC would be more economical and timely,
for small print jobs and the production of text materials rather than relying on national
IQ/ In spite of h fct that thoy had difrent conta hours in vaious subjects or were not taught
tho same subjects, th PSS studens were subjeced to an NSS type examination limiting their
to cotnu to snior seondawy educatin.



-20 -
private commercial printing contracts. Under fte Project, fte CDC print shop would
be maintained on the present site, with some limited physical expansion. Provision of
an integrated range of equipment (listed in worldng papers) would significantly increase
production and prindng capacity. The project would provide support for: (a) technical
assistance for advice on the use of equipment and the preparation of integrated
production and printing schedules; (b) provision of supplies, to augment normal annual
supplies, over a period of five years; (c) an integrated set of eqipment to facilitate the
preparaion of syllabuses and associated materials, by curriculum officers; (d) additional
print unit equipment to increase production capaciq; (e) refurbishing and equipping of
th exisng print unik (estimated at US$135,000); and (f) construction and equipping
of a warehouse (for textbook and educational material storage), within the Government
Supplies Office (GSO) estimated at US$450,000.
2.22        Extensive discussion has taken place with MEHRD officers on materials
acquisiion and distribution. The following basic principles have been formulated and
accepted as the basis for project support for the initW development of a centralized
system for primary and secondary schools: (a) that an "education stores unit' be
constructed within the Government Supplies Office (GSO); (b) at SIG grants for
prinary school supplies be directed to MEHRD for acquisition and distribution (direct
to schools) of supplies, based on annual requisition; (c) that secondary schools would
handle their own fuds and order supplies directly from GSO (or other suppliers);
(d) that schools which required additional supplies and had funds available, could
purchase stocks directly from GSO (or other suppliers); (e) that separate bank accounts
rlating to supplies be established and be subject to annual audit; and (f) that provision
be made within the system for cost recovery mechanisms to be put in place where
applicabl. Annex 11 outlines the process for procuring and distbuting educational
mterials utlizin cost recovery approaches. By of June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall
take aU such acdons, as shaU be necessary, to adopt and, thereQter, bnkement
repknihnt and dtributdon proceduresfor educational materlaLt, satifactory to the
Associaon Assurances to this eFect was obtained during negotiations Lpara. 5.1 (c)l.
2.23        The project would fimd in-service training of primary teachers in the use
of the existing and new educational materials and textbooks developed at the CDC.
Anna 12 outiines the primay teachers in-service training schedule and estmated costs.
For secondary teachers, the train strategies would be teacher support through subject
panels, workshops and periodic visits to schools by curriculum officers. These
activities would contnhe to be largely funded through MEHRD. It is important to note
ta the private schools would also benefit from the teacher upgrading, supply of
educationa materials and management training activities of the project.
Nurses' Training
2.24        In response to a mnrse shortage identified by MHMS and EEC Health
Financing study the project would assist SIG expand its nurse trainig capacity at
SICHE. The project would undertake to increase the supply of nurses by raising
enrollment to 50 per year (current capacity 25-30), divided into two cohorts of 25, and
improve the quality of their training by increasing and strengtening the School of



- 21 -
Nursing at SICHE's Kukum campus. The content of the nurse curriculum will be
reviewed and the training capacity expanded. New dormitory facilities will be
consoldated at one site, as nurses are currently housed at a distnce from te
classrooms. Placing all related facilities at one site will assist coordination, reduce
management and associated travel costs and improve the overall efficiency of the
training progrm and the flexibility with which the training infuctre can be utilized
as programs adjust to new demands. A lower cost and more effective transport pool
to enable the students to move between the Kukum campus and the Centra Hosptal
will be established under the project which will provide for the purchase of vehicles and
maintenance and operational support on a declining basis. Classroom and laboratory
facilities and staff houses will be provided to allow the School of Nursing to start
selected diploma courses, such as midwifery. These revised programs and new
facilities will allow SICHE, in cooperation with MHMS, to run short training courses
(1-2 weeks) for existg and new midwifes. Staff training and technical assistance will
be financed to further develop the School of Nursing's capacity to provide a high
standard of training. To facilitate coordination between SICHE and the Ministry of
Heat  and Medical Services (MHMS) it was agreed at negodations that the Borrower
would, by Januy 1, 1994, (a) appoint a representadvefrom the Borrower's Mnsny
of Health and Medical Services to the SICRE CowwlL and (b) create as a conmmitee
of the SICHE Council a nurse advisory committee with membeship and terms of
reference satifactory to the Assocation and to review, on an annual basis, the tradnng
needs and skls of the different categories of nurses and thereafter, adise SICHE
accordingly  ara 5.1(d)). See Annex 13 for draft TORs for the Nurse Advisor
Committee.
2.25        Existing training facilities at the Kukum Campus will be re-modelled and
refurbished and capacity increased by constructing, equipping and funishi  five
additional classrooms, a demonstration room, staff houses, a library and acillay
faciLities. The project will re-furbish existng office accommodaton to provide for an
additional 9 staff and administrave offices for 15 people. The student body will be
accommodated at the campus through the development of dormitory facilties sufficient
to house a total of about 170 students. A 15-seater bus will be provided to enable a
transport pool to be established at the School of Nursing to permit the easy transfer of
students from the campus to clinical training facilities at the Central Hospital. Provision
is made to replace the bus in the last year of the project. Due to shift work, the school
will require one additional driver. An additional vehicle and a motorcycle will be
acquired to facilitate field work.
2.26        A progran of further staff development for the School of Nursing Wil
be undertaken including overseas training and provision for staff to undert  distance
leaning programs from overseas universities/nrsing colleges on a part tme basis.
Twelve months of technical assistance will be provided to assist in curriculm review
(terms of reference are included in Working Papers) and provision is made for up to
twelve additional peron months to permit further technical assistance to develop new
courses as required. Agreement on terms of reference for such technical asstance will
be approved by the Bank prior to selection of consultats. Overall staff strengh at the
Sdhool will be increased by 6 positions and will be supported through the project on a



- 22 -
declining scale. All staff recruited to the School of Nursing and Health Sciences
without teacher training qualifications will undertake a formal teacher training courses
(tree months full-time equivalent over twelve months) as part of an overall SICHE
program designed to ensure that all staff develop appropriate teadhing skills. The
project will provide, on a declining basis, for operational support and the ma_itce
of facilities, vehicles and equipment.
2.27        To satisfy requirements entailed in the nursing curriculum, such as
conducting 15 supervised deliveries, some students will need to undertake part of their
training off-campus at selected provincial hospitals as thers is an insufficient case load
to permit all students to fulfill their clinical requirements at the Central Hospital. All
students are also required to undertake community based training which means spending
teaching blocks at rural health facilities and the neighboring communities. The project
will support off-campus activities for fulfillment of course requirements. Ihe SICHE
off-campus sites are listed in Annex 14. By May 1, 1994, the Borrower shall, or shall
cause MEHD to, fiurish to the Assocation, for Is review and comnents, proposed
arrangements for the carnying ow of the off-caus nurse traing program under the
Project, Including lodging arrangements therefor, and thereafter, takng Itho account
the Associatons comments, Ilement such arrangemens. An agreeme  to this effect
was received during negotations [para. 5.1 (eJ].
2.28        For additional hospital based training, it is intended to use the clinical
capacity of Kili1'ufi and KiraKira hospitals for second and third year students.
Accommodation for up to 12 students (8 on clinical atachment and 4 at Auki
clinic/outreach service) and a supervisor will be provided at Kilu'ufi hospital. At
KiraKira Hospital in Makira province, use can be made of existng accommodation
facilities. Provision is made in the recurrent budget for transportation expenses for
students assigned to the provincial hospitals and to mral health facilities.
2.29        To improve the capacity of the School to provide community based
traiiing in a systematic manner the project will provide accommodation at selected rural
health facilities in Guadalcanal and Malaita provinces (see Annex 14 for locations).
The acconsmodation will vary with location and the capacity of each site to tak-e second
and third year students. In some cases there are viable alternatives to construction of
new facilities. Construction will use semi-permanent materials. Only one site, Aola,
Guadalcanal, winl be used for community atachment of first year stdents. At selected
sites, sudents will be provided with bicycles to facilitate community visits.
Stadf Development
2.30        The project would improve efficiency and management of the education
system and its institutions by: (a) undertakng nationally based hands-on training of
MEHRD and provincial support, middle-level and management staff (based on a survey
of all MEHRD staff); (b) supporting national (SIG/MEHRD) cost share of UNESCO
run courses for principals and South Pacific Board of Examination and Assessment
(SPBEA) assessment courses which have and are being offered, on an annual basis, to
all the Pacific countries; and (c) providing fimds for national/provincial conferences to



- 23 -
review and finalize the draft policy handbook and to conduct an anmual review of the
fiancial plan.
2.31        lhe project would provide training for staff in MEHRD's central office,
the CDC, the National LIbrary, the inspectorate and the provincial education offices,
in order to improve their awareness of fteir duties and to hicrease their skills in
performing these tasks. These training needs were Identified by a training needs
analysis undertaken during the ongoing Secondary Education Project. Skill shortages
were identified in five key areas: communication, computer skills, data manipulation,
management decision-making process/training and specialized group needs. Having the
expertise, SICHE is able to provide most courses in-ountry through its School of
Finance and Admistration. Training should be practical, orented toward problem-
solving, desk related, modular when possible, and offered in half-day sessions to avoid
undue disruption. The traimnig divided ito ftree groups: (a) in-ountry training;
(b) overseas feliowships and attachmnts; and (c) technical assistance are listed in
Anne 15. It was agreed at negotiations thwt by October 15, 1993, the Borrower shall
fig7dsh to the Association, for Its review and comments, a proposed staff development
aing progranfor MEHRD and the SICHE wlU commence on January 15, 1994, and
thereater, taking Into account the Association's comments, np1ment such training
program /para 5.1 (f).
2.32        The MEHRD has nominated a Staff Development Officer (SDO) to
coordate the staff development activites witin MEHRD. The SDO would liaise with
SICHE to ensure effective design and delivery of all training activies and that costs
remain within the budgetary allocations. The SDO would, in addition, assist MEHRD;s
mplementation and Planning Unit (IPU) keep records on all taining programs and
record the use of all fiuns. Funding for the training programs would be obined from
the Special Account, following annual review and agreement by IDA of proposed
training activites.
2.33        Conferences and workshops have been included under Staff Development
since they form an integral part of the development and training of senior staff
(Annex 15). Tbree catgories have been identified:  (a) an Anmual Consukative
Conference for ree to five days for MEHRD and provincial education officials for two
years; (b) two anmal workshops on assessment conducted by SPBEA officers but with
the local participant costs being financed by the project; and (c) the conftnuation of the
UN4ESCO training for primary headmasters with local participant costs being financed
by te project
2.34        The project would provide local costs for the primary school principals
to participte in UNESCO teaching courses in school magement and multi-class
teacing. UNESCO would supply the maris and speiali. The local costs for
these courses, are exected to be about US$70,000 (Annl   15). The courses have
already been offered in other Pacific countries with a very positive impact on the qualit
of education, improved methodology and managem    All 443 primary principals
would receive management training, about 100 per year (2 courses of about 50 lastng
one week) over the project period. About 20 curriculum nd inspectorate officers



- 24 -
would be given a two week multi-class training session and they In turn would go to the
provinces and teach a one week course to all primary techer (about 2,000 in 1992)
over the period of the project.
2.35        The same situation applies for the SPBEA which offers free instructors
and materials but do not cover the national costs. The Solomon Islands has not been
able to sufficiently improve the quality of their assessment procedures and with the
unification of the secondary programs will require some assistance and training
programs. The project will cover courses in the opeation of examinations, assessment
and preparation of exam questions with the total costs esdmaed at US$25,000
(Annex 15). This program would train key administrators, inspectors, curriculum
developers, provincial staff and secondary principals in assessment.
2.36        Policy Handbook. The Project would support, over a period of two
years, Technical Assistance (TA) for the further development of the MUMRD Policy
Handbook, workshops/conferences for consultation on related policy and legislative
cages, and the production (some 1000 copies) and distribution of the Handbook.
2.37        Primary School Administrative Manual. MEHRD has now drafted a
very useful administrative manual for primary schools. The project would support both
the provision of editorial assistance to complete the manuscript and fte production
(some 600 copies) and distribution of the Manual to all pdmary principals, provincial
administrators, inspectors and teacher trainers.
2.38        Studies. MEIHRDtunng the Secondary Education Project, successfilly
undermok with consultant assistance, key sectoral studies reviewing sectoral issues.
Based on that successful experience, the project will allocate about US$150,000 for the
NMHRD to undertake specific sectoral studies such as review of examination and
assessment procedures and standardizaon of planning data with each estimated to cost
about US$35,000. Funds would also be provided for fuure project preparation.
2.39        Technical Assistance. Technical assistance would be required for:
(a) project implementation including physical and educational coordination and
procurement; (b) curriculm development hrough the supply of an wassociate typeW
expert at the primary level and development and production of materials; (c) seondary
teacher upgrading; and (d) the inspectorate. Akhough bilateral grant flnacing is being
sought for most of the above, IDA financing would be reserved for the key
implementation and  procurement functions.  Overseas fellowships and technical
assistance are listed in Annex 16. The project will supply 4,550 fellow days of overseas
fellowships, 1,910 staff days of technical assistance for CDC material advances and
1,990 staff days for project management related activities.



-25 -
D. EMERGENCY CYCLONE REu
2.40        As a result of thee Jan   1 to 3, 1993 Cyclone Nina, primary school
fcilities In four provinces of the Solomon Islnds were seriously damaged or destoyed.
SIG, havi  obtained other donor support for the province of Rennell-Bellona,
reqsted that IDA consider finandal 8upport for fte rehabilitation and reconsuction
of eduatio facilities (clssrooms and tacher houses) and the purchase of education
material and equiment for the three remainig provlnces. SIG frnshed IDA wfih
a list of the primary schools damaged or destroyed ad the estimated cost of repairing
them. SIG confirmed that all the schools, on te list are located at sites secured by
either the central or provincial governments and tha the operations of such schools i8
under their control and supervision.
2.41        i was agreed to Include as part of the Credit, a special category entiled
Cyclone Relief" with an allocation of about US$2.0 million for rehabiliton and
reconstruction based on folowing criteria:
(a)   no classroom serving  wer than 15 sudents would be buik;
(b)   facilties would not be duplicatd within a catchment area and would be
constucted at locations identified by the School Mapping Exercise;
(c)   each school would include community and parental pardcipation for the
supply of ancillary facilities such as kitchens and sragerooms; and
(d)   a suitable clasom design recorded within the Borrower's Minitry of
Tnport, Works and Utilities and acceptable to the Association, would
be utilized.
2.42        Based on the receipt of a fina list of schools, acceptable to IDA and in
accordance with the above criteria, the project would wudtake the rehabiliation or
reconstructon of classrooms and staff houses at about 60 primary schools located in
Gualcanal, Makr and Temotu provinces. The project wou  also include the
provision of educadonal materias, textbooks, equipment and school supplies for these
damaged schools. As conditons of disbsements, the Borrower wil submIt to ID
(a) a Am of schook to be rehablitated or reconstrced, Inluin  detafied cost
esties for cost sdhooli based on selcton crteria and consuction deiVp
sattfac'y to IDA4 and 0b) evIdece hat a land and rights for all project schools
have been secured [para. 5.21.
E. FINANCING PLAN 1FoR TE EDUCATION SECrOR
2.43        MIe project, in collaboraton with SIG officials from MEIRD, MOFEP
and MPA has developed through a review of the exist  practices and broad diretives
a fnning plan to addrs   exing weanes  of educational fiancing. [he plan
would consist of principles, target and mechanisms. The goal of the financing pla
is to establish a rationalized financing system for primary and secondary education.



- 26 -
lhe objectives are three-fold: (a) develop a unit-cost based fonnula for central
government grants/subsidies; (b) establish a workable mechanism for a flow of funds;
and (c) establish a budgetary process to support such a fund flow.
2.44        Annex 1- describes the financing plan formulas for determining unit
recurrent costs per stuctent for primary and secondary education and outlined the
proposed roles and responsibilities of relevant agencies witin the financial plan are
outined in Annex 18.
2.45        Princpies of Cost Sharing. The principles of cost shring among three
parties the central govermnent, the provincial governments, and the parents are
described below:
Central Government Financing
2.46        The policy goal would be for the central government resources to be
allocated equitably to all schools, and used for key quality inputs. Since SIG funds
cannot cover the actual total needs, supplementary funding will continue to be required
from parents and other sources. Central government financing would continue to fund
teacher salaries, which constitute about 95 percent and 65 percent of govermment
contributions for primary and secondary education, r-spectively, and part of the school
operatng costs. The numbers of primary teachers will continue to be determined
cenrally, but enforcement would be tightened to ensure equitable distribution and
prevent the uncontrolled growth as was evident in the past few years.ll/ Posting
of secondary teachers would be re-centralized and allocations made in accordance with
agreed teacher subject needs and contact hours.
2.47        The central government contribution to operating cost financing for all
public schools would be based on a single unit-cost-based formula, which would be
reviewed annually to account for inflation. Explicit allowances would be made for
school size, and distance of schools, and for level of education. Central government
funds should be reserved, in the first instance, for operational costs directly related to
essendal quality inputs, such as textbooks and educational materials for core subjects.
Boarding related expenses such as subsistence and travel should be borne by parents.
Proincil Government Financing
2.48        In addition to central government resources that are transferred to schools
trough provincial governments, some provincial govermments would be able to provide
additional rsources to schools from their own revenues other than school fees.
Hower, in the short to medium term, most provinces are not expected to establish
iV To avoid past pimy staff increases which have averaged as high as 20 pcnt per annum,
each provice wold have less control over teacher recrutment. Each prvice would be limited
to a fixed gowth, say 4 perent per calendar year (fixed anuwally), and would receive a
budgou allocation which could not be exceeded. In additi, all appoitments would hav to
be justified and would not be automatic, allowing MEHRD and MOFEP to control the anmnul
-Ay bud-



-27
sufficiently independent revenue bases enabling them to provide separate provinial
subsidies above and beyond school fees and central funds. To the extent such
contributions occur, they should be used to lessen the share of tuition fees charged to
parents.
Parental Contributions (Cost Recovery)
2.49        It is already clear that central government funds will not be sufficient to
support the needs of primary and secondary education even without expansion. This
means that an increasing share of educational financing should be borne by parents.
In the long term, all differences between the required expenditures and central and
provincial government grants will have to be covered through fees charged to parents.
Costs related to boarding would be gradually trasferred from a prime MEHRD support
to a user fee charged to parents through a higher levels of fees for boarders to
encourage attendance at lower cost day schools. The presen situation of total cost
recovery for secondary textbooks through parentallstudent fees or school (through user
fees) would continue.
2.50       Exemption of Fees for Students from Low-Income Fam31ies. A pilot
scheme of exempting fees for students from low-income families would be initiated
country-wide and modelled after existing practices in some provinces. Under such a
scheme, students who are unable to pay fees would submit an application for
exemption, supported by a recommendation from a significant community person (e.g.
chief, priest). Such exemption would be granted only to students who have been
acepted by a secondary school based on their merits. A medium-term financing plan
for primary and secondary levels is included in Annex 19.
Mechanisms for a Flow of Funds and Delivery of Goods/Services
2.51       Primary Education. The central grants for primary schools should be
protected a. the provincial levels, preferably through setting up a separate account
Education materials orders would be collected by the provinces and sent on to the
MUMRD which would be responsible for bulk procurement using Government Supply
Office (GSO), outside printers and other private sector agents.
2.52        Secondary Education. The goal is for individual secondary schools to
take full responsibility in financial management of their resources with explicit auditing
and reporting obligations, under supervision of their respective boards of maagement
and educational authorities. Some provinces have already taken steps in this direction
by establishing individual school accounts. In the short term, individual secondary
schools may not have the capacity to manage their fmances, and it would be necessary
to have technical support from the provincial treasury while fte financial responsibility
is gradually transferred. The short term reqrement would then be to establish in 1994
or at the latest by 1995, school accounts for all secondary schools at the provincial
levels, into which both central grants and fees would be deposited. An important
precedent for specialized provincial level accounts exists in health, where the central
government grants are direcdy deposited into separate accours. It would be necessary



-28 -
to develop effective mechanisms with all provinces for the application of similar
principles in establishing individual secondary school accounts.
2.53        Anotier important qualification in the principle of financial autonomy
arises from efficiency considerations. It has not been efficient for individual schools
or provinces to negotiate procurement o. essential supplies for schools. Based on
provincial request, a centralized procurement and distribution system would be
established, similar to that of the primary school (para. 2.48). If GSO could not
provide materials, within a period of six months, or at a compedtive cost, schools
should have the option, following review with MEHRD officials, to use the private
sector suppliers.
2.54        MEHRD. MEHRD would be responsible for procurement of essentW
supplies such as texbooks and equipment with assistance of GSO and outside prtilng
agencies or private sector. MEHRD would prep3re an order form together with a price
list for distribution to schools. MEHRD would also be responsible for guidelines for
minimum  facilities standards, and lists of necessary equipment and pedagogical
materis. MEHRD would also establish principles for ensuring financial accountability
of schools to their respective boards of management, and educational authorities. In
FY 1994, all schools already operating under autonomous agements would be
requested to submit financial reports in a given format to (a) their boards of
management, (b) educational authorities, and (c) MEHRD. Such financial reports
would be used as an input for revising the centl government financing formnula for
budgets starting in FY 1996. MEHRD is also responsible for providing schools with
up-o-date information about what changes they should anticipate from the financing
plan through the provincial education officers.
2.55        Provincial Governments. As part of the financial plan, provincial
governments would establish separate school accounts for all PSSs no la  thnm
FY 1994, to which al cenral subsidies as well as al fees coUected should be
deposited. Provincial education offices would be responsible for distributing to both
primary and secondary schools the budget sununary that identifies levels of government
resources available to individual schools from central and provincial subsidies. They
would also distribute and collect order forms to and from schools to be submitted to the
MEHRD. The provincial treasuries may provide accountng and advisory services to
schools in the short to medium term. Special training of school principals and bursars
will also be needed so that they can take full responsibility by FY 2004. The provincial
governments would be responsible for overseeing that the schools are financially
accountable to their respective boards of management.
2.56        Schools. The schools would in the long term have consolidated budgets
consising of revenues from the government grants and fees, and could plan their
expenditues according to curricula guidelines provided by the MEHRD.
2.57        Secondary schools would be permitted to draw their funds from
individual school accounts at their discretion.  Iitially, arrangements to require
provincial endorsement for school decisions above a certain discretionary level may be



-29 -
ined. For instance, a counter-signature arrmgement whereby both the principal
and the provincil treasurer need to sign to release funds may, if necessary, be used.
Ledgers may also be nitially be kept at the provincial level, but quarterly reports
should be submitted to schools, so that schools would be constantly aware of their
budgetary situations.
2.58        In the long term, requirements for external approval for school
expenditures would be phased out, as schools improve their capacity for fnancial
management. Schools would be responsible for (a) a financial plan at the beginning of
the year; and (b) a financial report at the end of the year for review by both the
provincial  thorities and school boards of management.
2.59       Tertiary Education. Cost recovery in tertiary education is another area
that requires urgent attention. At present, the central subsidy for educadon in SICHE
is at about SBD 7,500 per year per student. The recurrent budget for SICHE
constudts about 25 percent of the government educational recurrent expenditures,
which is large in comparison to the international average, especially given the small
enrollment ratio. In the long term for the recurrent budget for SICHE it would be
advisable to limit costs to those of central administration, with the running costs of
individual Schools covered by the charging of differential fees to students.
2.60        Central support then would be channeled to SICHE through multiple
sources: the recurrent budget for SICHE and fellowships granted by line ministries,
which cover 57 percent of the existing students (e.g., MEHRD) for teachers and MHMS
for nurses). The policy for fuiancing domestic fellowships at SICHE needs to be
reviewed carefully, especially to seek contributions from the government-sponsored
fellows who are paid full salaries from the govermnent and individually pay no fees.
The tuition for national fellowships for all trainees should be gradually raised from the
current level of SBD 500-800 to about SBD 1,500, or about 20 to 35 percent of the
oWl costs by year 2000.
2.61        Mechansms for Revising the Fnancing Plan. The financing plan
would be reviewed and updated annually during the project through experimentation.
For instance, unit cost requirements would be refimed considerably during the course
of the project as curricula and material needs become better defined. Unit costs would
also need to be updated annually for inflation. Revisions would be reported to IDA on
an anmal basis, but at any point in time, the plan would constitute a set of agreed
principles and mechanisms.
2.62       By October 15, 1994, and thereafter by October 15, of each year, the
Borrower shaU carry out an annual budgetary andfonuda-based uwit cost reviews to
strengthen the flnaning of Its educatlon system, and thereafter, exchange views with
the Assockiaon on the fndings and recommendatons thereof An assurance to tis
effect was received during negotations [para. 5.1 (g)].
2.63        Projec Rationalization Efforts. The project will, through the re-
centralization of teacher appointment based on subject specializations and contact hours,



- 30 -
assist MEHRD gradually rationalize the use of teachers. That rationalization would re-
allocate about 62 existing teachers at an average salary of SBD 12,000 p.a. resulting
In savings of about SBD 774,000.
2.64        In addidon to teacher costs the projected student enrollment increases
would generate additional recurrent costs, but with over 30 percent of the expansion
beig allocated for day students, important infrastructure costs and particularly lower
estnaed annual recurrent costs of about SBD 1.0 million per annum would be
achieved.
2.65        The proposed secondary expansion, estimated at 40 percent, supported
by the project, would require about 120 additional teachers without rationalization.
Thus, if the present inefficient secondary expansion had been implemented it would
have resulted in almost SBID 2,000,000 of additional costs annually. The planned
rationalization will reduce by half the secondary expansion teacher costs and allow
MEHRD to gradually replace expatriates by national teachers. The cost of expatriste
teachers 12/ is about SBD 10,000 slightly higher than salaries for recent SICHE
graduates which average about SBD 8,000 p.a. In addition, to reduce teacher costs,
the project will assist MEHRD through a more equitable grant system to retain
secondary costs at a constant with the only budgetary increase resulting from an
increase in enrollment. These unit costs will be lower because of the increased focus
on the enrollment of day students.
2.66        SIG/MEHRD would rationalize the fees at SICHE by increasing, to a
more realistic level, the present fees paid by 43 percent of the enrollment (now paying
about SBD 500 p.a.) and simultaneously initiate a gradual transfer of fees from
Government to 57 percent of the in-service trainees, now on full salary, maing it
possible to cover all the costs from the project's increased participation in teacher and
nurse training programs. A gradual increase of SICHE fees to about SBD 1,500, which
is only about 70 percent of the 1992 fees paid at Honiara International Day School,
would appear realistic.
2.67        It is estimated that the overall project, including the inputs from aU the
bilateral donors, will increase MEHRD's recurrent budget requirements by about
1-2 percent annually, during the project period, reaching about 7 percent by year 1999
(end of project). Within that scenario MOFEP annual allocations, based on a constant
unit cost allocation would be primarily a derivative of increased enrollments.
)2 It should be noted tat exp t teacher costs are about equivalent to national salaies and
replcing them by nationals will not increase the salary cost.



-31 -
3
PROJECT COSTS, FNANCING AND BMLEMENTATION
A. PtoJECr COSTS
3.1         Project Ulrondg. Te total project cost is esmaed to be US$18.8
million equivalet including US$15.7 million in baseline cost and US$3.1 milion in
contngencies. The esmated costs by project component is summarized In Table 3.1
and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Detailed project costs by year, purpose
and components can be found in Annexes 20 and 21.
Basi of Cost FA1i1U8teS
3.2         Construction costs, based on contract awards for simia filities in
Solomon slands, have been estimated (March 1993) using SBD 900 to SBD 1,300 per
squa  meter for academic, comnunal and boadg facilites (depending on the
standard of the chools) and SBD 1,500 to SBD 1,600 per square meter forhousig and
toilet facilities. Site worb have been estmated from 5 percento 12 percent of the
contuction cost for new facilities, and on a case by case basis for particular work
(waer supply and reticulation, drainage and access roads). Professional services
(technical, arcbitectural and site supervision) are estmated at 6 to 10 percent of civil
works costs (conuction and site development). Furniture costs vary depdig o. *he
ondition of each existing school and are estimte on the basis of standard unit costs
for secondary school facilites and on the basis of 4 percent of costruction costs for the
new facilities at the School of Nursing. The cost of equipment has been estmated on
the basis of a stndard set per scool and per kind of facilty. Equpment, educatona
materials, txtbooks, school supplies, funiu  and construction materials imported
under the project would be exempt from duties and taxes. Fellowsi costs have been
estimaed at US$1401day (US$18,000 to 25,000 per annum).
Contingency Alowances
3.3         Physical coingencies are etmated at 10 percent for civil works,
furniture, equipment, educational materils, textbooks and school supplies, 5 percen
for tedmical assistance, t , studies, salaries and operatig costs, and 0 percent for
cyclone relief. Price increase conftingencies were estimated on the basis of the
implementation schedule (Annex 22) and on expected auwal price Increases of
9.5 percent awaly for local costs and 3.1 percent anuly for foreign costs.
Accordingly, total contingencies reprse  about 12 percent of baseline costs phls
physical co       .



62.vS    7A110#tt1  1:                              5
N4tt41.f4Ww t1n          1.1      4.        1         2       02        14
IIttitsat*4in1 tit.0             I7,11     10.o      0.1      7.       4,7 .   16
(tft u 1r1t    3 k i8 t  0.1       1 .7   4.3        01  1.10          1.1   01
t1n*s4tl.bthr t.p141    0).      41.4       1.1     41,7      01       OA'   2t
14411141111      93        5,31     70.4      30.       5.8     2.5    7o
"*}{}Atl CiJt4          30       3.7       C,.?      40*      .2       *R    53
TPROWt titi preVlts      0.4       (I.!,:    (3       01 I     0.1      0.1   5t
18  tit im  d"Vel3.mpl   ().I     I.t       I.2      1.1      4.3      0.4   55
Voetzle  prnltethm      1 0.6     3u       4.5       0.2      1.3      I.'    s
ln-ietvive tmldngt      l.2.      OA.       1.t      o.4      012      0.h    )
snybldsel t.1 11r                 .5       7.4      0.7       l.l     2.0   70
Nut" trithihig,,
At MVI-Itt              3.0     2.5        6.1       I.1      I.6      17.7    55
li the provi.ve.        1.        2 (2.1  t3.3       U 0.I    0.1      1.1    53
stie.e i.n                       4.0       6.2      1.4       1.0      2.4    Ng
glbftdevehopmei          0.3       o.1       I.u      n. I      .3      0.4   fi7
(velto rewilef            .5       3.5                 WO0  .   1.I     2.0    so
ftfoIIn e              18.1     28.!      46.6      6.1      9.4i    017    61
cont,n endewe
lthv1841'.41            1.3       2,U       3.3      U.       tl.1     1.1    el
Note finereme           4.1       2.o      o.J       1.4      (1.0     2.0)   32
Sultntal                5.4      4.0       9.4      J.0       1.3     3.1    43
Total proJeert n..    1 .          _3 *1           7.      iSL      AL"  
Le   AtQ wearly atl goods tnd eeonetrctiiin nmterinls winuid be dwedtly Impnorted for the xrject,
taites would lie ttegigitble. tReptee. goods f et    cite ice exempt fwm duUe.
3A4           The foreiges exchange componetit of US$10.9 million (about 58 percent
of the total estimatcA project co4li hon been calculated on the basis of the following
estimated  foreign exchange percentages:   civil works and ftrniture-55 percent,
equiptielent, educational material. textbrooks and school tipplies, expatriate consultants
and  tutidles-90 percent, overseas fellowships-100 percent, arcilitectural consulting
sorviceo, local consultantg, and  operating  costs-50 percent, local tralning  and
workshnp#-20 perceti, and salaries.-40 pereent.



- 33 -
Table 3.2: SuAxY  OF PROjECT Co' BY CATEGORY OF EXITWIE
SDmillion             mUS  mio 
Lacal Foreign   otl   AKl  Foreigp
Investment costs:
Civil Woks           9.6    11.8    21.4       3.3     3.9    7.2   SS
Equipment, dctoa
laterials, textbooks
sad 8chool supplies  0.5     4.7     5.2      0.)     1.7    1.8   90
Furniture            0.4     0.5      0.9     0.1     0.2    0.3   SS
Tehia assistance     1.4      S.1     6.5     O.S      1.7    2.2   79
LTn                 1.7     O.S      2.2     0.6     0.1    0.7   20
Over8sea             -      0.9      0.9      -      0.3    0.3  100
Stdies               0.1      0.4     O.S     0.0     0.2    0.2   90
Subtotl           13.7    23.9    37.6      4.6     8.1    12.7   64
RecureM costL
Salaies              0.8       -      0.8     0.2       -     0.2    0
Opeting costs        1.1      1.1     2.2     0.4     0.4    0.8   50
Subtotal           1.9      1.1     3.0     0.6     0.4      1.0   37
Cyclne reLef          2IS      3.5      6.0     0.9     1.1    2.0   S8
Baseine cost      18.1    28.5    46.6      6.1      9.6   15.7   61
Contiaeacies:        1.3      2.0     3.3     0.4     0.7      1.1   62
Puce ineas           4.1      2.0     6.1     1.4     0.6    2.0   32
Subtotl            5.4      4.0     9.4     1.8      1.3    3.1   43
Total project cost La 23.S    32.5    56.0  7.9    10.9   18.8   S8
, As neady all goods cad consuctoan  mar  would be diectly imported fbr the prect,
taxes would be negligible.  1orted goods for government use are exempt fom dutie.
B. FrANC1NG
3.5         The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.2 million (equivalent to about
US$16.9 million) would finance about 90 percent of total estmated project costs,
includifg 97 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the part of project (US$10.9
milion) and 80 percent of the local cost of the project (US$7.9 million). A Japmese
grnt of about US$0.8 million has also been obtained to support project preparation and
start-up activities such as technical assistance for site surveys, review of curriculum for
the teacher upgrading program and nurses' surveys. The activities to be financed by
other bilatera sources in the form of gras are detailed in Annex 4.



-34-
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ muon - induding             )
Category of                           Japan                       IDA
Expediture              Governmt   Grant    IDA    Total         Share
(%)
Civil works                  0.5         -      8.6     9.1       95
Equpmnt educational
materials, textbk,
school supplies, and funiture  0.2     -      2.3     2.5        90
Technical assistance          -         0.8     1.7     2.Sf,     70
Training                      -          -      1.3     1.3       100
Sudies                        -          -      0.2     0.2       100
Project maagement ad
incremental opertg costs lk  0.4       -      0.8      1.2       60
clone relief                  -          -      2.0     2.0       99
Total                    1.1        0.8    16.9    18.8        90
La Includes professional services for civil worms.
ib  inchldes additional adminitrative expeniurs for te IPU, irases in
oeating costs of the scondary schoob and the School of Nursin not
covered by school fees, operation and maintenance of vehicles, travel costs,
off-campus lodgin and allowances for mnuses and sal  and allowances for
additional SICHE staff.
Recuent expenditures
3.6         The project would geerate increment  recurrent expenditure relatd
maily to salars, training of tachers, studens' costs and maintence costs. When
fully  opetional in  1999, the  project's  estimated  recurrent expendiu
requkems l/ would amount to SBD 3.6 million (US$1.2 million equvalent) per
anmun which is equivalent to about 7 percent of the total budget for education (national
and provincial levels for 1992).
C. PRojEr MANAGNm     AND iMPLIImqTAtON
3.7         Overall responsibilit for coordination of project implementfion will be
through MNHRD's Implementation and Planing Unit (IPU), in cooperation with
I/ Iludmg all item fimded fram b iatml  tnce.



- 35 -
MOPEP and provincial authorities. MEHRD departnents will be responsible for
specific components. SICHE will work closely with MEHRD/IPU for the teacher
training and nurses training components. Since the eight provincial education offices
will be directly involved in the project, clear communication chanels will be
established. Ihe IPU, first established under the Secondary Education Project, is fulUy
stafed and has acquired sufficient experience, but it will still need technical assistce
for procurement matters as well as civil works monitoring. At negotations, the
Borrower agreed to mantin the IPU headed by an experienced and qual0ed officer,
ad vest t with such responsitMes, fnds and qua/e sAff, inclung an education
planner, a prinipal accountant, an Implementation officer, and a procurement officer,
as shaU be required to enable the IPU to undertake the overal coordiation of the
Project para. 5.1(h)]. TORs, which were agreed at Appraisal, are included in the
Working Papers.
3.8         MEHRD/IPU will be responsible for project imp tion with
assistance from the MTWU, the Provincia Departments of Tranrt, Works, and
Utilities, the Environmental and Healt Division of the MHMS and the MPA.
3.9         Several IPU  staff will benefit from  short-term  training directed
specidfically to management and implementation of World Bank education projects.
Annual review meetings, including representatives from AIDAB, NZ, ODA, IDA and
SIG would be scheduled to ensure contiud cooperation. The annual meedng would
review progress and plan the strategy for the coming year.
3.10        Taking into accoun the lessons of previous implemenation experience,
the implementation of the proposed project will include the following steps for all
components involving the construction, rehabiltation and/or expansion of school
falidties: (a) specific requiements and architecturd briefs to be cleared with IDA,
MTWU  and the Health authorities prior to embarldng on architectu   designs;
(b) ar schtual designs md bid doumments to be cleared with the same group prior to
tendering; (c) general and specific maintenance guidelines to be provided to people in
charge of running the physical facilities prior to the delivery of the facilities; and
(d) appropriate maintenance budgets to be allocated to schools to be directy handled
by headmaster. See Anex 22 for a detailed supervision plan and implementation
schedule for each project component.
3.11        In view of the limted capacity of the MTWU, and the geographical
dipersion and inaccessibility of several proposed project sites, strong physical/tecnical
coordination would be required as would periodic technical assistance for the
implemention of policies, project management and procurement. Terms of reference
for each of the proposed technical assistance posts and for the overse  attachments and
training can be found in the Worldng Papers. At negotiation, the Borrower agreed to
employ, Inter alla, the folowing consultas for the following perlods.  (a) by
Novmtber 1, 1993, managment and procurement consultanus for an aggregate period
of about three steff years; and (b) by February 1, 1994, architectural consultants for
an aggregate period of about two stffyears (para. S.IO)].



-36 -
Ptfommce, MonitoMnog and Reporttng
3.12        mple     on perfo     e would be montored in four ways:
(a)   a semi-annual report would be wrtten by the IPU and submidtd to the
Bank at he mid- and end of every year (June and December), to Inclde
a summary by component of the Implention progress (ac   vwersus
planned), a financi summary, an updated schedule, a liH of Issues and
problems and te expected work plan for the following period;
(b)   IPU would update annually th  key indicators and imp    on
schedule for the physical, fimacial and pedagogical aspects of the
project. These key indicators would include: enrollment ratios, female
particpaton rates, subject peiods per week, teaing loads, room
utilization percentges, budget estmates, pupil costs, equipmen costs,
mantenanc  costs, building norms, construction unit costs, etc.
(Annexes 8 and 22);
(c)   at the annual review, these monitoring reports would be made available
and disusd with the donor agencies; and
(d)   a mid-term review would be conducted in October 1996 during the d
year of the project implementation period, with IPU submittng the above
reports prior to the rview. The review would focus on (i) progress
made in quali  improvement through mates distribution, teacher
tring and curriculum developmem    i       that provided by donor
aistance; (il) civil works proarment and implementation mattoe; and
(ill) the fining plan.
3.13       At negotlaions, the Borrower agreed at by October 15, 1994 and
thaeeqer by October 15 of each year, t shaU car,y out an aual review to assess
Project       t     and there*ffer, Wom  the Assocdaon of the raults of such
reewls.  It atso agreed ta It shal carry ow a mid-em  review of proJect
1rWlMeaton by October 15, 1996, and *form the Associaon on the resus of suc
revewIpr  5. 1))1
3.14        The IPU would prepare and submit a project completion report to IDA
no later tm  six months after the Project Closing Date.



-37 -
Procremenlt
3.15         Pocurement arran em   are shown in Table 3.4 below:
Table 3.4: RoECT EXBYNDRE BY PnOCUM                      CATWGY
(US$ m;on)
Total 00st
Pocurement Method              incudn
Category of epediu          ICB     LCB    OtherLa   NBF        contigences
Civil wok                   9.1                                      9.1
(8.6)                                   (8.6)
Equipment, education        0.7      0.4        1.4                  2.5
mateials, textbooks,       (0.6)    (.4)      (1.3)                 (2.3)
farnitr and shool
Tecicdl assistance /b                           1.7      0.8         2.5
(1.7)                (1.7)
Training                                        1.3                  1.3
(1.3)                (1.3)
-tudies                                        0.2                   0.2
(0.2)                (02)
Project maagem    and                           1.2                  1.2
incmental opatig costs La                     (0.8)                 (0.8)
Cylone relief:
Civil work                        1.6       0.2                   1.8
(1.6)     (0.2)                 (1.8)
Equipment, educational   0.2                0.0                   0.2
mateals, textbooks     (0.2)              (0.0)                 (0.2)
and schools supplies
Total                      JU    La    M    u                       iL
(9.4)    (2.0)    (5.5)                (16.9)
Note: IDA-f_nncd amounts ar in brkets, Icluding contigence.
NBF - not Dank-financed (Jap  grnt)-
Ig  Includes prudent hopping, selection of conslants folowing IDA Guidein, direct
prouremet of propideury items and pinting of educational mateas by the CDC.
1k Includes professional services for civil wodr.
&   Igcludes addidonal admisatve exeditue for the IPU, ines In opatig  cost
of the sconday schools and tho School of Nursing not covered by shool fees,
opetion and     _       of velaes, tavel costs, off-campus lodging and allowanoes
for nurses and salais and allowances for addition  SICE staff.



- 38 -
3.16        Civil works totaling about US$9.1 million equivalent for education and
boarding facilies and staff houses at the eight PSSs, five JSSs, and the School of
Nursing in Honiara, for staff houses at SICHE, and for staff houses, a warhouse and
expansion and refurbishing of the printshop at the CDC would be tendered following
ICB procedures.  The supply of construction materials for the rehabilieonl
reconstruction of the prinary schools would be grouped, as far as possible, into
packges estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more each and would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures. Miscellaneous construction maerials in
packages estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of a comparison of price quotations obtaned from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines. Labor and supervision for the construction would be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of LCB procedurs.
3.17        Equipment, educational materials, textbooks and school supplies for all
components including cyclone relief, would be grouped, as far as possible, into
packages estimated to oost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more each and would be
warded on the basis of ICB procedures. Miscellaneous items in packag  estimated
to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$100,000, and priting and distrbution of educational materials and texdbooks
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. Educational
materials not to exceed 1,000 copies each, however, may be printed and ditbuted by
the CDC/MEHRD. Proprietary educational materials and textbooks may be procured
directly from publishers eligible under the Guidelines. Furiture may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. All of the above
wouid be in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the AssociatiWri. Consula
fianced under the Credit would be selected in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the
Use of Consulants.
3.18        Prior review by the Association of bidding documents and contract award
recommendations would be required for all contracts for civil works, fntre,
equipment, educational mtrials, textbooks and school supplies expected to cost more
than US$25,000 equval  and for all contracts for the supply of materias, labor and
construction supervision under the cyclone relief component. Other contracts would be
subject to post-review. For contracts for works to be awarded on the basis of ICB,
domesic contractors would be grwated a margin of preference of 7.5 percent. In
addition, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior IDA review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation, reports and conacts Shall not apply to consultant contracts esdmated to cost
less than US$10,000 equivalnt each. This exception to prior IDA review sl not
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals,
to single source selection of firms, to assigments of a critical nature as reaonably
determied by IDA and to the amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
US$10,000 equivalent or above.



-39 -
Spea Account
3.19       To faciliae disbursements, a Specal Account would be estabihed at the
Central Bank of Solomon Islands ad maintained in US Dollars with an authorized
allocation of US$1,200,000. Thbis Account would be used for both local and foreig
expendiur under all categories.  All expetures above US$75,000 could be
umite td directly to IDA for payment without using funds from the Specld Account.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account should be submitted to IDA on
a monthly basis or whenever the Account falls below 50 percent of the allocation,
whichever ocurs first.
3.20       Ibe proposed Credit of SDR 12.2 million (US$16.9 million equivalent)
would be disbursed over a period of six years. The disbursemen schedule lsted in
Amex 23 is based on the smplementation schedule and previous project experinc in
the cuntry and the sector. Disbursement against al contracts of less than US$25,000
eah would be made agst atments of expendthure. Docunon supporting tese
staements of expenditure would be retaed by the implementing agency for review by
IDA missions. All other expendiures would be fully do d. Dibursements are
expected to be complted by the June 30, 1999 Closing Date and would be made
agan  th  following categories of expenditt j:  (a) civil works-95 percen of
expendiures except for cyclone relief-100 percent of expenditr; equipment,
educational mrials, textbooks, school supplies and fniu  includg  cyclone
relief-100 percent of foreign expendtures for directly imported items, 100 percen of
local expedtures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured items and 70 percent of
for other Items procured locally; technical assistance (iclig
prfsonal services for civil works), training and studies-100 percent of total
expenditurs; and project management and incremental operating costs-100 percent of
total exeditrs in 1993 and 1994, 70 percent in 1995 and 1996 and 30 percent in
1997 and 1998. Dsbursements shaWl not be madefom the Orel for: (a) iv worts,
equipment, edicatonal materli, textboos and sdcools saqplIes and technil
asstawce for the expnon and renowaon of the PSS at Choiseul Bay (ChoIseul
province) nor of the JSSs at Gwaltnak  (Malalta province), Honiara (Honiara
Municpal Authority) and Santa Ana (Makira prvince), wntil the Borrower has entered
hito rangements satsactory to IMA to secure all land and rights In respect of kld
requIredfor carryg out this work, and hasfrnis    to IDA evidence saio ry to
IDA dta suci land and rights In respect of land are available for suck puposes; or
0b) cyclone re#lf unti the Borrower shaU have  nsd to lDA: () a ls satatry
to MDA, of schook to be rehabilitated/recontructed, inchding detaled esated costs
per school, the list to be based on sdcool seledion crteria and constucton designs
sado iry to IDA. and (Uf) evidec  saisfacory to IDA that the Borrower has secured
al land and rights In respect of land requiredjfor carying out this work (p4ra. 5.2).



-40-
Account and Audits
3.21        Ibe IPU would estabUsh a separe account for all project exenditur,
to be mantined in accordance with sound accounting practies. Project acounts
would be audited annally in acordance with procedures satisfacory to IDA and an
audt rort Qncuding separate audits relat  to disbursements a'tgain SOBs) submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of the Govent's fisc  year.



-41 -
4
PROJECT RISKS AND BENEFlTS
Project Related Issues and Risks
4.1         The most serious risk is the continued weakness of administrative
procedures within SIG especially, with the inclusion of the emergency cyclone relief
component, could potentially strain its implementation capacity. A second key risk is
the Government's difficult fiscal situation. This could lead to shortages of counterpart
funds during implementation and later weaken project sustainability. Another risk is
the possibility that the supply by other donors of volunteer teachers and project related
TA, although committed might not be forthcoming in a timely manner.
4.2        Tie above issues and risks were discussed during appraisal and
negotiations. The recent successful implementation of the Secondary Education Project
of about US$16.0 million equivalent (IDA and AIDAB), under already difficult
economic circumstances, demonstrates that the project will be within the Government's
capacity. Consultation between central and provincial agencies has occurred and
operaional procedures are being drafted to facilitate implementaion. The project will
also benefit from a good number of returning graduates, by short-term TA in the
management, procurement and civil works has been introduced during project
processing. The project will also be assisted by the implementation of a financial plan
which would help all concerned to keep track of required funds for project
ustainability.
Benefits
4.3         This first sector-wide project would be part of a coordinated donor effort
to address quality, access and equity issues in the sector. The secondary school
expansion would increase the secondary gross erwollment ratio from less than
10 percent to about 18 percent of the age cohort while increasing female participation.
The pilot village junior secondary day schools would contribute to: (a) reducing unit
costs, and (b) encouraging greater community participation in school maeance and
operation. The increased supply of educational materials, and better-trained principals,
inspectors and teachers would all contribute to raising the quality of educational
services, which in tun should help reduce dropout rates. The implementation of a
fimncial plan would assist SIG/MEEHRD to rationalize financial allocation, increase cost
recovery and sustain the programs. Management training would improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of programs at the central, provincial and school levels. Nurses'
training would alleviate the immediate shortages and contribute to better health services
throughout the nation.  The emergency support for school rehabilitation and
reconstruction would replace cyclone damaged and destroyed education facilities.



-42 -
AGREEMENTS REACIIHED AND RECOAMMENDATION
Genea Agrements
5.1         During negotiaons SIG gave assurances to IDA that they would:
(a) By October 15, 1993, and thereafter by October 15 of each year, the
Borrower shall carry out an overall anu  scond    eacher demand
and supply analysis aimed at identifying the subject teacher needs in
seoondary schools, and thereafter, take all such action, satisfactory to the
Association, to adequately address such teacher needs (para 2.12).
(b)   By October 15, 1994, and thereafter by October 15 of each year, the
Borrower shall undertake annual review of the agreed education
indicators (para. 2.16).
(e)   By June 30, 1994, the Borrower Shall takeal such acdon as shal be
necessay to adopt and, thereafter, implement replt and
distribution procedures for educational materias, satisfactory to the
Associaton (para. 2.22).
(d) By January 1, 1994, the Borrower shall: (i) appoint a representative
from the Borrower's Mistry of Health and Medical Services to the
SICHE Council; and (ii) create as a connittee of the SICHE Council a
nurse advisory committee with memberdsip and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and to review, on an anmual basis, the
Taining needs and skills of the different categories of nurses and
thereafter, advise SICHE accordingly (para. 2.24).
(e)   By May 1, 1994, the Borrower shall, or Shall cause MEHRD to, funish
to the Association, for its review and comments, proposed arrangment
for the carying out of the off-campus nurse taining program under the
Project, including lodging arrageme therefor, and thereafter, taking
into account the Association's comments, implement such aangeme
para 2.27).
(M)   By October 15, 1993, the Borrower shall furish to the Assocation, for
Its review and comments, a proposed staff development training program
for MEHRD and that SICHE will commence on January 15, 1994, and



-43 -
thereater, taki into account fte Association's comments, implement
such training program (para. 2.31).
(g) By October 15, 1993, and thereafter by October 15 of each year, the
Borrower shall carry out nnual budgetary and formula-based unit cost
reviews to strengthen the fmancing of Its education system, and,
tereaftr, exchange views with the Association on the findings and
recommendations thereof (para. 2.59).
(h)   The Borrower shall maintain the IPU headed by an experienced and
qualified officer, and vest it with such responsibilities, funds and
qualified staff, including an education planner, a principal accounta, n
implemer.tation officer and a procurement officer, as shall be required
to enable the IPU to undertake the overall coordination of te project
(para. 3.7).
(i)   The Borrower shall take aI such actions as necessary to employ th
following consultants for the following periods: (a) by November 1,
1993, maagement procurement consulas for an aggregate period of
about three staff years; and by Febnry 1, 1994, architectural
consultants for an aggregate period of about two staff years (para. 3.11).
3j)   By October 15, 1994, and thereafter by October 15 of eah year, te
Borrower shall carty out an annual review to assess project
implementation, and thereafter inform the Association of the resuls of
such review. It also agreed that it shall carry-out a mid-term revie  of
project implementation by October 15, 1996, and inform the Associaion
on the results of such review (para. 3.13).
5.2         As a condition of Credit disbursement, the Borrower shll: (a) submit
to IDA a lst of schools to be rehabilitated or reconstructed, including detailed cost
estimates for each school, based on selection crteria and construction design
satisfactory to IDA; and (b) evidence that all land and rights for all project schools has
been secured [para. 2.7, 2.42 and 3.20].
Recommendtion
5.3         Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is
a suitable basis for the Associaton to grat a Credit of SDR 12.2 million (US$16.9
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms for 40 years maturity to the Solomon Islands.



STRUCTURE OF 1:THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1992
SOLOMON ISLANDS
Univerity
Natioal oerinet Secondary Schools                        eazllo  I
9                         12~~~~~~~~~ 
Kqtwimut  private                      Private S codar  Schools
Junior Iecodary Schools.            CoUol a of           at
rOt I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
S   6       7      l      9 t    10      11     12       13     14        is                 16    17         to
P *  esao    eat (Unted  _umt)
UPU Da  lBal&l-2JI3



MNNISTRY OF EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
ORGANEZATION CHART
PE      SECuE    AINTARY * l
11119R 8CRCAY                                                           u         SEtCIII
CEIrF "CC0111                CIIEF  IDISMTIV    OFFiIC8k
ACCOUTS DIDSIOI                ADMINISTIRMIN DVSlON
L8ECONRY |    |I PRRY | SLECION &l I DIPLTTION                            N FORM          OI
GUANCE       & PLANN  UNT       DEVELOW O    EDUCO        TB UIT
NATIONAL LINEAR'I      CmUICmULUM        INSPECTATE |
DEVELOPSMEN UNIT
* lso include  Teacg Service Off ice
1. 0. VI National Secondary Sedool
ViMaPura Secodary School
&t IRD, Match, 1992.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



-46-                         ANNEX 3
KEY ISSUES IN EDUCATION AND TRANIMG
The main Issues in general education are:
A.          Primary Level
(a)   the poor quality of primary education with poor curricula, large
numbers of untrained teachers, lack of in-service training opportunities
for teachers, inadequate supply of materials, poor facilities; and
(b)   the need for further enrollment expansion to attain universal primary
education.
B.          Secondary Level
(a)   acute shortages of secondary educational opportunies, particulaly for
priary graduates and Form 3 leavers due to a lack of places;
(b)   an inequitable and ineffective stucture of secondary education with two
separate type: the National Secondary Schools which provide academic
training for five or six years of secondary education, and the Provincial
Secondary Schools which are designed to provide vocationally-oriented
secondary education;
(c)   a shortage of suitably qualified teachers for senior secondary and the
need to upgrade existing teachers primarily for mathematics, sciences,
English and business studies; and
(d)   shortages of textbooks, educational materials, and staff houses (to attract
teachers).
C.          Tertiay Level
(a)   30 percent of the education sector's resources are spent for SICHE for
about 2,000 trainees with little cost recovery; and
(b)   the school system does not provide an adequate number of students
suitably prepared to train as teachers, nurses and technicians.



-47-                          ANNEX3
D.           Sectoral Management
(a)   lack of guidelines from the central education ministry to ensure effecdve
implemention of policies;
(b)   iadequate coordination between central ministries concernd, and
provincial auithorities, which administer up to 70 percen of the social
services budgets;
(c)   limited and weak assessment procedures (examinatons); and
(d)   shortges of qualified and experienced persomnel with multiple
administrative responsibilities assumed by each senior official.
E.          Nurses Training
(a)   the overall shortage of nurses in the health care delivery system and the
lity to ensure that they have adequate grounding in community
based care.
F.          Financng Issues of Education
(a)   lack of a clear rationale or mechanisms for determining the required
level of central government support especially for secondary educao;
(b)   recognition that central govermnent funds cannot meet alI of the
resource requirements of primary and secondary education, resutng in
a need for increased emphasis on cost recovery;
(c)   inadequate mechanisms to ensure that central subsidies are used for
designated purposes at the provincial level;
(d)   unclear roles and responsibilities of central and provincial agencies
concerned in channelling central government funds for education; and
(e)   lack of autonomy and accountabilirty granted to provincial secondary
schools.



-48-                         ANNEX 4
INTEGRATED DONOR SUPPORT
1.         In November 1991 the Ministry of Education and Human Resource
Development (MEHRD), appealed to Donor Round Table for assistance to: (a) reduce
the student-place bottleneck ocacrring at the secondary level; (b) improve qualiy in
primary and secondary education; and (c) expand priority post-secondary programs at
the Solomon Islands College of Higher Education (SICHE). The response of the donors
was that a more integrated approach was needed, and unless the education base was
improved there would be only marginal benefits in these investments. As a result of
that position, MEHRD agreed to a series of studies in science education, curriculum
(primary and secondary), teacher training pre- and in-service, inspectorate, secondary
quality improvement and MEHRD training needs.  A World Bank consultant
oordinated the work with the results discussed at the second Donor Round Table in
May 1992. The following support was offered by the various donors.
2.         Primary Education activities would be directed towards upgrading of
quality:
(a)   New Zealand proposes to assist in the revision of the primary pre-service
eacher training program at School of Education and Cultural Studies at
SICHE through:
(i) the establishment of an institutional link with an agreed
University in New Zealand which would provide technical
assistance to the School of Education and Cultural Studies;
(ii) support for visits of lecturers to the sister institution and
short-term training visits of SICHE staff;
(ii) provision of funds to engage part-time relief for lecturers
involved in the revision of curriculum; and
(iv) ongoing provision of about 50-60 scholarships in New Zealad,
about 16 in regional insttions and about 50 national awards
about SICHE.
The project would improve the quality of the Pdmary Teacher Certificate
and allow an increase in the total mber of trainees, provide an altrnative approach
to the training of unqualified teachers (a special one-year program will be orgazed)
through a combination of campus and distance education and reduce the unit cost of



- 49 -                       ANNEX 4
trnng. Ihe project Is scbeduled over a three-year period, beginin in 1993, and is
expected to cost about NZ$200,000 per year.
New Zealand Is also assisdng the School of InduSt  Development with
a review of curriculumn for survey and drafting course
(b)   The United Kingdom (ODAIUK) proposes to asist with tie in-service
trning of unqualified primary teachrs and the review and preparion
of primary curricula and associated muteris ftrtgh the provision of:
(i) field tested technical aSsisce to work wfih untrained teachers
In school;
(ii) tchnical assistance for the revision of agreed components of the
primary curriculum (English and Community Studies); and
lii) some fuids for the production, printing and disttion of fte
revised curricula in English and Community Studies.
nTe project would hnprove the quarty of tehng, provide an
opporunty for unahied teachers, in the most remote provinces, to obtain in-service
assice and give untrained teachers access to the SICHE Certificate Program (special
one-year course intated with NZ assistance). It would also facilitae the revision and
puction of educational materials necessary to improve the quality of prim
education particulaly in the rual areas. The project i scheduled over a three period
begiming in 1993 and is estimated to cost US$2.0 million.
These acdvities will ensure that the core saijects are covered and hie
necesary educaonal materias distibuted to the schools. This cooperative approach
supprts evience that the availability of educatonal quality coibined with the
upgrading of teachers have the greatest impact on improving the quality of education
at the primary level.
ODA/UK is also assisting SICHE with staff support (8 T.A.) and
supports overseas training of the teaching staff. Instuional shing support will
also be given and the renovationlextension of SICHE boarding facilities funded.
Ongoing scholarship program (about 30 p.a.) will also be contined. Inputs comprise
about SBD 9 mfillion.
3.          Secondary Education activities, in the area of science education, would
be supported by AIDAB through the provision of:
(a)   tec  assisnce for the revision of the secondary science curriculum
for Forms 1-5 ensuring it fits the new mixed-mode curriculum;
(b)   support for urriclum related in-service  amning for all teachers of
science;



-I  -                        ANNEX 4
(c)   support for 1he refurbishing of a science room/laboratory in 7 curren
PSS which have not been scheduled for upgraing in tbis IDA project;
(d)   science equmen for use in al the Forms 1-3 and in Forms 4-5 in the
8 secondary schools being upgaded uider the IDA project;
(e)   science equpent for the 5 new villae junior secondary schools being
built under she IDA project;
(f)  technical assistance for science teacher education at SICHE inclding
assistance for course development for the pre-service programs (primny
and seconday), and for an intensive one-ster course for the
upgrafdng of existing secondary teachers in science subjects; and
(g)   refurbishing of laboratories at SICHE to facilitate the above mendoned
trainng programs.
The AIDAB project would improve the quafity of science in all the
schools ftrough curriculum revision, pre-service and in-service education for teachers
of science, te supply of equipment for Forms 1-3 and the improvemnt of facies in
seven secondary schools. This will be the first major national effort to include science
education as an integral part of education in the Solomon Islands. This project is
epected to begin in 1993 and will extend over a five year period with an estimated cost
of A$3,444,000 (about US$2.0 million).
AIDAB also supports wiin the School of Naural Resources at SICHE
and delivery of a certificate in tropical agricule (AS2.3 million), and staff assistance
(8 T.A.).
4.          Other support would include:
(a)   UNESCO-UNDP would supply technical assistance and materials for the
principal and muli-class teaching programs. UNDP/ILO has also
agreed to assit SICHE with curriculum review and program support in
the School of Industril Development (US$675,000).
(b)   The Sout Pacific Board of Examinaons and Assessments (SPBEA)
would provide assistae to train MEHRD staff, iSpectorate and
teachers in _assmet
The above asstance would give the school principals and teachers
relevant training which would improve their operational and management skills and
stengte the operation of schools. The SPBEA courses for Inspectors,  MEHRD
officials and some key teachers should upgrade the qualty of examinaons. The above
assistance will be for specialist services only and is estimated at about US$25,000 p.a.
for about tfree years from both UNESCO/UNDP and SPBEA.



-51-                              ANNEX4
S.            The rationalizatin of its education strategy through an inwgrated
approah has allowed the Solomon Islands to obtain much more support than initi
expected.  nbo project wpport from New Zealand, United Kingdom, Austala and
UNESCO/UNDP are all on a grant fancdng basi. Recur   costs generaed by all
the above iput would be inchded in the financial plan and an annual Joint SIGDonora
review would be feaur  as part of the project
BIATERAL C MARY FiNANCING La
Cdwao  of
dkuw                ADAD   ODAC   Now Zealad    UNESCO   UNDP    SPU
Civ work               X         X 
Psonal soWAMe          -         -          -                       -        -
Fuu                    x                                  -         -        -
quiat ad               X         -          -             -        X
educational muateal
Teonlolkalaniatance    X         X          X             -X 
T        aainirgLoca   X         X          X             X        X         X
a             x         x          x -         -           -
Totl nvaen Casts AS3.4  US$.OL    NZSA.*A    US$7              US$MA50N   US$S209
L   Full detals not ai    attis st a dp.
&   Pnrjet to st  in 1993 Ir a 5-yer period. Project to impo  science education aborries,
eq encuicuum and tacher education).
g  P*ot to sa in 13 fr a 4-year period. Projec to supt prim   educai.
id  Project to stat in 19  for a 3-ye areiod. Prje to supo prma  education 



-52-                            ANNEX 5
SECONDARY EDUCATION POLICY
1.          UnifiaIon of Secondary Schools. Govenment policy requires at action be
taken to provide a unified system of secondary education. ITis policy is to be supported by:
an active endorsemet of equality of opportunity of access to all secondary forms; provision
of a common curriculum across atl schools; the upgrading of teachers to improve quality of
instruction, particularly In senior forms; and the provision of comparable facilities, materials,
equipment, and school supplies.
2.          Types of Secondary Schools. Consistent with its policy to providi a planned
and equitably dis=tr d range of secondary education facilities, SIG has classified sools into
he types: (a) Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) offeing Forms 1-3 with boarding and day
atendanc, (to include 5 new village-based project schools); (b) Secondary Schools (SS)
offing forms 1-516 with boarding and day attendance (to include 8 upgraded project schools);
and (c) Senior Secondary Schools (SSS) to be developed over time to provide more economic
use of high cost facilities. Some of the existing secondary schools could be designated as SSS
to cater for Forms 4.6, only. Educationally, all schools will come within the unified system.
3.          Curricuum Reform. As a further mea   to faciitate educational equity
across all schools, the secondary education curriculum will be revised. The endorsed
curiculum will provide a balance between academic and applied learning, showing regard both
for emerging demands for knowledge and skills and for Solomon Islands culture.
4.          Teah  Appo       et and Tranfer. Careful management of the distribution
of teachers across all schools according to educational needs is an integral part of developing
and mantainn an equitable system of educadon Tis principle will be affected through the
centralization of secondary teacher placement through MEEIRD including mutual posfings and
transfers. Latter resulting in available subject expertise being applied more effectively. A
placement will be undertaken in consutation with relevant parties based on subject needs and
teaer contact hours of 28-30 per week.
S.          Subject Teaher      aon.  Particular attention wiUl be given to the
utniaion of teachers' subject specialities. In addition to supporfng this policy through initia
postings and staff transs to meet school needs, greater attention will be given to monoring
teacher demand and supply, which in turn will be reflected through in-country training and
overseas scholarships.
6.          Student Access to Schools. The expansion and upgrading of the seondary
system wiUl increase both the number of places and options for access. As more places
become available within each province and as educational oppormuities become more equitable
across all schools, there will be a greater incentive for more students to attend their 'local"
school. For reasons of identity and economy, particuar attention will be given to gradually



-53-                            ANNEX S
reducing suden travel beyond their own province. In due tme, when ascess s increased in
aul provinces, sdents enting Forms 1-3 will remain in their own provinces and stdent
movemen would only occur at Forms 4-6. Assessment procedures wil be reiewed duig
1993194 to accommodate the latter and develop a strategy by which higher cost boang
schools would cater prmarily for Form  4-6. A mber of the eistg boarding SS would
then become senior secondary schools.
7.          Non-Boarding Secondary Schools/Day Shtdents. MEHRD recognizes the
excessive costs associated with boarding schools and supports the development of day schools
where feasible based on MEHRD crteria. As a matter of policy, more students will be
encouraged to attend all schools as day students. Even those which are now solely boarin
facilities should accommodate day students.
8.          Teaching Lead. MEIiRD acknowledges that teacher work load or contact
hours are now low compared with most other countries. Accordingly, there wil be a phased
increase with a long-term target of 28-30 periods per week Cm a 40 period week). Adoption
of this policy wil lead to greater efficiencies in the system and also allow the proposed
expansion to be undertak  without any significant additional increase in the size of the
_t   force.
9.          Access and Retention of Females. A central requirement for effective
implementation of the equity in access princple is that girls have the same opportunie to
atnd secondary schools as boys. MEHRD is addressing the current inequides through the
project, by significantly increasing the ratio of boarding places and by provid   JSS for
students who can attend on a day basis.
10.         Ap           of Principals. In order to provide comparable leadership acro
the secondar system, MEHRD will apply the same set of criteria when selecting principals
for all schools. Ihis initiative will enhance the staus of PSSs and the new ISS, for which the
princpal will also have responsibility for the related primary school.
11.         Unit Cost Bases for School Fundig.  MEHRD has acknowledged the
appropriateness of rviewn the formula funding for schools based on per pupil unit costs.
By endorsing such a policy the Government will be in a posio to rationalize fundn across
all schools, irrespective of their location, classification or the nare of the education authorit
(government or non-government) and make the system more accountable. Futer, the
initative, mainly an annual review of the financial plan, wil conute tangibly to the
implementtion of the Government equity policy.
12.         Cost Reoovery. The Govenmet recognizes that it cannot contn  to meet
the growing costs of education and at the same time expand the system in response to
cMnity pressures. Adoption of this cost recovery policy by the Govermnent will allow
some of the costs of education to be sbared with parets and provide scope for the limited
available funds to support further growth in the education sector.
13.         School Acoumtabilty. School accountabiity is a key mechanism in Wpoving
the efficiency of the system. The joint application of the principles of unit allocation and cost
recovery will require each school to accept responsibility for balacing school income and
eire agais declared needs and to formulate priorities.



-54-                                 ANNEX 6
SECONDARY EDUCATION EXPANSION COMPONENT
Number of                                ToalW
1992   Proposed   1992   Propoed       1M     Prposed
BZxt  Socodwy Sohools:
Alipgeo      Malta          1-3        2        2       217       210
4-S        0        1         0        70         12       13
Cholul       Choiswl        1-3        2        2       190       210
4-S        0        1         0        70         12       13
1amol         sbel         1-3         2        3       192       315
4-S        0        1         0        70         10       18
Loomsb"      Temotu         1-3        3        3       310       315
4-S        1        1        51        70        21        18
Madua        Maluita        1-3        3        3       105       315
4-5        1        2        70       140         14      21
uabh         W et           1-3        4        3       402       31S
4-S        0        2         0       140         18      21
oaa             a           1-3        3        3       31S       31S
4-S        0        2         0       140        20       21
vat           adl           1-3        4        3       398       315
4-S        0        3         0       210        21       24
Subtol        1-3       a1 a 
4-5       1a
Nw Juior Seoaday Schools:
Gidinah    Maut             1-3        0        1         0       10         0        S
ihwlam       H.ni
Mlwopaty   1-3           0         1         0       105         0        5
SantaAnna   Makira          1-3        0        1         0       105         0        5
Gino         Wedern         1-3        0        2         0       210         0       10
Ngvia        (3uad          1-3        0        2         0       210         0       10
Subota        1-3        Q                  0       m            2       a
Tetl          1-3       23       29      2129      304S
4-S        a       a2       m21



TEACHER EDUCATION NEEDS: SlUBEClS X STRATEGIES - PRIORITIES 1993-1998
(Based on Analysis of Subject Teacher Ren, 1992)
SteoyA                                          strrta"C
tunIcs. hare.z 
5313 As
DuIMee.44  Studio.     alUdigitadoublaU  Law pririfty                     I only                                    Bubproit  b priority(S)  1-i per you         308
or 14 p.r y"r                                                         MIc      er.)                                                       eyuanu  base
f ab                  Limit intake            Lou priority                2 only      h          priity              11b pririty (40         2-S pet year   CD CIS?C113
math                  Lomo                        Wority                  2 only            a   pirt                 1gb  priorty ()         2.S per year       C8C     l
Sie1ce                10435 per year          Iijb prioity ouUtil         I                                         z pr  gtority(           2-1 per year        elate to AMU
aum project1 lap*ace                          (uvalelo                Iteimcors
Socil            eas      o   intk  dmuble  Low priority                     only           low priority In ry l1gb priority (IS)            1-2 pr yer         CWISI
mjr 214 per year                                                       f werall auppv                                                      y ltletaI  based
de_n poitio
f_riSultme            WA,                     L1 prerity                             it    tow priority la vi       SedIM priority ()        12 per yr          Ccc
Chriti  an Euation    manr only               Lou priotrit                 01-a             Low priority            Viodium priorit  (B)     Ocainl              TiIh
U Sience              Ltit                    Lw priority                 2 only            L- pdrioty              Medium priority (S)      14 per wyr           12I
Induotre Aot"         Limit intake            iu priorty                  o only            Lw priority             Medium priority (9)      12 PoM year
- C,
Creativ  Acts         Maj  or      pririLty                               nne}                       itdi  priority (2)                      Oceb                             t bsed
Phsol Eduction    Maijrs 314 prity                                        n                                         Ndim pririty (0)         Ofctpil . ?          iOd    OC based
(ilepplioable)                                     in-ser~~~104vice
met"es   Booed anVormbo w aorn Seoweday Mecbor eman  adSupply, Table Ls and AsAsh I.
*ohm la_bcaobfto utu to vooher               in the an ift fAbo would be etligible* to take m  chours.
I



-56-                                   ANNEX 8
SELECTED PROJECT INDICATORS 1/
Item                                    1992 Base           1999 Taret     _  Cu       L-
A. Students                        -ML   F 1             M    F.L    11    M     1      Al
Al. Enroilnmst
Non-poject Secondary (SS)     1,872   949    34   1,80  1,020   36
Non-project Junior SS (JSS)   1,003   664    40   1,000   810   45
8 Project SS                  1,424   826    37   1,770  1,450   45
S Project JSS                    0     0      0     405   330   45
AB Secodary Schools          4,299 2,439    36   49S  3,610   42
ffF                  SP                 ffF
A2. Day/Boading                   ICay Boud  148d   .av- Bgd AREA       d        Ru Bz4L  Had
Non-proJect Soondary (SS)     100 2,721    32      120  2,700   35
Non-proect Juidor SS (JSS)      15 1,6S2    28      110  1,700   35
8 Poect SS                     315 1,935    30      545  2,675   45
5 Project JSS                    0     0      0     735      0     0
AD Sewondary Schools           430 6,308    30   1,510  7,075
A3. Examinaton *pwl3 aim
Staunda 6
Form 3
Form S
A4. Tansit  riates (%)
Stbdard 6/Form  1                     25                   40
Formn 3/Fom 4                         30
Form SISICHE
Form S/Form 6
AS. Emroimait as % of ag grwup:
AD seodary schools                    11
B. Teacher8
Bi. Natnal/xpatriatetZF
Non-projet Seconday(S)                1741           1 ( 8 8 )
Noa-proectluniorSSQISS)           i /100/                       I   I   /
8 Pri.ect SS                    I   /128/            1                              I 1
S Poect JSS                               I   I 0               I   I   I
AUlSecondary Scools          310/ 921 4 02               I   I                      I
I/ Data to be cowpleed during pioject iple ntation by IPU nd updaed annuafy.



-57-                                    ANNEX 8
1992 Bast             1999 Ta"-2uA
B2. Averag Teahing Load (Periods/Week)
Non-project Sconday (SS)            17                        28
Nou-project Julior SS (8ss)         20                     28-30
8 Proect SS                      18-20                     28-30
S Project JSS                        0                        30
AD Secondary Schols                 18                        28
B3. Teachers' qualifications:
Nationals witb: degtees             54
undergraduate diplomas 222
other                  31
p tth: degree            67
diploms              18
other
B4. Amal tacher attition rate
Pm    teachers                     5%                        3%
Seconduy  ahers                    4%                        2%
C. Scol
Cl. Non-teaching Staff:
Non-project Schools
13 Project Schools
C2. Averg Number of Texs per Student
Form 1-3
Foms -S
C3. Unit Cost per Student
Non-projct Seconday (SS)
Nonproject Junior SS (JSS)
8 Pro!ject SS
S Project JSS (nonbo
Al Secondary Schools (aveng)
C4. Claomslspedalized labs per school       CR/LAB               CR/IAB             CRLAB
Nonprojc Secondary (SS)                    I                    /
Non-project Jiuior SS18)                   /                    I(I
8 Prect SS                                 1                                       I
S Prject 188                               I                    I 
AM Seondary Schoob                         I                    I
CS. Number of Classes (F. 1-3/P.4S)         ,13/p.4S            F.1-3/.4-5           ,    ,
Non-proct Secondar (SS)                  53130                53130
Non-ajet Junior SS (JSS)                 4714                 4814
8 Project SS                             66/6                 66/26
S Poect 1SS                               0/0                 21/0
AU Seowndy Scol                         166140               188160



- 58 -                                   ANNEX 8
D. Teacher Devdopment          1993        1994      1995     199C      1997      1998      1999
Dl. Pr-sevice (Planned/actual)               AA                F         VA        V         VA
SICHE Diploma            65/         651       65/        65/       651       651       65/
SICHE Advanced Diploma  -            2S/       25/        25/       2SI       25/       251
Overas Diploma            3/
Overas Dogr              15/
Overam Post-degree
D2. In-semrice (Planed/actual)
Prmay Headhaser         250/        250/ 
Primay techers          100/        100/      100/        100/      100/
Sconday teachers
Annul Conferce
Subject I/S Participation
NURSE TRAINING INDICATORS:
1992           1999          Anuid Review
Data Base        Taget              199
1. Enrollment (SICHE):
Certificate in Nursing:
- Capacty:                                   75            150
- lst year                                   30             50
- Oput                                       25             45
Poet Basic Cert (Midwifery)                   0             15
2. SICHE Staffing
- Prof Establshment                          14             20
- OndstrOW&                                  12             20
- Planned/actual inserv  aining               /                                   /
3. NURSE EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (MHMS)
- Employed
Total                                    475            586
Goveent                                  407             na
- Vacie
Ovea                                      32              0
Gov _mnen                                 28              0
-Nse Graduate Labor
Mak  Experience
Peren placed:-
2months > God                             100            100



-59-                           ANNEX9
STRUCTURE OF MIED MODE CURRICULUM
Prindples:
*     To give a balanced education, secondary students continue to study a fun
range of subjects in Fonrs 1 to S.
*     Generally, the number of periods at each form per subject would be the
same.
*     That, as in the present Solomon Isads School Certificate examin s,
Englsh, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies would be examinable as
mandatory core subjects, other subjects wud be elective.
X     An allocation of forty academic periods per week with each being 40
mines in length as oudined in the following table.



-60-                               ANNEX 9
AiOcation of Perinds
Subjec                                                  Number of Periods
Busines Studies                                             4
Chrstian Eduation                                           20
Eiglish                                                     6
Mathma.cs                                                   6
Science                                                    S5
Soi St"dies                                                 S
Arultue                                                     4
dUstria ArtsHom   Economics                                 4 + (2-4r
Crave Ats                                                   2
Physical Education                                          2
Tota 4l                                                     + (2-4
*Curmntly in Forms 4-5, Chdsian Education is replaced by New lestament Shtuies which is
fi   y  allocated 4 periods and in some schools is a mandatory examinable subject.
Chnstian Education is theefore held by mny to be a key siect, and schools may want to
increase the allocation to more than 2 periods. MBHRD might suggs options fori do his,
includig a    ible reallocation of penods after a more thoough review of the neeO  o
cs, Science ad Aricuu. Oher opI are to increase the m              ds in the week by
use of a 6day week: (eah academic week is a6-tsy cycle, giving up to 4S pedods rather than
40 per wee  with the beginning of esa acadmi week woe daylater ea we), or the
gof additnal clsses afer th end of the adamic day.
The umbe of periods alocated to Science will depend upon the reiw of scice educat
h sciene prqect team considea  5 periods adequate for Science to be taught as an
m en    subject. However, me scienm may aldy be tauht in Agriclt, so
the combined aiocation of 9 periods to dte two subjects might be too muand sould be
reconsdrd  in the light of ahsequent subect curriculum rviews.
Th allocation of 4 periods to Industial A Home Economics inside the fornml academic day
and 2-4 outside (posibly in tho afteroon) allows MEEIRD to fiuter encourage those schools
which want to teh Home Economics and Ihdusti   Arts to boys and gids in common to do
so. Of course, if they do then tho allocation of 4 periods within the fonma time-table would
pobably not be enouh. However the pactial aspects of Hom  EconomicF nd Indusal
Ats coiud b desig  to fit into aftenoon activities of the sho. Tberefone, one posble
soltioan to the scacity of time in th forma ttab  is to povide the equivaliet of 2-4
peiods of pcial inatsuction a week in these subjects as pt of work and arden activity.
This pr    re also has the educational beefit of helping   aw the fonral academic and
e    Gtracur r activities of student and thereby strengathng both. As an educatoa
principle, it equally applhes to Agiculture, Science and Creativ
Sourc Davis Report, p. 23.



EDUCATION MAlTERIlS
RMARY PRODUCTION BUDGEr (US$)
Tear              Subject            1994                  1995                  1996                  1997              1998           Totals
Prep              Baths
01                Baths            29,386
02                maths            23,208
G3                Bathe                                 23,208
G4                Bathe                                 23,310
aS                Baths                                                        23,208
06                Bathe                                                        23,310
Prep              Language         60,580
01                longuage         70,068
02                Longuage                              85,563
G3                LaDguage                              99,147
04                Laguage                                                       99,147
aS                Language                                                      39,590
G6                LaDguage                                                      39,590
Teacher Guides   Book P-2                                                                             3,993 HKHDD
Teacher Guldes   Book 3-6                                                                                               3,993 ivEUR
03                Co= sStudies
04                Com Studies                                                                        128,191
0S                Cm Studies
G6                Oma Studies
03                ScieucelAgr
04                ScienceSg /                                                                                          128,191
GS                Sciencele r
06                science/Agr
NMi  Packages    6,826                  6,826                 6,826                 6,826             6,826
Totgl                             190.068               23E.044                224.845              139.010           139.010         930.987



-62                         ANNEX 11
SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTONS OF
EDUCAIIONAL MATEIUAlS
1.         Ihe policy for the supply of educational material was clarified durig
appr     and it was agreed that the promemnt process for educational materia
would be re-cenalied. It would result in the pret educational material gnt of
about SBD 15.00 per student being re-centralized for cental stock p nt.
Primary Schook
2.          The grant or annal allocation, for books, chalk, educational materials
etc. woud be cenrlly conollet to reduce purchasing costs, improve efficiency and
increase the availabily of materias and textbooks in primary schools. Basic principles
and procedures would be as follows:
(a)   MEID  would re-estblish a shool order form listing txtbook and
necessary educational materials (with prices). The school would be
advised of is total allocation (unit allocadon per grade x number of
students per grade). Each school would control its own allocation
although the fund would be red at the center to filitte bulk
prourement. On that basis each school would identify its anticipated
needs for the following year based on the allocation;
(b)   To ensure effective response to needs, each school would be asked to
prepare a list of all exisdng books and mateals available for each grade
and sineuly to identify shortages in comparison with the list of
necesay books and equipment prepared by the MEHRD  primary
section under the coordination of CDC) in consultaion with the
provii authoriies. Thus, priority subjects (anguage and mathematics
and teacher guides in the other subjects) at the exitn  policy raio of
one copy for every two stdents would be covered first (Annex 10).
Needs are likely to exceed the resources available and would have to be
supplemented by parents and communities. In addition, the process
would be dependent upon the availability of a stock of imported books
in a central warehouse together with materias being produced by CDC.
Prcremen should only be re-ntized if SIG and MEHRD can in
fact establish a central stock and if MEHRD is allowed to collec and
retain additional school or pdvae funds to replenish the stock; and



-63-                        ANNEX 1
(c)   Once the priority subjects were covered, schools could increase their
allotment to other subjects and to reference books (based on a MEHRD
supply plan). Since the allocation is unlikely to satisfy school needs, a
second form indicating the school's or province's individual request(s)
could be attached. Upon receipt of the funds, which would be placed in
a specal bank account under the control of MEHRD, such additional
purchase (usually from fees, parent contribution and other sources) could
be included as part of the national bulk order. Mhis would facilitate the
task of parental or school groups who raise funds to increase the
availability of educational materis in the schools.
3.          The main procurement process or steps that would be used for primary
school materials are as follows:
(a)   Annually in June, MIEHRD would forward to the schools the order forms
asking each school to indicate the quantities reeded (based on SIG
allocations and for individual orders);
(b)   About July, the school response/order would be forwarded to the
provincial offices for consolidation. The province would send the
consolidated table to MEHRD including the individual school's requests
to allow packaging and direct distribution to each school;
(c)   Tabulated provincial lists would be received by mid-August amually.
MEHRD would consolidate the orders and contact book and material
suppliers to obtain proforma invoices. Books in small quantities could
also be reprinted by the CDC or by private printing firms following a
tender;
(d)   About Septmber, MEHRD would process the orders through the
Government Supply Office (GSO) on the basis of the proforma invoices
or tenders;
(e)   All orders would be processed by mid-October and delivery would occur
during Januazy and February annually;
(f)   The textbooks would be prepackaged for each school and not opened at
the provincial level (a copy of invoice would be given to each province
so it could verify receipt during administrative visits). Other materials
(chalk, paper etc.) would be packaged and organized as desired by each
province. The GSO would have to supply MEHRD with adequate
storage and warehouse space and packaging to ensure the timely
execution of the deliveries. GSO under the guidance of MEHRD will
manage the warehouse constructed under the Third Education and
Training Project to hstock education books and educational materials and
in that vein make all efforts to respond to provincial and school orders
throughout the year.



- 64-                       ANNEX 11
(g)   Each year a commtee comprising the Prncpal Education Officer (PEO)
Prmary (cordna ),  a provincial    esentative, CDC  subject
spialts/primary offices, a teacher representative and a GSO
reprentative would update the list of materials and boob. MEHRD in
consultation with MOFEP, would determine if the fn     allocation
would remain unagd and what peentage would have to be covered
thrugh cost recovey/fees etc. arriving at an amount that would allow
a susinable supply of books and educational materials;
(h) To facilitate the above operation, SIG would establish under the
management of MEHRD a special bank account where funds receive
ftom the schools and provinces would be deposited. The release of tese
fuds would require signatures from the MEHRD and MOFEP; and
()   The funds from the IDA Credit would be used to iniathe fir stock.
Annual Goverment contributions and cost recovery funds would then be
used to replenish the supply in the long-term.
Secdary Schoob
4.          In the case of secondary schools the purchase of matedals would be
undertakn by each shool. The present practice of each sudent paying for his or her
own books or having the schools buy all the books and chargin each student a book
user fee equivalent to about 1/4 of the cost of the books (to allow rwurchase or
eplacem   every 4 to 5 years) would be formalized. SIG would continue to allow this
actvity to be self-fmanced. The IMA project would assist with the origial stock of
books. The proce that would be used for secondary schools would be as follows:
(a)   On the basi of MEHRD/CDC lists/order forms, school would prepare
a list of needs about August each year;
(b)   lit  of needs would be sent annually to MEHRD (Secondary PEO)
about September and collated. By October, book suppliers, CDC or
private prin  would be contracted using proforma invoices for
purchase or prnting of the books;
(c) Contracts for purchase or reprint would be finalized during October/
November annually wih delivery, in individual school packges,
undertaken from Januy to February yearly;
(d) The funds for textbooks and equipment would be handled by each
secondary school through a separate bank account which would be
sadied annuay by the provincial finance unit. A copy of the audit
would have to be received by the MEHD by August each year to
permit the following year's al on; and



-65 -                       ANNEX 11
(e)  Mlm proement of oter educational materis (cluding equipment and
firnitu) would be handled by the schools individutilly.
5.          SIG and MEHRD have indicated that the GSO is agable to thes
procedues and has the capaciy to:  (a) undetake  the acquisition of book and
educational maotrs stc; and (b) assist MER  with the ordeing, receipt, sorting,
packging and distbution of materials directly to the schools. It Is expet  that GSO
would dharge a small fee for the . , e (to be agreed agreed on an anmua basi). This
is satisfactory.
6.          To facilite the effective response to school needs CDC, which produces
a high percentge of the primary and some secondary materials, would in addition to
charging actua production costs for its materas ensure sufficient cost recovery to
enable it to reprnt annually the needed textboks, teacher guides and supple y
books and meras. CDC would be allowed to retain funds received from the sale of
its maerials and use such funds for ongoing producton to allow sustnability of
educational maeis wit  the schools. An account under the control of MEID
/MOFEP and audted by the Accountant Geneal would be established for that purpose.
7.          SIG/MSEHRD have agreed to Implement cost recovery measures and to
implent the abov replenishment policies to sustain an aual supply of educational
materials.



-6-ANE1
h                         llv~~~I
] v s s . 
)~~~~  j _
:3nt      1                   I* Xl  
I'    1l8                    
X  X~ .  1               a "g|  



-67 -                           ANNEX U
NURSES ADVISORY COMMIrtEE
1.          Ihe Committee, to beestablishedjoindyby the Permanent Secretary, )AHMS, and
the Director, SICHE, would comprise the Under-Secretary of Health Care, MHMS (charpe );
Chief Nursing Officer, MHMS; Medical Superintendent of Central Hospital, MHMS; Director,
SICHE; Head, School of Nursing, SICHE; and Director, IPU, Ministry of Educaton. Mhe
committee would be empowered to co-opt other members at its discretion.
2.          The inter-ministry Committee would provide a forum for discussion of the ove
operatios and focus of the School of Nursing and Health Sciences at SICHE and provide a formd
link with the Solomon Islands Public Health and Medical system. Acting malsy in an advisory
and review capacity, the Committee would, in the contex of the project:
(a) review the curriculum and implementation of the nurses training component;
(b)   review cross-ministry and insttional issues which may aise;
(c)   make recommendations to the appropriate authorities about the resolution of ny
issues or problems requiring int-deparment cooperation;
(d) review manpower policies which effect nurses training, qualitatively and
quantitatively;
(e)   review and make recommendations about proposals resulting from conslting
services provided to the School of Nursing and Health Sciences;
(t)   provide liaison with the provincial departments of health on matters related to
nurses traing in provincial facilities and make recommendations about the
resolution of any issues which may arise in relation to this function;
(g)   when, and as necessary, review budget allocations associatd with this component
and, make recommendatins about the reallocation of resources If this becomes
necessary; and
(O)   periodicaly review the functioning of the communty-based training program for
nurses at area health centes and rural health clinics and make recommendatis
as necessary.
3.          Ihe Committee will meet three times yearly or more often as the need may aise
and at the discredon of the chrpeson. The committee wil appoint a secretary to keep minutes
of the mee_tp. The mimes of meetings wi be submitted, inter alia, to the IPU wihin sven
days from the time of the meeting and will be made available to the Bank during supervi
minssions.



-68-                          ANNEX 14
SICEE, OFF-CAMPUS AND NURSES FACILITIES
FxDM TRAMM Sins FOR NURE
The flowig stes for comunmty4ased training have been selected:
MAa:        2-3 students. There Is new    dation at the Rural Development
Center. It is proposed that SICHE negotiate wihi the Mmistry of
Agriculture to rent a staff house on a permanent basis.
Totonp:    2 students. A bush house is avaiable now but wi  need to be replaced
during the project.
Aod:        4 second and tird year students and up to 14 first year stde  at one time.
Costruction of two houses to acmmodae up to 18 students and 1
supervor will require the appvl of the Area Council.
VIsale:     2 students. Renovaton of a room within the clinic.
:Mithoba:  2 studens. Proviion of a semi-permanent house.
Fauabu:     2-4 students depeing on supervisory staff. Formal agreement needs to be
reached with the Church of Meanesia. Pwvision of a semi pec_
house.
bta'9n.:   2 sdents. Provisin of a semipermanent house.
Malu'u:     4 students at clinic. Semi-permanent house to be built at clinic. If
redevelopment of general site means that there is no space for the house
there is an alternative site on MHMS land.
Kwaibeu:  2 students. Provision of a semiperman   house. Formal agreement needs
to be reached with the Seventh Day Adventist authorities.
Takwa:      2 stdents. Provison of a semi-pmanent house. Formal agreement needs
to be reached with the Roman Catholic authorities.
Gwanotlob: 2 students. Provision of a semi-pennanent house.
AiiM:       4 sxtun, 2 to be atahed to a mursing seevice and 2 at the Adki clinic.
A ommedgion at Rilu-ufi Hospital with studes on clinical atachm.
Summary:   The project will supply 10 semi-permanent houses, renovate flities at one
site and assist with rent costs at one site.



-69-                          ANNEX 15
STAFF DEVE1LOPENT TRAINING
MAERD AND PROVINCIAL EDUCATION OFFICERS
IN-COUNTRY TRANING
TalWnems' DMv la
Comoonent                          1993                        1996    Total
1. Senior Managers/PEOS:
a. Budget, fiance
monlaoring, eauadon              10       10       10               30
b. Work pnlng,
supeio  ec                      10        20                        30
c. Team building,
human relations                           10       10       10      30
d. Educational planing                               10                10
e. Filing management                         S
2. Skill Traing:
a. Wridng skills                   3         6        6        3       18
b. Basic accountn                            3        6                9
c. Budget planing                  3         3                         6
3. Computer Training:
a. Inroduction                     4         2                         6
b. WordPerfect (2 units)           6        12                         18
c. Database Management                       3        3                6
d. Lotus                                     3        3                6
4. Specialized Training:
a. CDC Wordproceing                9         9                         18
b. Pri shop mannance               3         3                          6
c. Libraia                                   3                         3
d. Facilities maintenance          3         3        3        3       12
5. Conferences:
a. MEBRD/Provincial                5         5                         10
b. Asement, SPBEA                  5         5                         10
c. PrlmaryHs, UNESCO               10       10                         20
Totl                           n71       l S              16      25
Souce: MEHRD, November 12, 1992
la   Proposed mnmber of trainers' days to include   n and delivery of tg    by
on or more trainers to gmups of about 10



- 70-                         ANNEX16
SUMMARY OF OVERSEAS FELOWSSIS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PROJECr MANAGEMENT La
Consultantellow DP
Component                         Yr I   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5    Tota
A. Overseas Fellowships:
1. Short-term atachments
a. Project finmcing              -      30      -      -     -      30
b. Project managemen            30        -     -      -      -     30
c. Chief inspector               -      30      -             -     30
d. Director, CDC                30        -     -      -      -     30
e. Warehousing                  45        -     -      -      -     45
f. Teacher education (30x2)     60        -     --                  60
Subtoa                      62Q
2. Long-term
a. Educational planning          -      120  365    240       -    725
b. Nurse 1:ducators            900    1,440  540    720       -  3,600
Subtotal                  LQ    Li.6    2D9    26Q            4.55
B. Technical Assistance:
1. Inspectors course writing
delivery (24)                   30      130   20       -      -    180
2. CDC policy (2)                  30       30      -      -     -      60
3. Production specalist            30       30      -      -     -      60
4. Teacher educator                180        -     -      -     -    180
S. Curriculum development
coordination                   180     360  360    180       -  1,080
6. Warehouse specialist            30         -     -      -     -      30
7. Nurses' Curriculum              160      40    40      40    40    320
Subtotal                     Q             420     ZQ    4Q    L0
C. Project Management:
1. Technicl/physical
coordination                     -     365  365        -      -    730
2. Site surveys                    180        -     -      -     -    180
3. Managementlprocurement
coordinaion (14)               120     360  360    120    60   1,020
4. Policy handbook                 30       30      -      -     -      60
Subtot                30                   m    miQ  (I.
2200                       L2              L30  I= s           L7s
a   IDIA should be considered as the donor of last resort Whenever possible, overse
speaists should be finmced from bilaterl grant aid.
oe teaher educator curriculum review will be financed through the Japan Grant
Th  tehnical/physical cordination should prefrably be financed/recruited from
volunteer organizaions at lower cost on a long-term basis.
TORs for all posts are elaborated in the Working Papers.



-71-                         ANNEX 17
FNANCING PLAN FOR EDUCATION
F0MLuAS FOR DETERMIN   UNr REcuRDu?r ConS
Pimary Education
1.          The annual identified needs In primaty education are lsted below:
Needs and Costs                                   Grades
(per pupil)                             1-3                4- 6
SBD
Class Suppies La                           2                   3
Textbooks 1                                7                  12
Consumables                              22                   38
Subtoa                                31                   S3
Maintmnce                                40                   40
Total                                 mn 
Source: Estimates by the Primary Division of the MEIRD and the Mision In 1992.
LS Incd  calkc, paper, and other supplies estmated per classroom and unit costs
obtained assuming 35 pupils per class.
1  Assmes one book to be shared between two chilren and to be replaced every
three years.
2.          RequfMet  The ammal unit recrent cost required for primary
educaon has been calculotd by MEHRD using the fllowing forula, and is
mmmarzed in a table below.



-72 -                        ANNEX 17
alal + b/(n*y) + c + m/N=UC
Where:      a  = cost of class supplies per class per year
al = average class size (e.g. 35)
b  = costs ofone fil set oftextbooks
n  = m  bers of students sharbqg a set of textbooks In chs (e.g. 2)
y     numnbers of yeas books are used before replenishment(e.g. 3)
c  = cost of consumables per student per year
m     mantenance cost per school per year
N = average number of students per school
UC = unit cost per student per year
3.          Once MEHRD, following the necessary consultation, has determined the
unit cost (UC), it then advises MOFEP using the formula O) below and after the
necessary consutaton, MOFEP allocaes funds on dhe basis of formula (di) below:
Formula ()    UC * E =R   (p + o) = PA
Formula (ii)   PA * E = AA
Whe&e:
UC = unitcost
B   = Enrohlent (E/i +E/2+E/3+EU4+EB5+E16 E) grades 1-6
R  = requiremnt
p   = paental contrbluon
o  - other funding or contribution(s)
PA = proposed allocation per school
AA = acul allocation per school
4.          Acual Resources Avaable. Ihese figures are to be contraed with a
unit subsidy from the central government of about SBD 14 per cild in 1991 (SBD 15
planned for 1992). Provincial govermments have tended to tranfer less to primary
sdhoot   prvied by the ctral budget The acu  level of paeal contributio
could not be estimated, maniny because ftese are paid as infomal contributions rather
than official fees."
5.          Unit Cost Formula for Central Fiacing. Cenr grants to provinces
should be determined by multiplying the estmated unit cost per pupil by the expected
enrollments. As a second best estimate, the actuad enrollments from the year before
could be used. The present level of unit subsidies per student of SBD 15 would be
maintained i real terms, but would cover, as much as possible, of the textbooks and
classroom supples with very little, if any, for consumables. Ie aurrent level of
central fiancing can oniy cover 15-20 percent of the total requrements, and it is
mportant to target central subsidies to essential quality inputs. In practical terms,
schools would receive an entitm   to order  xtbooks, classroom supplies, and
consumables from the Iht supplied by the MEHRD. Schools would be expeced to pay
from their own resources for dte bulk of heir consumables.



- 73-                       ANNEX 17
6.          Since many school supply costs are for items that are relatively
insensidve to the size of schools, the same unit cost formula may be applied to ali
schools. Similarly, modifications to account for different levels of stude   may
complicate the calclation more than provide any benefit. lhe varistion in distances
would be Inplicity cross-subsidized though the ME   application of a sinsle set of
prices to all schools. MEHRD would contie the practice of only covering distribution
costs to the provincial capitals and the province and schools would continue to be
responsible for local costs.
Secondary Education
7.          Requimnt.  Te foliowing table lists curnt annual unit cost
quis for secondary education, which is incomplete owing to a lack of data on
needed materials, supplies and their prices. Thes would need to be filled in, as they
become available from the CDC and the secondary division in MEHRD.
Needs and costs            Forms 1oo 3                Forms 4 to 6
(per pupil)            Day        Boarding       Day         Boarding
Educational supplies         50         50             SO          50
Textbooks La            400-450    400-450         400-450    400-450
Science equipment        40- 50      40- 50         50-70      5S-70
Consumables O               125        125            140         140
subtotal              6154675    61S67           690-760    690-760
MaldtSnancefL             55-80        100          55-80         100
Boang expenes               -          400            -           400
Housing expenses           -           300            -           300
Subtotal               55- 80        go00         55-          800
Total                 C7bM   1.41St.47S          Z412 IA-14     60
Source: Mision estmates.
La Estimated book costs in SBD: mathematics 75, science 140, business sudies 50,
English 90, agriculte 40, industial art 80, physical education 30.
L Estimated using 1991 equipment estimates in PNG for lower secondary schools,
and assuming 20% repleismet needs. One lab to service 200-350 sudes.
/c Includes pen, pencils, exercise bools, paper, prtor sets and shnilar
cnsumbles.
Ld Estimated as 1% of unit constucdon costs for one or two JSSs and two or more
stream boarding schools.



-74 -                       ANNEX 17
B.         Acdal Central Subsidies. These costs are to be contrasted witi centra
unit subsidies and fees planned in 1992. Some provincial governms claim to have
provided additional resources but no details were obtained, thus that line has been left
blank in the table below.
NSS       NSSL&      PSS      Honiara      Goal
SBD
Central Government    780        350        345         55         350
Provincial gov't       -           -                     -           -
Parental contribution    250    350-770    150-250     270     350-770
Tota                "a    ZML1.120    ZEM0                     M ZLz12
La Church NSSs.
9.         Unit Cost Formula. Untl now, te central grants to individual school
have also covered all costs including boarding related costs. Given that the unit subsidy
of SBD 350 would only cover 30-50 petcent of the actua costs in fte case of boarding
shoos (para. 7), the central subsidy would be targeted to cover the essential supplies
and textbooks as a priority. The following formulae would determine the levels of
subsidie to individual shools:
Formula
S        _mmsd       Mainwance  Bori    Univt
day            (d * s)     +   (d *m)  +   (-)       DUC
boarding        (b * s)    +   (b *ml) +  (b *B)   BUC
With  e latter two formulae identifying day and boarting unit costs and resultng in the
folbwing scool detemition of costs:
(DUC * d) + (BUC * d) = SC
The school via the provinces then submit the details to MEHRD for review and they
in tn, following furter consultation with the provincial authorities, would dete mine
what pacente of the actual costs could be covered by SIG's unit cost allocation taking
ino considerion cost recovery measures such as parental contributions and other
ces of revenue. Based on that analysis and on an agreed unit cost MEHRD would
submit a budgetary request to MOFEP based on the following:
A school cost Is: a (forms 1-3 + forms 4-6) * (BUC+DUC)= A



-75-                        ANNEX 17
Whr:
a    = number of studen
b    - number of boarding studen
B    = boarding costs
d    = number of day sudents
8    = unit cost for sdhools supplies an textbooks
m       unit cost for main ce of day schools
ml  -unit cost for manance of boardi  schools
EUC -boarding student unit cost
DUC = day student unit cost
SC   = total school needs
UC   = unit cost
A    = Allocation
While s and m should refle  as closely a piunible, the real unit wo, the boadin
subsidy per stdent would only paly covx the real costs. Under ths scheme, day
scools could receive all of their operatonal costs as subsidies frm the government.
Boading costs as well as travel costs, on the other hand would expect to be almost
wtally paid for by parental fes. Ihis might lead to different fees for day stu    and
boarders, and Is likely to encourage more day sudets. The goal would be to maintain
the amn    unit subsidy at about SBD 350 per boarding sent and SBD  50 per day
studenL
Planed Centra Unit Subsidy per Bowding Pac ad EsImated Leves of Fs
(subsidy/fee)
1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1994      l99
Subsidy Pee Subsidy PFe Subsdy PFe Subsidy PFee Subsdy Fe Subsidy Fee Subsidy Po
NSSs      700 250  620        540       460       380        350       350  00-
NSSs      350 350- 350   *350   *350   *350   *350   *3S0  350-
PSS      350  150- 350       350       350       350        350       350 350-
* To be determined.
10.         Different tspoation costs owing to distae would be imrlicitly
djuted to arrive at unified prices for all schools for supplies and teiooks.
Differen   treatent of schools of diffm size would be introduced through a more
detiled analysis of costs, aspecially maWnten , which is likely to vary depending on
scale. Cos diffentials owing to level of education cold be In the fure explcily
ajusted annually tirough the application of unit costs for school supplies and
texbooks.



-76-                         ANNEX18
FINANCING PLAN
ROLS AND RIsoNsInus oF RzizvAwr AGENcuas/OmcLus
1.          Ihe following oncepts would govern the finnig plani:
(a)   MBEHRD to function as a technical agency for establshing policies for
resource allocation of central fimds for education.
(b)   Provincial govemen to be responsible for ensuring effective prov -ion
of educatal services to respective provinces fthugh monitorng  d
evaluation, and allocation of provincial resources.
(c)   Secondary schools to be responsible for planming and administraion of
fiuds allocated to them, subject to supervision by tieir boards of
managmn  which should have repreves  from  provincial
government and the parents.
2.          MEID
(a)   formulating inestment plans for new school places.
(b)   ogWniz  centralized prouremenmt of scool textbooks, fnire and
equipment.
(c) hiring and assigning teachers.
(d)   fomulating prosed unt costs and guidelines.
(e)   providing MPG and MOFEP with enrolmet data and unit cost formla
each year to ensure effective budgeting following consuion with
provinces.
(f)   proposing a range of acceptable fees, and approval of spedfic proposals
from sdcols.
(z)   makn  budget proposals for NSSs based on Its own unit costs and
gukdelhe.



-77-                        ANNEX 18
Qi)  designig principal requrmes for ensuring fnacial accountabilI of
schools.
3.          Nationl Educaton Board
(a)   submitting of the proposed range of acceptable fees to the Minister of
Education and Human Resources.
4.          MPG and MHA
(a)   ensuring tat budget proposals for central fiacing of education In
provinces are based on MEHRD guidelines and unit costs.
(b)   monitoring to ensure effeive use of funds by provincial govements.
S.         MOFlP
(a)   advising MEHRD on the inflation rate to be used for budgeting
formulae.
(b)   consog a national educational budget proposal based on proposals
from MEHRD, MPG and MHA.
6.         Provinda Educationa Offices
(a)   making recommendations to MEID   on new establishment/eion
and closure of school.
(b)   proposing modifications to MEHRD unit grats to allow for special
(c) making additional finds available from provincial resources.
(d)   administg the prourmen of goods and services such as travel
expenss.
(e)   monitoring to ensre equitable and effective In   of policies
within the province.
(f) guiding and training of key school staff for effective financial
management.
(g)   d     natng school budgetary informadon to swhools.



-78 -                        ANNEX 18
7.          Ptovindal Tlasurer
(a)   etablishing a separat account for primary school grant, or oterwis
ensui  that the education budget is not used to subsidize other line
tems in te provice.
(b)   establshing individual eondary school accounts to which both etral
grants and fees would be deposed.
(c)   initially asisng schools In keeping accounts, and mang sure th at
monthly reports are delivered to schools.
8.          Schools
(a) proposals for a specific fee level.
@b)   collecing of fees.
(c)   admini    the use of collected fees for boading expenses,
maintnanc and supplies.
(d)   finanial reportin to provinces and school boards.



-79-                       ANNEX19
FINANCING PLAN
MEDIUM TElRM FhNCING PLAN
1.         PrImanry Education. A simple formula of SBD 15 per pupil would
be applied country-wide in FY1993, based on estimated enromnts. These unit
costs would remain constant in the real terms, with nominal additional amounts
calculatd annually using an inflation factor endorsed by the MOFEP.
2.          Secondary Education. For FY 1993, th  separate formulae based
on average per student subsidies of FY 1992 for govemnment NSSs, church NSSs
and PSSs would be used (fuure secondary and junior secondary schools). Before
FY 1999, these  ree formule would be gradualy merged to be replaced with a
single formula, consting of a unit recurrent subsidy per student plus adjustments
for school size and distance. This would be equivalent to the current levels of
cntral grants for the PSSs and NSSs, i.e. SBD 350, which is efimated to be at
most about 50 percent of unit non-teacher recufrent costs. This would Imply that
the tuiton fe charged to parents would have to cover the remaining 5O perent of
the operating costs. In order to arrive at an appropriate formulation to adjust for
school size and distance, each school/province would be asked to monitor all school
rdlated costs in 1993. Using these data, new adjustment terms, which would
introduce a modest variation of subsidy levels among schools, would be itroduced
stardtng in FY 1995. In the following sections, the manner in which a unit
recurrent subsidy per student is to replace three separate subsidies are described.
All figures presented are given at 1992 prices, and need to be modified for
inflation. It is particularly important that all schools be given the outline of the
financing plan, so that they can anticipate changes, and plan accordingly.
(a) NSSs, King George VI and Waimapuru, which currently receive the
most generous levels of central government support at about SED
780 per student, would receive SBD 80 less per student each year
starting in FY 1993, such that their unit recurrent cost subsidy would
be reduced to SBD 375 by 1998. Given the expected inflation rates,
such reduction is likfly to mean a constant levels of rewures in
nominal terms, with declines in real terms. The shortfall would need
to be covered by increased tuition fees charged to parents or reduced
costs.



-o-                        ANNEX 19
(b) Church NSSs. This group would be affected the least by fte
prwposed finaning plan, mainly becaue they are already charging
variable levels of fees to cover their costs, and would continue to
receive the equivalent of SBD 350 per student.
(c)   PSSs. All PSSs woud receive SBD 375 per student in BY 1993 to
1995, the average unit cost allocated for FY 1992. T'he introduction
of unified curricula is expected to increase tir undt costs by at least
SBD 125 (to bring them up to the lowest church NSS cost structure),
and the difference is expected to be covered primarily by increased
fees to parets and where possible through provincial subsidies.
(d)   Detatlon of fee levels. Fee levels ought to be determined by
the individual schools based on their needs. This is in fact already
practiced since the range of fees is determined based on requests
from individual schools. The role of the onday division in the
RM D would then be one of monitoring to review (a) shortfall of
the government resources in covering the required recurrent costs;
and (b) the possble adverse impact of high fees on lower income
chldren.



spot u6mf
   ews~~96"                    ODM           6sw   e t     6tobZ                                                                                               tt ll s  9s    l          sm     'i''"1
~~~~~~6M                      ......... ;~ w......   .....................                              -T                           ..w. b --!n !*  -* 
Itl#t O~~~su                      Wm         9"        SU            imt            ISK     _mt   9     if   e                966IS "1
0199  n    ~~llU#t  It                 0St lDW                    ecu   W10"s  059   etues    oeosst  suesb  onism   owtZ                                         _ otZ  00"             ettI  U                                 tS lo
VMS  6 lS otn                   t  Dom                      s nit O    es6n   "reWm                                         o  a             6  o                     e          W                  om uom  %U U"l.
............                  ............... ......... ............... ..... .......... *viwv ....           ... .......... -....... ;........ ;..*  oo*........        .... ;o ......   ........
~~~~~~.............................................................. ...................................................... -..... . .
It1             Wt Vf S               Oltfs on                    opeDS       "Mzt  e               ec#son  MIN                        enS Oml on   e" a"    eD" 0f                                                        PM4F4a
,.,,.._,,         .............................. albx...................................................................................                                                                 11mde
0~~~~~~~~~ 
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
onom  a          nos 0                a           sooU s
ous*m                     301935          00018f    HltL          00i0       OIDOM       omit        oIoos      lSflI9       mmUI       510,       600         ff6511      503091               $ W       4Pe  Po I
oA  S16          o          00 6           0           0           0          0oK         00                0                0 O         000         0          0m           OU0Il
P5160     11                                a09              095       0014         U91       09 0         330659    a@69         suww       otwi        owno        ucog       00169        fosobcl                 s      "iuAn 14  It
3091  61      061                     000                       0"VMS           VA      096119      131906  0v             0 &                                0095P                                           IA      1 5
...9  I .       16 ...0..0........0...                              961A 0i0p611                     091         000                                0           000093ow140"   081         IN                            Swu~
awoos    it  isLam  4     00906519        0000096    090699      1110$       005        01569       @619        54959        (903      0611        0           0(a9     9 00001su                        UIMI 



OL}MON 1LANDS
h4ecS8                  by Yer and Frpu
Totats Including Contingencies
USt
......................................................................
1993      t994       1995       1996       199?       1996      Total
A. Seondary Ed Expenmion
1. Upgrading of a PSS              S0349   13SO30S   336180S    1186S12            0         0    5948972
2. Fors 1-3 In S JSS               20976    S5S910    1168536    318200            0          0   206M4
3. Von-Teacher Costs                   0          0      60403     120805    120805    120805    422619
.......................................W.........;..................;....
Sub-Total                              71325    1909815    459046    162S517    120805    120805   843901S
3. Teacher Upgrading                 101936     152044      15S11      33618      36450      39540    379097
C. Curricutum and Materials
1. Curricutna Dewelopment          95593    257806       85317      48501       8740      9062     505039
2. Materiats Production           160045    561247    327884    332462    219493    228088    1849218
3. In-service Training             5245S     153395     16S794     130277    140870       9475     77542
.............................................. ....i.................
Sib-Totat                             306093    992448    578995       511240    369102    331921    3091799
0. Nurses Tralning
1. At SICNE                       36799     1455768    452907      156S77    199272    137929   2770451 2
2. In the Prowinces                 999       92389      12729      21813      36650     32522    206102
Sub-Total                             377996    14s8157    465636      178390    2352        17451    2976S53
E. Staff Oevlieto t                   64726     1756       100430      S0556          0          0    386266
f. Pro ect Npt and Studles           180881     526991    511900      154683      70210      74045    1S18710
6. Cyclone.retlief                   179866   1820134           0          0          0          0    2000000
.............i;.......;;;....................;;;....................
Totel PROJECTS COSTS                 12824    7120145    63218    2554005    83249    736761   18791442
..................................................................................... ..........................
49/1993 10:26
It



- 83-                                       ANNEX22
IMYPLEMIATION SCIEDULE AND
SUPERVISION PLAN
__,,_.   ____ , _     ___ _         .ao ,.wOupt .uw e .                  _e,h,,, ,, , 
1 8_
Ja- J      _0Aeitte                  3.  AinmwosPepa flnhdSIGIID.    septoa Uakuata~ap.su
hittol sits -Wwy.dE.su                                                                  nfi.
_         _      Z     _ J*=040artAreommi
P_w_I                                  cpd.                                    Di          n 1lU.
1smfltsP . .11 OS.SUISUi YOU. pnpeud  SepS   - P  cpal hadbo*.                      199*
mad svi eewd wist810.                Ceajial prwou_umaot Iat tabo_ educato  Fd eb/Mucb- Revi  a mi.   U i
moor" hed*.                                     wait ud      bm _ L
PA. AolatpamGat                                                                     OctNovb()y      - msy)   stff swine
=a1111001.                     Oct- Anaacfcaau.StO/Pmyina      .                    mi raimto-mu W.
AB  Swq MInuAd cunicuham 100*ub3
VW  Nepotiatiom.                          u.                                        Oct/Nov Yeas
leat SICHBIEM D teahe  ee  oIpt                plepwallofs f s_masr I*t&
May - Baud Pa m                              p       .   mvikey pveaje blma
in Oct
1* - MlO to sN  oA  it of            Nov . Tender for pbaitg exiig eucatian       *        view imms ran  Oct.
archtata magama s
cuulcubancomuhaesa.            Dec- Aidltecb_uadcg pha I csplded.              Nov/Doe - RrA      ll d  l
Aug. CMk lBflichm| 199 
Feb - Tadwrjh. t cU wawb cal.                   MIAS
S    -e/Oct- IPU/MED beg  weak on        . Sec*meyTeacheR upgin Pr        be        Oc/Nov -    tUil W evw.
F*Actkmomace p*c                     at SICHE.
end repeating.                     * Paintingconttafduconmarhtiab
I     sed  to coat/Det 1993.
SaeOat- Dank sata   md   .
Jume,. Countat  enm I "ii wadts signe and
supervision e hta abphyeLd
Oct.- Equipment agEs. phase I prepared .
ArchAfecu,lDrlpus bm I ecanpleted.
.~~~~~~~Fu ouagWedwcondeltau.
199&
Feb - Tadwe a    1 CHwdv  s
* Redptc,ipOl-                           I
Mr -  P      civil workc   .  Iwarded md
- lae It e    _eatt ed.
- Taaedrfor psing swaw curuicuhim _-au
yeas wit di4tributIon to dcol about
hat/?b flbwing yea.
May.- Receip ph.. I equlpmeat.
Julty  T-d pgh. 1I equien
De. FIal Policy bebockprkesI
Ibm I civil b   cmpleted.
u  Receipt phase H eqspxtnL
1996.98. Psig CDC elucain Mtdh 4angobig
SeL- Competlephse U conut
Dec 9 9. Pba   l   wocompled.
Piiequpetrcie.



.
DMPLEMERrATON SHDL
C! ~
CYr   19M    1994    1  195           1996         I"?9t       1998         1999
-Ak It      1994        199         1999         199i         1998        1999        2000
ox~~ a                                         r                                                ll  
ProfesSIonal services                                  - - I I
Refrbsbig xisting building.                                         --."
New onstrultion_
Fonnets_F__l   
Phase IPsgadfrlhn                     
1:1f 1     services---------
Revr constrction                              -    _   _ = - -  -                                            
NMw construction
zcpppn  ndfurnishing-----                                                                         
Non-tinhr reewrreat coots                                          +     +    5___[                        _       
TecerW i education specialist
Constructio  and furnishing
of 2 houses at S1CHE
Curriculum and materials:
QtrrTICUIUM develepaut:
Tecbnical assistance
CDC policy spcialist---  
Short-term training - CDC director
Constructinadfrshg
of 2 hs I t at=
kiterl        tionI
Tegraicalg and frisang c   rn  shop
Cronstuction spdequippin
Warehouse specialist
Short-term trafinin - varehousing
In-service prlmry teacher trainflin



CT   IM     IM          1995      11996       199           MS         199
IDA T      1994        995        1996        1997        1998       1999        2000
Pofesseisonal seIvIce
Constructoln
.r"j piugandfurnishing-
"OC i!stauc.  review
a oversieas): 
Grdutesecilatons                    -       --  t- -                                                         11 -         
In the proincecfrsc_
Co1nsct _     andu     student
accdaton at                             _ _L___locatio
1Studenty tralnspo
Senor -e   aerlPhKOst_=                       _                                                           l   
Siltraininn
OSpce8cialed trloaningr                -            =    =t=         =        -                           1   
PrInti  of handbooks
Overseas efoahie
Short-tur or k   imspector
Sdueation pln  "In
Technical   si ad
detver inspectors courses
frnaw~tg4a      tanasuies:
ecnclcoordination
Local consulac
Offtecossanlocal transport           -    -                            -- - - - -
Svuippire  thscol
aMPs at Aiiege,  uara, luavatu eMa'a and Ditala
MeI at  sLOu   ay, lamoes and  esib
cJUG5 at ovaidinals. ismgu   andi atom
Ii 55 at Sonara an gSata, Ana



- 86 -                      ANNEX23
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMNTS
Disbursements
Amount per           Cumulative          Disbursement
IDA fiscal year    semester        Amount           %        profile k
and semester      --(US$ million)----
1994
1                  1.2 La          1.2            7           2
2                  0.4             1.6            9           9
1995
1                  1.3            2.9            17          16
2                  2.1             5.0           30          26
1996
1                  2.3            7.3            43          34
2                  2.4             9.7           57          42
1997
1                  1.8            11.5           68          50
2                  1.5            13.0           77          58
1998
1                  ;.2           14.2            84          66
2                  1.0            15.2           90          74
1999
1                  0.9           16.1            95          84
2                  0.8            16.9          100          95
La Initial deposit.
lk Based on Country Profile.



-87 -                       ANNEX 24
SELECTED DOCUMENTATION IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports Related to the Sector
A. 1  Solomon Islands - Education Sector Plan, November 1988.
A.2  Strategies for Educational Development in the 1990's, by Mostyn Habu, August
1989.
A-3  Ministry of Education and Human Resources, Provincial Secondary Schools,
School Leaver Tracer Study, by Geoffrey Coyne October 1989.
A-4  Solomon Islands Ministry of Education and Human Resources, Education
Sector, Policy, Planning and Project.
A-5  Ministry of Education and Human Resources, Education Sector Policy
Statement, Cabinet approved April 1991.
A-6  Ministry of Education and Human Resources, Facilities and Location Survy,
Primary and Secondary Schools, by Lois Goodes and Janet Mattiske, November
1991.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the ProJect
B.1  Solomon Islands Government Ministry of Education and Human Resources,
New Project Proposals Submitted for the Tripartite Review Discussions 5th to
14th of November 1990.
B.2  Solomon Islands Education Rounf Table Conference of Aid Dsiors and
Solomon Islands Government, November 1991.
B.3  Solomon Islands Ministry of Education and Human Resources, Report on The
Primary Curriculum, by Ian Collingwood, Febnrary 1992.
B.4  The Solomon Islands Ministry of Education and Human resources, A Review
of the Selection and Guidance Functions Within the Ministry of Education by
Ian D. Livingstone, March 1992.



- 88 -                      ANNEX24
B.5  Report on Primary Teacher Education in Solomon Islands, by Lester 0. Taylor,
March 1992.
B.6  Consultant Report to the Solomon Islands Government and the Government of
Austla, A Review of the Curriculum Development Centre by Pacific
Regional Team Centre for Pacific Development and Training (AIDAB), March
1992.
B.7  Daft Policy Handbook: Ministry of Education and Human Resources Prepared
With Consutant Assistance of R. Rawlinson, March 1992.
B.8  Review of Education in the Solomon Isands January - April 1992, Inspecate
and Advisoxy Services by K. Foster.
B.9  Solomon Islands Secondary School Science Education Project - Feasibility
Study/lDrft Project by Australian Internatonal Development Assistance Bureau,
April 1992.
3.10 Secondary Curiculum Renewal, A Position Paper Prepared for the Solomon
Islands Government and the Government of Austmalia (AIDAB), April 1992.
B.11 Report on Learning Materials Production and Distribution in the Solomon
Islnds by Nigel Draper, April 1992.
B.12 Solomon Illands, Ministry of Education and Human Resources, Synopsis of
Reviews, by Ralph RawliHnson, April 1992.
C. Seected Woring Papers
C. 1 Detailed Description of Each Component.
C.2 Consultant Terms of Refrence.
C.3 Detailed Cost Tables.



,---   X      i    I  ~     ~    ~ ~~r . ....... ..... . -.. -............ . -. ........
5 /            |     5                1__       X        4~~~~<
w      ,, 11         U0  W 1,            j<,') \~~( ;D 
1AZS~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ZS in 
I         i  [SgAs''         i I 
S~~~~~C L             f              /M g s   
:11   i *  Sgt                      . 4        //  z , ,,Z
I                                                 .  g



