                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25073

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-25000)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17.1 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                          SOLOMON ISLANDS

                                                 FOR A

                           THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT




                                              June 10, 2003




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective March 1993)

                           Currency Unit = Solomon Islands Dollars (SBD)
                              SBD 2.930 = US$ 1
                            US$ 335,570 = SBD 1 Million

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDC                         Curriculum Development Center
CHS                         Community High School
DfID                        Department for International Development, United Kingdom
EFA                         Education for All
MDG                         Millenium Development Goals
MEHRD                       Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development
MHMS                        Ministry of Health and Medical Services
NZODA                       New Zealand Official Development Assistance
PILL                        Pacific Islands Literacy Levels
PIRU                        Planning, Implementation and Research Unit
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SICHE                       Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
SIG                         Solomon Islands' Government
UNDP                        United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO                      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA                United Nations Family Planning Agency




                          Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
               Country Manager/Director:     Zhu Xian
                Sector Manager/Director:     Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Rekha Menon

                                   SOLOMON ISLANDS
                    THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P004629                                                      Project Name: SB-EDUCATION III
Team Leader: Rekha Menon                                                 TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 10, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: SB-EDUCATION III                                         L/C/TF Number: IDA-25000
   Country/Department: SOLOMON ISLANDS                                                    Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (56%); Primary education (16%); Health
                            (15%); General public administration sector (11%); Tertiary
                            education (2%)



KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/24/1991                                        Effective: 12/28/1993              10/29/1993
   Appraisal:    09/25/1992                                            MTR: 11/24/1996                11/24/1996
    Approval:    05/25/1993                                         Closing: 06/30/1999               12/31/2001

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SIG/MIN EDUC.& H.R.DEV.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum                                 Gautam S. Kaji
Country Director:          Xian Zhu                                            Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:            Christopher Thomas                                  Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:        Rekha Menon                                         Albert Aime
ICR Primary Author(s): Luis Benveniste; Rekha Menon;
                           Lingzhi Xu; Ian Collingwood;
                           Naoki Umemiya; with Junxue
                           Chu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

In 1992, there were about 65,700 students enrolled in primary schools and 6,700 in secondary schools,
with just about 1,200 students attending beyond Form 3 (Grade 9). The level of participation by females
showed a decrease from about 37% in Form 1 to about 29% in Form 4. Data from the 1990 Pacific
Islands Literacy Levels (PILL) test demonstrated that although most primary school graduates could
perform simple literacy tasks after 6 years of education, 18% of students were considered "at risk" in basic
numeracy skills.

Teachers were ill-prepared, especially at the secondary level where there were no adequate pre-service
training programs at the Solomon Islands College of Higher Education (SICHE). Twenty three percent of
upper secondary teachers were expatriates. Goverment expenditures in education showed a declining trend
and were heavily skewed towards the higher education sector. Education service delivery in general, and
especially the primary level, relied on a high degree of cost recovery.

Another group of profesionals trained at SICHE are nurses and midwives. In 1992, the Solomon Islands
had the highest population to nurse ratio in the Pacific at 730:1 which was low compared to most
developing countries and especially a concern given the remote locations of some health facilities and the
poor health status of the population.

The development objectives for the Third Education and Training Project reflected four policy priority
areas of the Solomon Islands' Government (SIG): (a) easing the bottleneck to secondary education access,
particularly at Forms 4 and 5, while encouraging greater participation of females at this level: (b)
improving educational quality at the primary and secondary levels; (c) reviewing the allocative efficiency
and strenghtening the management of the educational system; and (d) responding to a shortage of skilled
nurses and midwives. These priorities had been established through a series of sectoral studies conducted
jointly by other donors and IDA, and acknowledged by all parties at two Donor Round Tables. In addition,
while the project was under preparation, Cyclone Nina had seriously damaged or destroyed primary school
facilities in four provinces. SIG requested that IDA consider financial support to address this emergency
situation.

Thus, the specific objectives of the Third Education and Training Project were to:

    1. Expand access to secondary schools, while increasing female participation to 45%;
    2. Introduce lower unit-cost day secondary schools at the village level;
    3. Improve the quality of primary and secondary education through teacher upgrading and in-service
         training, curriculum inputs and increased availability of educational materials;
    4. Enhance the efficiency and management of the educational system;
    5. Expand the supply of nurses and midwives;
    6. Strengthen budgeting and financing planning to promote the rationalization of the education sector;
         and,
    7. Undertake emergency rehabilitation or reconstruction of education facilities damaged or destroyed
         by Cyclone Nina in January 1993.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.



                                                     - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

Component 1. Secondary Education Expansion
The Secondary Education Expansion component provided for (a) the expansion and renovation of eight
existing secondary schools (grades 7 to 11), including workshops, science laboratories, staff housing and
boarding facilities to promote participation of girls; and (b) the construction of five new village junior
secondary day schools (grades 7 to 9).

Component 2. Teacher Upgrading
The Teacher Upgrading component supported (a) the development of an Advanced Diploma at the Solomon
Islands College of Higher Education for accreditation into teaching at the secondary level in the fields of
English, Mathematics, Business Studies and Social Studies; (b) upgrading of 25 to 30 existing teachers to
the Advanced Diploma level per year; (c) provision of 5 to 10 overseas fellowships for teacher upgrading
from diploma to degree level on an annual basis; (d) short-term overseas fellowships for two two SICHE
teacher trainers; and (e) construction of staff houses at SICHE.

Component 3. Curriculum and Materials
The Curriculum and Materials component included: (a) syllabi review and development for the
recently-introduced "mixed mode" curriculum in secondary schooling; (b) funding for a printing facility, the
construction of a storage warehouse and staff housing for the Curriculum Development Center (CDC); (c)
materials production, printing and distribution; and (d) in-service training for primary teachers in the use of
the existing and new educational materials and textbooks developed at the CDC.

Component 4. Nurses' Training
The Nurses' Training component included (a) civil works construction and remodelling for classrooms and
accommodation at SICHE's School of Nursing in the Kukum Campus and selected rural health facilities;
(b) review of the nursing curriculum, including a practicum graduation requirement for students at selected
provincial hospitals; (c) staff upgrading through in-service and overseas training; and (d) increase the
supply of nurses by raising enrollment to 50 students per year to meet identified shortages.

Component 5. Staff Development
The Staff Development component sought to improve the efficiency and management of the education
system by (a) providing training for Ministry of Education and Human Resources (MEHRD) middle-level
and management staff; (b) developing an MEHRD policy handbook and school management manuals; and
(c) providing in-country and overseas training for CDC, assessment, inspectorate and provincial staff to
increase their skills in performing their tasks.

Component 6. Project Management and Studies
The Project Management and Studies component financed (a) project management related activites under
the leadership of the Planning, Implementation and Research Unit (PIRU); and (b) sectoral policy research,
including a study to strengthen budgeting and financing planning. The financing plan sought to promote
the rationalization of the education sector by (i) developing a unit-cost based formula for central
government grants/subsidies, (ii) establishing a workable mechanism for a flow of funds, and (iii)
establishing a budgetary process to support such a fund flow.

Component 7. Emergency Cyclone Relief
The Cyclone Relief component undertook the rehabilitation or reconstruction of classrooms and staff
houses at about 60 primary schools located in three provinces, where education facilities were seriously


                                                       - 3 -

damaged or destroyed as a result of Cyclone Nina. The component was also to provide educational
materials, textbooks, equipment and schools supplies for these damaged schools.

3.4 Revised Components:

Component 8. Emergency Rehabilitation Grants
In early 2001, after about a one-year suspension period brought about by a civil strife between Malaita and
Guadalcanal, an additional component was included into the project to utilize savings made as a result of
currency realignments. At this time, most of the activities programmed within the original project design
had been or were close to being completed. The Emergency Rehabilitation Grants component was to
undertake renovation and repair of community high schools and teachers' housing damaged or destroyed as
a result of the civil strife through a targeted community-based small grants program aimed at providing
furniture, education materials, textbooks, school equipment and school supplies. A community-based
approach was favored to facilitate rapid implementation within the allotted project extension period and to
promote social participation during this reconciliation period. The component's objectives were within the
original objectives of the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. Although project objectives and components are consistent with
policy priorities of MEHRD, the overall design was considered weak on a number of counts. It should be
noted that there was no Pacific Regional Strategy (CAS) within which to anchor the project design prior to
2000. A brief country strategy note was included as part of the Memorandum of the President to the
Executive Board for this project (Report No. P-6000-SOL). Project design was developed in coordination
with a donor support program that included Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, UNESCO, UNDP
and the South Pacific Board for Educational Assessment.

Project concept, objectives and approach. The project contained too many diffuse objectives, which
complicated implementation. In retrospect, although the project sought to promote a sector-wide strategy,
the lack of a tight focus across project components, coupled to Government's limited institutional capacity
and an unstable socioeconomic and political environment, precluded from a coherent sectoral vision.

Project activities, if more closely integrated, may have had a larger impact. Some specific examples are
supplied to illustrate this point. First, even though the project covered the primary, secondary and tertiary
levels, more attention could have been devoted to the linkages across sub-systems--patterns of student
flow-supply-demand, poverty targeting and equity considerations. Second, the project could have fostered
closer ties across teacher training, curriculum development, school supervision and student assessment
activities. Finally, the Nurses' Training component seems especially out of place in the overall project
design.

Technical and economic aspects. Until the early 1990s, 22 of 23 secondary schools were boarding
establishments, mostly catering to a select group of students. National secondary schools, those providing
5 years of post-primary education, had a richer curriculum as well as superior physical facilities and
resources than provincial secondary schools, only providing 3 years of post-primary schooling. Hence, the
project sought to support the equalization of this two-tiered system by upgrading some provincial
secondary schools into offering Forms 4-5 and instituting a national "mixed mode" curriculum. In addition,
the project introduced lower-cost day junior secondary schooling, later known as "Community High
Schools," to broaden access to post-primary education.




                                                       - 4 -

The project greatest achievement was probably the introduction of Community High Schools (CHS). This
idea quickly took root across villages that vied to open secondary education opportunities for their children.
Project investments in civil works certainly assisted in creating more secondary school seats, but these
efforts were dwarfed by those made by local communities directly. And without doubt, communities
attained this same goal at a remarkably lower cost by building schools with local materials. The average
investment on civil works for the National and Provincial secondary schools financed through the project
was estimated at its inception at around US$500,000 per school. Actual average costs came out just below
US$ 675,000 per educational establishment, for a total of US$ 8.76 million for 13 schools. The
appropriateness and cost-effectiveness of this investment is at best open to question.

At project's end, the two-tiered secondary school system remained in place nonetheless. National and
provincial secondary schools stand apart from village CHS. The gap in physical and human resourcing has
not diminished and the "mixed mode" curriculum is in urgent need of review.

Poverty aspects. In terms of distributive impact, more than half of project investments were made in
secondary education -- and especially in upper secondary classrooms. Thus, project investments tended to
benefit differentially more affluent sectors of the Solomon Island population (who can attend secondary
schooling and afford its fees). Compounding this, investments were largely distributed to administrative
districts with limited consideration given to targeting vulnerable populations or making provisions to
opening up new opportunities for disadvantaged children.

Educational and policy aspects. The project adopted a traditional inputs-oriented supply-driven approach
in addressing barriers to schooling access and poor educational quality. The strategy espoused was
primarily to construct facilities, provide basic materials and offer training for teachers. This approach
demonstrated some success in reducing gender barriers in secondary education; however, it also
demonstrated some shortcomings. For instance, although the Advanced Diploma teacher in-service scheme
was designed as an avenue to enhance teacher quality, it elicited very little demand among its target
audience. It would have perhaps been beneficial to explore interventions and policy alternatives that would
have fostered greater educational equity and effectiveness, such as elimination of formal and informal fees
for poor children to eliminate access barriers, incentives schemes to promote attendance by
under-represented or disadvantaged groups, regular monitoring of educational quality and student
achievement outcomes, etc.

Although the Staff Appraisal Report emphasized the importance of quality enhancement needs, project
components were heavily skewed towards civil works, even for software components such as Teacher
Upgrading or Curriculum and Materials. This was partially a result of the fact that other international
partners had agreed to provide grant financing for software-type activities and capacity building. Facilities
construction certainly contributed positively to the rise in student enrollments at the secondary level. Yet,
some project choices deserved closer scrutiny. For instance, as indicated earlier, the upgrading of eight
schools and construction of five additional ones had been originally budgeted at an average of over US$
500,000 per school. Boarding schools were promoted as a means to encourage female participation;
however, it is not apparent the extent to which parents are willing to send their daughters away to school
or, since the education system is largely dependent on cost recovery, pay for their education. The share of
females in secondary schooling has increased from 36% in 1992 to 43% in 2001, but the share represented
by females at the senior secondary level actually continues to lag considerably behind at 38%.
Complementary analytical work and investments in capacity building and policy development would have
helped to ensure that these investments in hardware produced a higher return.

Project intervention choices in terms of teacher professional development proved to be misguided. Teacher


                                                      - 5 -

pre-service training sponsored through the project was heavily reliant on costly overseas fellowships, which
ultimately rendered little benefit due to high drop out rates of trainees who could not cope with the
academic demands of a challenging university curriculum. The Advanced Degree teacher in-service/
upgrading scheme produced good materials, but could not attract a critical number of trainees because it
was a residential program which required teachers to be absent from their schools and classrooms for long
periods. In addition, the absence of reinforcing salary incentives upon graduation discouraged student
demand.

Institutional capacity. The project did not do enough to compensate for MEHRD's limited management
capability, which was clearly pointed out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as a "serious" risk. The
project was too complicated with too many activities for a country of limited human resources and
implementation capacity. Implementation support was largely concentrated at the central level, with little
assistance provided to provincial offices where much of the day to day work takes place. The project was
managed from a Project Implementation and Research Unit (PIRU), which also functioned as the Planning
Unit of MEHRD. This unit was consumed by the requirements of the project (procurement, financial
management, etc.) and took on the responsibility of implementing the project rather than coordinating its
implementation. Project implementation took precedence over PIRU's role in education planning. Other
departments of MEHRD had overall limited involvement in the implementation of project components.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of objectives and outputs under the Third Education and Training project was rated overall
satisfactory, but important caveats need to be highlighted.

As seen in Table 1, the project was part of a successful expansion in access to secondary education, with
an increase in student enrollments at the senior secondary level from 1,099 in 1990 to 5,854 in 2001 and at
the junior secondary level from 4,822 in 1990 to 17,263 in 2001. Girls' enrollment rates in (junior and
senior) secondary schools also showed significant growth, from 2,086 in 1990 to 9,866 in 2001, accounting
for approximately 43% of the total enrolment. In absolute terms, the gains in student enrollment well
surpassed project expectations. There was also a notable increase in female participation at the secondary
level, albeit the share of girls' participation fell short by two percentage points of project targets. The
male-female participation gap has remained acute at the senior secondary level, where females' share only
amounted to 38% of the total enrollment.

                               Table 1. Indicators on secondary schooling access

                                                                             1990                 2001
                Enrollment at Senior Secondary School                        1,099                5,854
                 Enrollment at Junior Secondary School                       4,822               17,263
        Girls' enrollment in secondary schools (% of the total)               37%                 43%

This dramatic growth in enrollments was initially spurred by the civil works supported by the project. But,
perhaps most importantly, the project provided a sound demonstration model in its pilot lower unit-cost
village schools that was quickly replicated nationwide. CHS spread swiftly throughout the country, opening
up secondary education opportunities throughout the archipelago. The total number of secondary schools
increased from 35 in 1995 to 122 in 2002.




                                                         - 6 -

The overall picture at the primary level is more troubling. The project did not (and probably could not
have) anticipate the deterioration experienced in relative access and quality in primary schooling that was
to take place during the 1990s caused by a downturn in the economy and civil unrest combined to an
overall expansion in education demand (especially at the secondary level) that put a strain in already
poorly-resourced schools. The project could not respond in sufficient measure to these developments, and
the Solomon Islands now finds itself in the difficult position of declining primary enrollment rates at the
same time it is reaffirming its commitment to achieving quality Education for All.

According to the 2000 Census, only 80% of 7 to 13 year old children attend school, a significant drop in
their enrollment share from estimates in the early 1990s. In terms of gender disparities, attendance rates
for boys and girls are largely at parity at a young age, but the gender gap tends to increase as children grow
older.

Educational quality data from the 1993 and 1999 PILL test administered to a sample of Grade 4 students
reveal a decrease in student achievement over time. The extent of the decline was significant in most
provinces, especially in Isabel and Choiseul. In percentage terms, the reduction in literacy for the nation
was 15%. The decline for numeracy was 9.5%. Expressed in terms of a basic literacy standard -- evidence
of some capacity to produce or comprehend simple prose in English -- then only 43% of grade 4 children in
1999 could be defined as "literate." The corresponding figure for numeracy is 73%.

             Figure 1. PILL Literacy and Numeracy Mean Scores by Province, 1993-1999
             _________________________________________________________________________________________________

             Province                 English Literacy Difference             Numeracy            Difference
                                      1993      1999                          1993      1999
             _________________________________________________________________________________________________

             Honiara                  3.45      3.28         -0.17            3.70      3.07      -0.63
             Western                  3.24      2.61         -0.63            3.18      2.68      -0.50
             Malaita                  3.22      2.88        -0.34             3.42      3.40      -0.02
             Guadalcanal              2.75      2.45        -0.30             3.14      3.17      +0.03
             Makira                   2.67      1.81        -0.86             3.33      2.89      -0.44
             Temotu                   2.02      2.04       +0.02              2.86      2.98      +0.12
             Isabel                   3.19      2.01        -1.18             3.47      2.98      -0.49
             Rem/Bellona              2.33      1.90        -0.43             3.23      3.27      +0.04
             Choiseul                 2.88      2.04        -0.84             3.22      2.59      -0.63
             Central                  NA        2.86          --              NA        3.40        --
             _________________________________________________________________________________________________

             Total                    3.03      2.29        -0.74             3.34      3.00      -0.34
             _________________________________________________________________________________________________

             Note: Students are graded on a 5-point level scale
             Source: Examinations and Assessment in the Solomon Islands, Report of the Working Group on Assessment (2001)

Although the project delivered some quality enhancing inputs, these were insufficient to bring about a
significant change in average student outcomes. This might have been expected, given the large expansion
in enrollment, but it is nonetheless worrisome. In addition, schools still have insufficient textbooks and
teaching materials. Many primary schools still have few books, and key junior secondary subjects are
routinely taught with no student textbooks. An important part of the problem rests with how books are
distributed to schools. In many instances, books are procured or get printed but do not reach the end user.
They sit idle in Provincial Education Offices.

Project preparation was driven by a concern over the shortage of teachers. An expansion of secondary



                                                              - 7 -

schooling, particularly Forms 4 and 5, was deemed as a pressing and viable solution to increase the local
applicant pool to teaching certification programs and decrase the dependency on expatriate teachers. The
supply of candidates for a profession in teaching, once in great shortage, has surged, thanks to the
successful nationwide expansion in secondary schooling. Teachers are in fairly adequate supply for the
current level of student enrollment. The teacher-student ratio at the primary level is presently about 30:1.
As the country moves towards reaching its Millenium Development Goals/Education For All (MDG/EFA)
goals, there will be a need for more skilled personnel.

Schools face three distinct challenges related to teacher quality. First, a major problem is that teachers
(both trained and untrained) are inequitably distributed across provinces and between the primary and
secondary sectors. Second, many of the teachers who are certified as qualified in fact lack the content and
pedagogical knowledge to be effective teachers. Teachers receive minimal feedback on their performance
either from school heads or inspectors and there are no incentive mechanisms to motivate enhanced
professional conduct. Third, about 17% of primary teachers have not attended certification courses and
officially are viewed as unqualified and the current system of teacher pay does not provide strong incentives
for teachers to improve their skills.

From a sectoral perspective, the project made some important contributions during implementation to move
towards a sector-wide approach. Project financing was used to support policy research studies and a
number of task forces with representation from a wide spectrum of Ministry agencies and international
partners were established to explore challenges faced by the education system in areas such as curriculum,
teacher training, student assessment, vocational educational and institutional strengthening. The project
also financed stakeholder consultations and dissemination workshops which led to the development of an
interim Education Strategic Plan, 2002-2004, immediately following the post-conflict period. (The project
had also supported at an earlier stage an effort spearheaded by SIG and AusAid to develop an education
sectoral plan, but this initiative was interrupted when the civil strife erupted.)

In terms of education finance, the real value of public spending on education declined in recent years.
Hardest hit was primary education, and in particular funding for non-teacher operational needs and
instructional materials in schools. A school financing formula, known as the "Community Standard," was
developed and adopted under the project to attempt to revert this trend. This formula estimates operating
expenses for primary and secondary schooling and proposes a sliding scale for Government financing
across educational levels, giving preference to the primary sector. The proposed Government share ranges
from 90 per cent at the primary level to 50 pecent in upper secondary schools. The "Community Standard"
assumes and expects that communities will finance the difference between per student schooling costs and
Government's contribution. This has meant, in other words, that at present basic education is not free to
students as schools expect families to make financial contributions. Furthermore, the financial burden on
families has in all reality become more acute than originally estimated since the "Community Standard"
formula was deemed attainable under "moderate" or "high" economic growth scenarios which have not
materialized.

Thus, the country faces an intrinsic tension between making education free for all children and its ability to
adequately finance the education sector. Currently, SIG does not have adequate resources to support
educational services and depends on funding from international donors and family contributions to cover
basic school operating budgets. In the end, the "Community Standard" formula, as presently conceived,
may have helped maximize resources to education, but have placed an undue burden on the poor.
Community consultations clearly indicate that levies on families discourage access to schooling. Explicit
allowances and mechanisms for ensuring that schooling fees do not act as barriers to schooling entry --
such as a fee excemption program for poor children or in-kind labor in lieu of cash contributions -- need to


                                                     - 8 -

be urgently incorporated into the "Community Standard" allocative formula.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Secondary Education Expansion -- Cost: Estimated US$ 6.8 million; Actual US$ 8.76
million
The component experienced cost over-runs and implementation difficulties, but the expansion and
renovation of eight provincial schools were completed as planned, except that the scope of work in one of
the secondary schools was reduced and not finalized until the year 2000 due to a legal dispute between SIG
and a contractor. The construction and equipment of five village junior secondary schools was completed
as initially expected. Implementation delays were mostly product of poor management and supervision,
low skilled contractors, cash flow shortages, and access to and shipment of materials for schools in remote
areas. Greater community participation and oversight could have helped improve implementation and
foster grassroots ownership. However, on balance the component achieved its objective and is rated
satisfactory.

Component 2. Teacher Upgrading -- Cost: Estimated US$ 0.3 million; Actual US$ 0.38 million
The component successfully supported the design and development of the Advance Diploma programs at
SICHE for the subjects of English, Mathematics, Business Studies, Social Studies, Communication Skills
and Science. However, the teacher upgrading schemes did not achieve quantitative targets. The total
number of teachers upgraded to the Advanced Diploma level was a total of 30 during the life of the project,
rather than the targeted 25-30 per year. The problem with the Advanced Diploma scheme was that it
required teachers to be absent from their posts during the long training period. Local authorities could not
release teachers for training without closing schools or classes. Another reason for the lack of interest in the
program was the absence of salary rewards for those who completed the program. The Advance Diploma
program has now been rolled into the first year of the Bachelor of Education program.

The overseas fellowship scheme to upgrade teachers to degree level also turned out to be a disappointment.
The initiative got off to a late start. Instead of the expected 5 to 10 fellowships awarded per annum, only
ten candidates were actually selected by the National Training Unit. Of those ten, only one graduated in
Science, three others completed their studies under SIG sponsorship while the rest were either terminated or
withdrew voluntarily. Candidates found overseas courses in maths and science too challenging and were
quite unprepared both academically and socially. This component is rated unsatisfactory.

Component 3. Curriculum and Materials -- Cost: Estimated US$ 2.5 million; Actual US$1.81 million
The component successfully supported the development and adoption of the "mixed mode" curriculum, now
common to all secondary schools. At the secondary level, approximately 20,000 books were procured and
distributed to 13 project schools and 65 CHS, covering subjects such as English, Mathematics, Social
Studies, Agriculture, Business Studies, Home Economics, Industrial Arts, New Testament Studies,
Creative Arts and Physical education. Specialized equipment for science subjects were supplied to the five
project-sponsored CHS. The tremendous growth in CHS, however, has created new demand for materials
which the project could not meet. Furthermore, the civil strife in 2000 led to the destruction of facilities
and educational materials in many of the conflict areas. The need for books and laboratory equipment
remains high in much of the country.

At the primary level, the project funded the production and printing of 278,000 English and Mathematics
textbooks for Standards 1-3, including a supplementary storybook series, developed under the DfID-funded
Primary Education Development Project (PEDP). Due to delays in the revision of the syllabi for the upper
primary grades, textbooks and materials for Standards 4-6 were not financed by this component.



                                                        - 9 -

In-service training workshops for primary teachers in the use of existing and new educational materials and
textbooks developed at the CDC were provided to 2,860 primary teachers and head-teachers. As
highlighted in the PEDP midterm review, teachers who have received the new materials and training were
using them effectively in schools.

Two staff houses at the CDC were constructed and their printing shop equipment was upgraded to enable
small in-house printing jobs. A warehouse was built to improve the procurement, storage and distribution
of books. The construction of this center took over three years and was beset with problems, including
inappropriate selection for its site, changes in construction design, and lack of qualified constructors. The
building was completed during the life of the project, but neither sufficient personnel have been appointed
or trained to adequately staff it nor a business plan for effective management of a textbook distribution
network exists to date.

Overall, this component is rated satisfactory, although only marginally so.

Component 4. Nurses' Training -- Cost: Estimated US$ 2.4 million; Actual US$ 2.28 million
This component included the construction of accommodations for both male and female students as well as
five additional classrooms, a demonstration room, staff houses, a library and an ancillary house to the
School of Nursing. The additional civil works and related office, computing and classroom equipment
made it possible to increase the School of Nursing annual intake to more than 50 traineess a year, amply
reaching project targets. The quality of teaching was enhanced through in-service staff upgrading
programs.

A curriculum overhaul was conducted and approved by the School of Nursing Board of Studies. A
Queensland University of Technology report considered that the new diploma program provided
comprehensive coverage of the knowledge and skills required by beginning registered nurses, although
some changes were recommended to place greater emphasis on Primary Health Care concerns. Off-campus
accommodations for trainees during their practicum in rural clinics were built in 12 selected rural clinics.
This hands-on practical training opened the opportunity for improved medical services to many people in
underserved areas. Unfortunately, several of these facilities were vandalized during the civil strife.

The Midwifery course was developed and approved in 1999, but it has not been implemented due to the
civil strife and budgetary crisis that has enveloped SICHE thereafter. The course was later reviewed, found
inadequate and re-written under funding from UNFPA. The current World Bank-financed Solomon Islands
Health Sector Development Project supports a midwifery school which completed the pilot year in 2002
using the revised curriculum.

Overall, this component is rated satisfactory.

Component 5. Staff Development -- Cost: Estimated US$ 0.4 million; Actual US$ 0.18 million
This component financed a variety of training programs, including accounting and financial planning for
MEHRD education officers, financial management for 52 community high school principals, student
formative assessment for 41 primary teachers, and library management for school librarians. A high
quality training module on school monitoring and evaluation for inspectors was implemented, but the
instruments developed were never utilized in the field due to lack of counterpart funds or a transportation
budget for field visits. In addition, a National Education Summit was held in 1995.

The project also supported the elaboration and printing of an Education Policy and Administrative


                                                      - 10 -

Handbook as well as a Primary School Headteachers' Manual. These documents compile and present
MEHRD operational guidelines and procedures. Their practical application in actual terms, however,
could be described as limited.

Overall, this component is rated satisfactory, but again only marginally so due to limited implementation of
training and application of new procedures developed.

Component 6. Project Management and Studies -- Cost: Estimated US$ 1.3 million; Actual US$ 1.13
million
A unit-cost based education financing formula, the "Community Standard," was developed and approved
by Cabinet in 1999. The Government funds a percentage of the total operating budget needs of schools,
while Education Authorities, schools and communities are expected to raise their own income or fees to
meet the gap between expected costs and the share received from MEHRD. The "Community Standard"
formula, however, has not been fully implemented due to the financial cash flow problems currently being
experienced by SIG. Since the civil strife, some bilateral organizations have been covering recurrent
budget costs, including school capitation grants and teacher salaries.

The education financing study that gave way to the "Community Standard" is credited in providing credible
estimates for minimum financing requirements in primary and secondary schools (which were later used,
for example, by NZODA to establish a school grants program for secondary schools). The Solomon
Islands must now grapple with the fact that public resources even to meet the most basic education inputs
are severely limited. The Ministry will need to conduct further consultations with education authorities and
communities in order to address concerns over school fees acting as barriers to schooling for the most
disadvantaged children if Univeral Primary Education is to be achieved. The study provides a solid basis
to work from, but must be adapted to new needs that have emerged as a result of the budget crisis and civil
strife.

The overall rating for this component is satisfactory.

Component 7. Emergency Cyclone Relief -- Cost: Estimated US$ 2.0 million; Actual US$ 3.81 million
This component supported rehabilitation and reconstruction of 12 classrooms and 16 staff houses in
Guadalcanal, 76 classrooms and 42 staff houses in Makira, and 79 classrooms and 47 staff houses in
Temotu. The New Zealand Government furnished books and educational materials to these devastated
schools. This component experienced significant implementation difficulties due to remoteness of school
locations, shipping problems, material shortages and poor contractor performance. Implementation began
in 1994 but was halted for two years, leaving much of the civil works abandoned, particularly in Temotu
province. Implementation delays led to large cost overruns by about 40% of the project estimated budget
as new construction materials had to be procured and transported. The component was resumed in 1998
under a community-based contracting scheme with villages providing labor and the MEHRD Clerk of
Works providing supervision. This proved to be an effective implementation approach, leading to the
completion of all planned civil works. Since project objectives were ultimately reached after facing serious
difficulties and putting into practice a new implementation approach, this component is rated satisfactory.

Component 8. Emergency Rehabilitation Grants -- Cost: Estimated US$ 0.8 million; Actual US$ 0.56
million
This component provided targeted emergency rehabilitation grants to sixty-six community high schools
affected by the civil strife between Guadalcanal and Malaita. A community contracting approach was
espoused and streamlined procedures laid out in an operations manual. Provincial authorities and
communities were given responsibility to identify their needs, prepare a grant proposal and implement it.


                                                    - 11 -

Quality control and implementation supervision was led by a local Grants Management Committee, the
local education authority and PIRU. With the exception of two schools, there were no reported cases of
mismanagement of grant funding and 90% of schools completed implementation. The two principal
challenges encountered were: (i) lack of banking facilities made fund tranfers to remote locations difficult,
and (ii) hardware stores were only found in Honiara, Gizo and Auki, making purchasing and shipping of
materials difficult in all other locations. The overall rating for this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has had modest institutional development impact. On the one hand, the capacity of PIRU to
conduct basic sectoral planning and oversee implementation of sectoral interventions has been enhanced.
The Education Strategic Plan, 2002-2004, was a Ministry-led initiative developed through a participatory
process. PIRU played an important role as facilitator and coordinator across Ministry agencies and other
national and international education stakeholders.

On the other hand, the concentration of project implementation activities in PIRU circumscribed the role
and involvement of other relevant Ministry departments. PIRU attended to most project activities, with
limited participation from line agencies, such as the Teaching Service, Primary and Secondary Education
Divisions. SICHE's School of Nursing was perhaps a noteable exception. The project served as a platform
to strengthen its administrative and service delivery capacity. Also, the institutional capability of the CDC
to develop local syllabi and produce indigenous materials was bolstered, albeit the sustained technical
support from the PEDP project was a key contributing factor. The same has not held true for the textbook
distribution aspects of the project though. The CDC was only marginally involved in the construction of
the textbooks storage warehouse and has no capacity to oversee a distribution network.

The foundations of an education sector financing sustainability plan were designed with project support and
gained wide acceptance within the Ministry. Due to the economic crisis that ensued the civil strife,
financial sustainability of the sector remains to be highly questionable though.

Overall, although great effort and progress were observed during project implementation, the institutional
capacity of the central Ministry of Education remains weak. This situation has been exacerbated by the
recent civil conflict that severely disrupted government administration and displaced many civil servants.
At the provincial level, local Education Authorities are thinly staffed and lack the human and financial
resources to adequately service schools and their constituents. Public confidence in Government's ability to
attend to their educational needs is limited. It is not surprising that in this context the concept of
Community High Schools has firmly taken root across the country. Communities have assumed directly
the responsibility to mobilize and create new educational opportunities for their children.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                                      - 12 -

After growing by more than 6 percent per year during the 19921995 period, the Solomon Islands economy
turned downward. Exports declined partly as a result of the economic crisis in Asia, and more recently a
civil strife that has devastated the local economy. The economic performance for the past three years has
been reduced to less than half of its normal output. GDP growth slumped from an average of over 6%
during 1992-95 to an average of 0.2% during 1995-1999. The country's overall exports dropped from
US$150 million in 1999 to US$ 69 million in 2000. Increasing arrears in debt payments, declining
revenues, high government spending and an overexposed financial sector threaten the country's economic
stability. A further major contraction in economic growth cannot be ruled out. Thus, further public
expenditure declines also appear likely for the education sector.

In 2000, the country was enveloped by civil unrest between Malaita and Guadalcanal provinces which
severely disrupted Government functioning and put on hold project implementation for over one year.
Government staff were displaced. Many students stopped attending school in Guadalcanal and most
teachers left their posting. Some schools incurred significant physical damage as a result of the conflict
and/or lost their instructional materials and furniture due to violence or vandalism associated with the
unrest. Many students migrated in order to flee the violence and certain schools have experienced sharp
fluctuations in enrollments.

The economic crisis and civil unrest have left Government heavily dependent on donor support for
education sector recurrent costs. There is a need to build upon existing informal efforts for donor
coordination and support. International partner activities, however, have recently been shifting away to
other sectors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The inability of SIG to meet its debt service payments to the World Bank resulted in suspension of
operations and several delays in the availability of credit proceeds during the life of the project. In 2001
alone, the final year of the project, disbursements were halted on three occasions. This was tremendously
disruptive for project operations, which had to withstand these repeated "on-off" fluctuations as the country
goes in and out of suspension.

Counterpart funding was not always readily available and was eventually suspended due to the effects of
the social unrest on the national economy during the last years of the project. The unavailability of
counterpart funds brought about delays in cash flows and payments to project contractors who sometimes
found themselves forced to abandon project activities midway. The effectiveness of project investments
were also severely hampered by the lack of counterpart funding. For example, the school monitoring
training for school inspectors never translated into enhanced school support practices because there was no
transportation budget for school visits.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PIRU staff was stretched to the limit to manage, implement and monitor such a complex and demanding
project spread across the archipelago. The unit suffered from work overload, exacerbated by shortage of
dedicated full-time staff. In addition, PIRU staff had to juggle with the demands from other
bilaterally-supported projects. Staff were occassionally drawn from other departments, draining them in
turn of adequate staffing. Ministry and PIRU leadership experienced staff turnovers, further hindering
project implementation. In short, these constraints added up to an overall poor implementation capacity.

Although the project had a component to improve SICHE's School of Nursing, which is under the College
of Higher Education but is also supervised by the Ministry of Health and Medical Services (MHMS), there
was no inter-Ministerial management structure that included MHMS. On the other hand, PIRU staff made



                                                      - 13 -

a commendable effort to promote beneficiary participation and work closely with provincial Education
Authorities so as to incorporate their viewpoints and concerns into project activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project experienced significant cost overruns in two components. The Secondary Education Expansion
component was estimated at US$ 6.8 million and its actual costs came to US$ 8.76 million (+29%). The
Emergency Cyclone Rehabilitation component was estimated at US$ 2.0 million and its actual costs came
to US$ 3.81 million (+91%). The problems faced by these two components were largely similar:
inadequate costing and price contingency estimates, unrealistic completion schedules which did not take
into consideration of local situations such as remoteness of construction sites, implementation and
disbursement delays, lack of management experience and low skilled local contrators.

As explained in Section 5.1 above, cash flow problems, lack of counterpart financing and suspension of
project disbursements negatively impacted project implementation and progress.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated as unlikely. The financing of the education sector faces grave challenges.
Financial resources are insufficient to fund the education sector adequately and cover its minimum basic
requirements. In addition, governmental expenditures continue to be biased towards the higher levels of the
education system. In 1998, the government devoted 36% of the education sector budget to post secondary
education (out of which, a significant proportion is allocated to overseas scholarships) and only 60% to the
primary and secondary levels. This figure is three to four times greater than other island nations such as
Vanuatu or some of the Caribbean nations. This contributes to a shortage of funds for basic education,
particularly for the most disadvantaged sectors of the population. In order for advances in the expansion of
educational access and the enhancement of education quality to take root, Government must prioritize the
financing of the education sector while, at the same time, revise its existing budgetary allocations within the
sector. Although the project supported the development of a sustainable and more equitable education
financing formula, the "Community Standard," the current economic turmoil has made its implementation
improbable in the short term. Moreover, the "Community Standard" formula must be adapted to respond
to the needs of poor children that cannot afford school levies.

The institutional and managerial capacity of the Ministry of Education both at the central and provincial
levels require further strengthening to ensure the sustainability of activities and achievements of the project.
Provincial authorities are a vital link between schools and governmental support to the education sector.
Their role is of particularly importance given the remoteness and isolation of educational establishments in
relation to the capital city. Yet, provincial authorities are probably the governmental administrative
education agencies in most need of assistance. Staff would benefit from more training, resources and
incentives to perform their jobs well. Oftentimes, educational materials are stored for months in provincial
offices before distribution. And school inspectors have carried out too few school visitations in recent
years. Moreover, the turnover of local staff make it difficult to ensure continuity in provincial programs
and services. Delegating management and supervisory responsibilities to provinces and communities could
be an important vector to expand access and enhance quality of the education system. Strengthening this
educational level through technical assistance ought to be a priority in future interventions.

The secondary education sector has experienced rapid growth in recent years due to the development of
Community High Schools. Between 1995 and 2001, junior secondary enrollments almost tripled (from



                                                      - 14 -

about 6,500 to 17,000 students). This has relieved some of the enrolment pressures faced by this highly
competitive subsector; however, Government is now finding difficulty to finance staffing and basic
education materials for these schools. Another issue was that many of the schools developed using
Constituency Development Funds were very poorly constructed or not completed. The Ministry of
Education did not engage in quality assurance supervision of construction works. Therefore, in 2001, a
stay was placed in the development of new CHS.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Disbursements to the Solomon Islands were under suspension due to nonpayment of debt arrears between
September 30, 2001 and February 10, 2003. Although a new IDA-supported education project was
originally envisioned to build on the lessons learned from this operation, project preparation has been halted
for the moment.

The Education Strategy Paper, 2002-2004, partially financed under the Third Education and Training
Project, and the "Community Standard" financing paper will continue to serve as a constructive organizing
framework for the education sector as a whole, albeit they will be in need of further revision and updating.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Through two previous projects, the World Bank has had a continuous and healthy relationship with the
Solomon Islands' Government. As a result, the preparation team benefitted from a wealth of past
experience in working together with SIG to develop the country's education system. World Bank projects
have provided comprehensive support for primary and secondary education reform over the last two
decades. The Third Education and Training project built on the strategies and approaches espoused in the
previous Secondary Education Project.

The preparation team worked in close partnership with MEHRD in identifying investment priorities and
targeting mechanisms. A comprehensive set of background working papers (available in the project files)
were commissioned to inform project design. In addition, the Secondary Expansion Components, Teacher
Upgrading, and Curriculum and Materials components benefitted from the inputs of other international
partners. Implementation of project components were also conceived to align closely with other sectoral
initiatives being supported by bilateral donors.

As already discussed in Section 3.5, the project quality at entry has substantial shortcomings. In addition,
the project may have benefited from more extensive social assessments and beneficiary consultations. It
would have been advantageous to appraise apriori the demand and social expectations for some of the
proposed project interventions (for instance, in-service teacher capacity building schemes). Communities
could have also played a stronger role in all project-financed civil works, as later piloted in the Emergency
Cyclone and Rehabilitation Grants. Consequently, the Bank's performance at lending is rated as
unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

For most of the duration of the project, supervisory visits took place on a semi-annual basis. World Bank
supervisions were focused and methodical. Supervision reports are detailed, covering progress of project
components, identifying obstacles and proposing recommendations for action. Bank staff made concerted



                                                     - 15 -

efforts to assist the implementation team in overcoming difficulties and finding suitable alternatives for
action. During the post-conflict period, the Bank team mobilized quickly in response to SIG's request for
assistance so as to apply savings in currency realignments into an emergency school grants program that
was decentralized, targeted and community driven. PIRU staff describe their partnership with Bank staff
as "good, fruitful working relationships, sharing a genuine concern for the education sector."
A particular challenge for the local implementation staff, however, was the large turnover in the staff
composition of supervisory missions in the early years of the project (1993-1996). The lack of continuity
in personnel required having to repeatedly orient new task managers on project background and
implementation constraints.

A limitation in Bank supervision missions was that between March 1994 and June 1999, the Bank team did
not include an architect or relevant procurement staff to monitor the civil works financed by the project.
MEHRD had contracted a former Bank-staff as a procurement consultant during this period. Nonetheless,
Bank missions should have included their own procurement personnel. The Bank's performance at
supervision is rated as marginally satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank staff worked closely and cooperatively with MEHRD and other local and international partners.
They sought to best serve and respond to client needs, while providing technical assistance and advice. An
open dialogue and a trusting relationship led to a climate where significant policy changes were promoted.

However, there were also deficiencies in Bank performance. Project design was unfocused and did not take
into adequate consideration the instititutional capacity constraints of MEHRD. In light of the difficulties
experienced by the borrower during implementation, compounded by the deteriorating political and
socio-economic environment, the Bank should have restructured and simplified the project design during its
Mid Term Review. Frequent changes in task team leadership in the early years of the project hampered
continuity and responsiveness to client needs. Hence, the Bank's overall performance is rated as
unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

MEHRD demonstrated commitment and ownership during project preparation. During this period, the
Ministry of Education spearheaded two significant policy initiatives to change the secondary education
landscape in order to foster an enabling environment for the proposed project interventions. First, it sought
to formally unify the existing two-tiered secondary education system so as to make it more equitable.
Second, it adopted a "mixed mode" curriculum with the purpose of providing a unified and more relevant
secondary education academic program. The borrower's performance at lending is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Ministry of Education team made great efforts to see that project components were implemented on a
timely basis, but poor economic conditions caused cash flow problems leading to inevitable delays. This
situation represented a tremendous problem. Counterpart funds were not readily available and deferrals in
payments of Bank arrears led to repeated suspensions in disbursements. Unavailability of counterpart
funding greatly curtailed the progress, application and impact of project investments. Despite these
significant setbacks, project components were for the most part implemented as originally designed. All
legal covenants under the credit agreement, except for one with regards to annual budgetary review of the



                                                     - 16 -

sector, were complied with by project closing.

The Ministry of Education demonstrated strong leadership in two important reform areas: the development
of a new education financing formula that seeks to redress the historical bias in budgetary allocations
towards higher educational levels and the formulation of a comprehensive education sector strategy,
inclusive of teacher service reform needs among other themes.

The burden of project implementation rested largely on PIRU. Little involvement was fostered among other
Ministry line departments and education stakeholders. One significant skill missing in the project
implementation team or MEHRD was expertise in civil works. The Ministry of Works does have these
skills, but a fruitful collaboration between the two ministries did not develop. The borrower's
implementation performance is thus rated as unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

PIRU's management capacity to implement and monitor such a complex project grew slowly but steadily.
Changes in directorship and staff, however, interfered in capacity building efforts. During the initial stages
of the project, MEHRD personnel had little experience with procurement policies and procedures. PIRU
relied heavily on international consultants to carry out procurement activities, including contract
management and supervision. Many local staff who acquired some procurement knowledge left the civil
service due to low salary incentives. Although PIRU over time has gained some procurement experience,
capacity was a significant issue and will continue to be so for the future.

With regards to financial management, a manual was developed for a simple cash-based project account.
In general, the system adequately met Bank requirements for monitoring and administration. Whenever
discrepancies occurred, they were quickly corrected. Through the project, capacity on financial
management at the central government level was enhanced. Financial management capacity at the
provincial level remains weak. The performance of the implementation agency is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

MEHRD acted responsively throughout project implementation. Its capacity grew gradually, albeit
significant challenges still exist. In the future, greater attention ought to be paid to monitoring and
evaluation activities, which may have helped to swiftly identify and resolve some implementation problems
experienced in this project. Yet, a significant predicament remains. The poor national macroeconomic
context and unstable socio-political environment represent a hefty impediment to project progress. The
borrower's overall performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Community involvement and participation. Communities can act as a tremendous catalyst for change
    and growth. The swift expansion of Community High Schools throughout the country proved that with
    little resources and great commitment communities can mobilize forcefully to increase and improve
    social service delivery opportunities for their children. Similarly, the experiences with the Emergency
    Cyclone and Rehabilitation Grants showed that communities can play a key role in needs identification,
    contracting, administration, management and supervision of local initiatives, such as civil works,
    leading to swifter responsiveness, improved implementation and greater cost-effectiveness.

l Matching project design to institutional capacity. A disconnect existed between the complexity of the




                                                       - 17 -

  project design and MEHRD institutional capacity for implementation. A more focused project, with
  adequate provisions for capacity building and institutional strengthening, would have eased
  implementation and the achievement of development objectives. This was also the case for
  procurement processes and procedures. Solomon Islands is a small state, with few local industries and
  limited material resources and institutional capacity. The complex nature of standard Bank operational
  procurement processes and procedures imposed a significant burden on the country. Simpler
  procedures (such as international shopping or community contracting for civil works) would have been
  more suitable in this country context.

l Central programs vs. local initiatives to enhance educational quality. The educational system of the
  Solomon Islands is highly centralized. Yet, schools are often in remote areas and isolated from the
  national capital. While past initiatives have tried to spearhead national programs, investments
  oftentimes do not reach the intended beneficiaries. A new paradigm is required that empowers and
  increases the capacity for decentralized management and administration.

      o There is a need to strengthen the role of Education Authorities in tending to the specific needs of
      schools and addressing local educational challenges. This may be an increasing imperative as the
      movement towards furnishing provinces with greater political autonomy gains momentum.

      o In-service teacher education has traditionally been provided through formalized, face-to-face
      instruction in residential courses at SICHE. This is a high-cost approach that limits the number of
      participants who can benefit. Capacity building opportunities could be brought closer to schools
      and teachers, either through distance learning or localized implementation arrangements.

      o In the case of textbooks and educational materials that are centrally procured, close attention
      must be devoted to developing suitable and reliable distribution networks.

l Behavioral change is a long-term process. Sustained capacity building efforts are necessary to bring
  about lasting change in schooling practices. Short one-off training opportunities can raise awareness
  or provide a general introduction to a new set of skills. But in order to realize a transformation in
  classroom or school management practices, systemic support networks, sufficient resources and
  appropriate incentive schemes are critical for observable differences in performance to take place. For
  example, a two-week training program cannot be expected to produce lasting change, without adequate
  follow-up and resourcing to monitor and support the putting into practice of newly acquired skills.

l Greater integration to Ministry line agencies and across Ministries. PIRU had the mandate to
  implement this large and complex project. This was a herculean effort that stretched the minimal
  resources of the unit, oftentimes leaving little time to dedicate to other responsibilities, such as its
  planning and research functions. Greater involvement and participation from other MEHRD line
  agencies and other Ministries (Ministry of Health and Medical Services, Ministry of Works) could
  have reduced some of the work overload of PIRU as well as fostered greater ownership and capacity
  building opportunities throughout the Ministry of Education. This process was initiated and well
  received during the development of the education sector plan in 1999-2000 (prior to the civil conflict
  period) and later during the formulation of the Education Strategic Plan, 2000-2002. Since the project
  multisectoral it could have also benefitted from more collaboration with the Ministries of Health and
  Medical Services and the Ministry of Works.

l The relevance of sectoral monitoring. During the 1990s, the primary education system suffered




                                                    - 18 -

      considerable setbacks. A greater proportion of primary school-aged children than previously forseen
      were estimated to be out-of-school, while student achievement levels suffered a considerable decline.
      Only in the last year of the project, during the formulation of the sector-wide Education Strategic Plan,
      did these critical issues become apparent. A greater focus on sector-wide monitoring and evaluation
      during the life of the project would have enabled greater prioritization and proactivity to respond to
      emergent needs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The content of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was discussed on May 26, 2003 with Mr.
Barnabas Anga (Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education of the Solomon Islands) during the Third
Pacific Region Education Donors Meeting in Nadi, Fiji. Mr. Anga officially communicated that
Government concurred with the overall assessment of this ICR.

Below is an extract of the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report. The full document can be
found in the project files.

Project Impact

Quantitative goals were met for most part of the project. Enrolments increased from 7,160 in 1993 to 23,117 in 2001
though major increase was due to opening up of numerous Community High Schools. The pilot project on day
schools was an incentive to communities. The side benefit was that communities had taken onboard the initiatives
developed for the piloting of the five day junior secondary schools under the project, to establish additional community
high schools at their own cost.

Although this effort had helped to meet the demand for secondary education, the quality of these CHS is a concern.
One of the objectives was to increase community participation. However, during the implementation stage, there was
no strong support from the communities and there was a high dependence on the project. With the completion of the
pilot schools, communities have taken over the role of maintaining them. This transfer of role could have been more
readily accepted had the communities been more involved from the beginning.

One of the issues in the sector was the shortage of secondary places. While the targets in the SAR were achieved,
the demand for secondary places is still an issue. For instance, in year 2000, a total of 8,992 class 6 pupils sat for the
Secondary Entrance Examination and about 3,998 pupils did not have places in secondary schools. The issue on
curriculum and teacher shortages were not resolved. The growth of community high schools has been ad hoc with
little planning resulting in inequitable distribution of schools in the country. The success of community high schools
has also put more pressure to the government to equip these schools with adequate curriculum and educational
materials, qualified trained teachers and their salaries.

The objective to develop and produce primary curriculum materials was partially achieved. With the provision of a
long-term TA under ODA/UK, only class 1-3 English and Mathematics and teachers guides were developed and
produced due to lack of provision of local counterparts by SIG. The materials developed by teachers and CDC staff
are of high quality and appropriate for local conditions. However, schools need to have proper storage so that these
books/materials can last longer.

The issue of teacher shortage was not met. While there is adequate supply in lower levels, there is still the need for
teachers in the upper levels. The objective to upgrade teachers to degree level was not satisfactory to supply the
demand and to reduce the dependence on expatriate teachers. Implementation started very late in1997, which was a
year before the original closing date of December 31st 1998 and as a result the project only funded one year of study.



                                                             - 19 -

The project unit was not in a position to review funding because of the near completion date and those continued had
to be transferred to SIG. This was coupled with the unpreparedness of sponsored trainees who could not cope with
the academic demands and dedication the programs required.

The Emergency rehabilitation grant is an additional component to utilize the savings from the project. The
administration and implementation of the grant was based on the operation manual developed in conjunction with the
Ministry of Education. Funds were disbursed to the Education Authority Grant Management Committees and schools.
Management problems were encountered especially with Guadalcanal Province and with the post ethnic situation, it
was even more difficult to monitor the progress in Guadalcanal schools. Given the short implementation period for
the grant, progress was more than satisfactory in the majority of schools. Lesson learned from the grant program is
that schools and education authorities can manage education provisions given good coordination and monitoring
from the central ministry. It is also equally important that the consultation process does not stop at the provincial level
but must reach the school and community level.

The experience and knowledge gained from the project is enormous. The staff and the Ministry had better
understanding of both international and local procedures in the areas of procurement, finance, and contract
management. These knowledge and experiences had better equipped the Ministry for future projects

Project Sustainability

Over the past years, funding to schools had declined while, on the other hand, there was a corresponding rise in
student enrolments. The current economic crisis in the country has made it difficult for communities, education
authorities and the government to be able to sustain schools. The main concerns here relate to the operation and
maintenance of school buildings and facilities. Schools are affected by the inadequate operation grant from the
government, often resulting in suspension of classes and closing of schools. Because of geographical factors, the
country is highly dependent on boarding schools for secondary education. This has resulted in high boarding costs
and limited assistance for instructional materials and development activities. The government has therefore
encouraged the development of day Community High schools. However, there is still some boarding involved in these
schools. Financial contribution from parents is mainly through school fees and assisting schools with fund-raising
activities. The community support is enormous if communities are involved in the whole process of planning and
management of schools. This is evident in the pilot project of the five day junior secondary schools under the project.
There was not enough consultation and awareness programs with the communities and provincial authorities so there
was no strong support for the project schools. Community high schools have expanded dramatically over the past
five years because of the demand for secondary education. Communities have established these schools to enable
their children have access to secondary education. However, the difference between these schools and the project
schools is that the project schools have quality facilities and fully equipped specialised classrooms with good staff
housing which is an incentive to qualified teachers, while the community established schools are poorly equipped with
no proper buildings required for secondary schooling.

To ensure sustainability, Government has accepted the financial sustainability Plan developed under the project. This
plan ensures that all stakeholders have obligations to fulfil in funding the schools as well as ensuring the equitable
allocation of funds. The proposed Community Standard formula establishes the level of spending necessary for
effective instruction in schools, and help establish the responsibilities of each stakeholder. The community standard
sets the level of non-teacher cost and it is based on level, not type, of school. It sets the targets for the government
subsidies and the contribution required from the schools, communities and education authorities

There is however, a need for realistic boarding cost to include in the formula. The implementation of this financial plan
will require more consultation and awareness programs with schools, communities, education authorities and
government ministries. This will help to establish interventions, both at the national and school levels, for those who
cannot afford to pay fees.



                                                            - 20 -

The recent social unrest on Guadalcanal has given implications on future development in the Education sector.
Schools in Honiara are generally seen as better equipped with resources, facilities and trained teachers while rural
schools are poor. In addition, post-secondary training is only available in the capital. This has attracted the movement
of students to the capital in search for better learning. Future directions will have to be focused at the provincial and
village levels so that there is equitable provision of education services. This will encourage the participation of the
provincial governments and communities.

The move towards state governments is also another issue for consideration. This could lead to redefining the roles
and responsibilities of the states and the central government. It is important to strengthen provincial authorities in
their ability to manage education provision not only because they manage the majority of schools but also to ensure
that funds allocated for the education sector are spent for education purposes so that goals in quality education and
equitable education services are achieved and sustained. This capacity building will involve recruiting of qualified staff
and strengthening and imposing of financial procedures and regulations.

The World Bank's Performance

The Unit appreciated the advice and technical assistance given through Supervision Missions. However, it would be
most helpful if there was continuity among mission personnel. During the lifetime of the project there was a frequent
change of task managers as well as team members coming for supervision. Each time they had to be oriented with
the project backgrounds, implementation constraints relating to the local situation. Despite the lack of continuity in
mission personnel, the Bank staff and the unit staff had established good, fruitful working relationships sharing a
genuine concern for the education sector.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Access to Educational Services                                      1990       2001
Primary School Enrollments--Total                                 57,720     82,275
Primary School Enrollments--Girls % of Total Enrollment              45%        45%
Estimated Primary Gross Enrollment Rates (1992-1998)*                90%        97%
Secondary School Enrollments--Total                                5,636     23,117
Secondary School Enrollments--Girls % of Total Enrollment            37%        43%
Senior Secondary School Enrollments                                1,099      5,854
Senior School Enrollments--Girls % of Total Enrollment               26%        37%
Number of Secondary Schools                                            23       121
*Primary gross enrollment rates peaked in 1995 at 99%.



Educational Quality                                                 1993       1999
PILL Grade 4 Mean Score Literacy                                     3.03       2.29
PILL Grade 4 Mean Score Numeracy                                     3.34       3.00
Transition Rate from Grade 6 to Form 1 (1992)                       25%        40%

Teacher Supply and Qualifications                                   1991       2001
Primary--Total Trained Teachers                                    1,759      2,200
Primary--Total Untrained Teachers                                    629        500
Secondary--Total Number of Teachers                                  364        850

Education Finance                                                   1994       1998
% of National Budget to Education                                 11.89%     9.74%
Budget Allocation to Primary Level                                42.90%     36.80%

Nursing                                                             1992       2001
Nurse candidates enroll in SICHE School of Nursing (Year 1)           30         50




                                                        - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           Appraisal         Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                            Estimate            Estimate               Appraisal
                            Component                                     US$ million          US$ million
 Secondary Education Expansion                                                 6.80                   8.76                   129
     Upgrading of 8 Provincial Secondary Schools
     Construction of 5 village Junior Secondary Schools
 Teacher Upgrading                                                             0.30                   0.38                   127
 Curriculum and Materials                                                      2.50                   1.81                    72
 Nurses' Training                                                              2.40                   2.28                    95
 Staff Development                                                             0.40                   0.18                    45
 Project Management and Studies                                                1.30                   1.13                    87
 Emergency Cyclone Relief                                                      2.00                   3.81                   191
 Emergency Rehabiliation Grants*                                               0.00                   0.56


 Total Baseline Cost                                                          15.70                  18.91
  Physical Contingencies                                                       1.10
  Price Contingencies                                                          2.00
                              Total Project Costs                             18.80                  18.91
                        Total Financing Required                              18.80                  18.91
Project costs include IDA-financed portion (total US$17.11 million) and the counterpart funding provided by SIG.
* Emergency rehabilitation grants were provided using saving from currency realignments at the end of the project in response
to the post-conflict period.




                                                           - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                        9.10          0.00           0.00            0.00         9.10
                               (8.60)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.60)
2. Goods                        0.70          0.40           1.40            0.00         2.50
                               (0.60)         (0.40)        (1.30)           (0.00)      (2.30)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           3.20            0.80         4.00
Technical Assistance           (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.20)           (0.00)      (3.20)
  Training
  Studies
4. Project Management           0.00          0.00           1.20            0.00         1.20
and Incremental Operating
Costs
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.80)           (0.00)      (0.80)
5. Cyclone relief:              0.20          1.60           0.20            0.00         2.00
   Civil Works                 (0.20)         (1.60)        (0.20)           (0.00)      (2.00)
   Equipment, educational
   materials, textbooks
   and school supplies
6.  Grants                      0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00         0.00
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                       10.00          2.00           6.00            0.80         18.80
                               (9.40)         (2.00)        (5.50)           (0.00)      (16.90)




                                           - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                8.28               0.00              0.00             0.00              8.28
                                       (8.28)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (8.28)
2. Goods                                1.90               0.00              0.00             0.00              1.90
                                       (1.90)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.90)
3. Services                             3.40               0.00              0.00             0.00              3.40
Technical Assistance                   (3.40)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.40)
  Training
  Studies
4. Project Management                   0.00               0.00              0.16             0.00              0.16
and Incremental Operating
Costs
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.16)            (0.00)           (0.16)
5. Cyclone relief:                      0.00               2.80              0.00             0.00              2.80
    Civil Works                        (0.00)             (2.80)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.80)
    Equipment, educational
    materials, textbooks
    and school supplies
6.  Grants                              0.00               0.00              0.56             0.00              0.56
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.56)            (0.00)           (0.56)
   Total                                13.58              2.80              0.72             0.00             17.10
                                       (13.58)            (2.80)            (0.72)            (0.00)           (17.10)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 25 -

Figure 1. Disbursement Summary (in millions)




                                            - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/1992                    5    1 Education Planner, 2 Education
                                             Specialists, 1 Architect, 1
                                             Economist

              11/1991                   4    1 Education Planner, 2 Education
                                             Specialists, 1 Medical Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1992                   7    1 Education Planner, 2
                                             Economists, 1 Medical
                                             Specialist, 2 Education
                                             Specialists, 1 Lawyer

 Supervision
              3/2001                    3    1 Economist, 1 Education              S               S
                                             Specialist, 1 Procurement
                                             Specialist
              12/2000                   3    1 Economist, 1 Education              S               S
                                             Specialist, 1 Procurement
                                             Specialist
              3/2000                    3    1 Education Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Education Consultant, 1
                                             Procurement Specialist
              11/1999                   2    1 Education Specialist, 1             S               U
                                             Financial Management Specialist
              06/1999                   4    1 Education Specialist; 1             S               S
                                             Economist, 1 Education
                                             Consultant, 1 Financial
                                             consultant
              08/1998                   3    1 Education Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Education Consultant, 1
                                             Economist
              02/1998                   2    1 Education Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Education Consultant
              08/1997                   3    1 Educator, 1 Economist, 1
                                             Education Consultant
              11/1996                   3    2 Education Specialists, 1            S               S
                                             Nursing Specialist
              05/1996                   2    1 Education Specialist, 1             S               S
                                             Education Consultant
              09/1995                   2    2 Education Consultants               S               S
              07/1994                   1    1 Education Specialist                S               S
              03/1994                   3    1 Economist, 1 Architect, 1           S               S
                                             Education Specialist
              10/1993                   2    2 Consultant Education                S               S
                                             Specialists



                                              - 28 -

 ICR
               11/2002                2     1 Education Specialist, 1          S    S
                                            Procurement Specialist
               09/2001                2     1 Education Specialist, 1          S    S
                                            Procurement Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         198,042
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        597,863
  ICR
  Total                                                              795,905




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents

l  Staff Appraisal Report
l  Working Papers for the Third Education Project Vol. I and II
l  Memorandum and Recommendation of the International Development Association to the Executive Directors
l  Back to Office Report for Identification/Preparation Mission dated 12/2/91
l  Back to Office Report for Health & Population Mission (Nurse Training) dated 12/13/91
l  Terms of Reference for Project Preparation dated 4/23/92
l  Back to Office Report for Identification/Preparation Mission dated 7/5/92
l  Back to Office Report for Appraisal Mission dated 12/4/92
l  Minutes of the Yellow Cover Review Meeting dated 12/28/93
l  Terms of Reference for Negotiation Mission dated 3/8/93
l  Minutes of Negotiations dated 3/26/93
l  Summary of Negotiations dated 4/6/93
l  Initial Implementation Summary Report (form 590) dated 8/27/93
l  Back to Office Report for Project Launch dated 11/2/93 Bernard Masters
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 4/5/94: Susan Hirshberg
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 9/14/94: Donald Hamilton
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 10/8/94: A. de Guzman
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 9/11/95: Peter Morrison
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 6/27/96: A. de Guzman
l  Mid Term Review Report dated 10/23/96 prepared by IPU
l  Mid Term Review Mission Report dated 2/4/97: Rozany Deen
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 9/15/97: Rozany Deen
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 3/12/98: Rozany Deen
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 9/15/98: Rozany Deen
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 6/29/99 : Rozany Deen
l  Supervision /Progress Report dated 6/29/00 : Rozany Deen
l  Back to Office Report dated 10/29/99: Carol Ball
l  Supervision Report dated 12/14/99: Rozany Deen
l  Supervision Package dated December 2000: Rekha Menon
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 04/01/2001: Rekha Menon
l  Supervision Mission Report dated 09/11/2001: Luis Benveniste
l  Back to Office Report for Financial Management Mission dated 10/27/01: Junxue Chu

Project Documents

l  Development Credit Agreement
l  Progress Report by Pindeke Holdings Architects: August 1993
l  Preliminary Studies on Nursing and Midwifery Curriculum, University of Technology, Sydney: October 1993
l  Quarterly Report by IPU Mid April 1994
l  Quarterly Progress Report, Mid April to End August 1994
l  Advanced Diploma in Teaching (Secondary), Charles Stuart University: April 1994
l  Quarterly Report for January to March 1995
l  The Construction of Rural Health Facilities: Temotu and Makira Ulawa Provinces, Nigel Wakeham:
   November 1995
l  Secondary Curriculum Development Policy Assignment, Julian Treadaway: July 1996
l  Mid Term Review Report on Nursing Component: November 1996
l  Quarterly Report January to April 1997
l  Quarterly Report May to July 1997
l  Education Policy and Administrative Handbook for Ministry of Education (including Primary School Head



                                                     - 32 -

  Teachers' Manual and Finance Manual for Schools: February 1997
l Report on Rural Training Centers: August 1997
l Review of Curriculum & Continuing Education at the School of Nursing & Health Studies, Queensland
  University of Technology: December 1997
l Progress Report September 1997 to January 1998
l Inspectorate Development Program (with Annexures), W.D. Scott International Development Consultants:
  1998
l Report on The SI School Certificate, Kerapuke Toben: 1999
l Community High Schools, Implementation Specialist, Nigel Wakeham: January 1999
l Implementation Specialist's Report, Nigel Wakeham: February 2000
l Solomon Islands Primary and Secondary Education: A Community Standard for School Financing, Ken
  Gannicott: February 2000
l Curriculum Report No. 1/2, Janet Davy: March 2000
l SI: Proposed Basic Education in Community Schools Project, Judith Parker: May 2000
l Implementation Specialist's Report, Nigel Wakeham: February 2001
l Report on a Human Resources Strategic Plan for Solomon Islands, Hassall & Associates: July 2001
l Examinations and Assessment in the Solomon Islands, Warwick Elley: July 2001
l Examinations and Assessment Systems in the Solomon Islands Education System, School Support Services:
  July 2001
l Review of Curriculum in the Context of Basic Education Needs: August 2001
l A Review of the Non Formal Vocational and Community Education and Training in the Solomon Islands,
  Sura & Associates: September 2001
l Teacher Education and Training Report, John Pettit: October 2001
l Education Strategic Plan, 2002-2004
l Implementation Completion Report (including data tables), Ministry of Education and Human Resource
  Development: 2002

Additional References

l Kabutaulaka, T. (1998). Pacific Islands Stakeholder Participation in Development: Solomon Islands.
  Washington, DC: The World Bank
l Geoffrey Coyne and Mark Bray (1999). "External Aid and Education in Small States: Structural Issues, and
  Insights from a World Bank Assisted Project in Solomon Islands." Asia Pacific Journal of Education, 19(1),
  pp. 31-43.
l Ministry of Education (2000). EFA 2000: Solomon Islands Country Report
l Ministry of Education (2001). Solomon Islands National EFA Plan of Action
l DfID (2001). Primary Education Development Project II: Joint Mid Term Review.




                                                  - 33 -

- 34 -

