CREDIT NUMBER 2500 SOL
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education and Training Project)
between
SOLOMON ISLANDS
and
INdTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated !  e     ba 1A, 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2500 SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     e-o 4AudoSA     6Le     , 1993, between
SOLOMON ISLANDS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, hias requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "4EHRD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Human Resources Development;
(b) "SICHE" means the Solomon Islands College of Higher
Education;
(c)  "IPU" means the    Implementation  and  Planning  Unit
established and operating within MEHRD; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million two hundred th,usand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central
Bank of Solomon Islands on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) frm the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the raspLctive dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restri3tions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Botrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2003 and ending March 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of t>t increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of ir,.trest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-4-
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through MEHRD, carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and financial
praUtices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or


﻿agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at    least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts. and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  acc,ounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in


﻿-6-
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 26
Honiara, Solomon Islands
Telex:
76966337


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex:
248423 (RCA),
82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
s                e4t.e.r  NoY-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             SDR Eguivalent)    to be Financed
1.    Civil works              5,700,000       95%
2.    Equipment,               1,500,000       100% of foreign
educational                              expenditures;
materials,                                100% of local
textbooks,                               expenditures
school supplies                          (ex-factory
and furniture                            cost) and 70% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
3.    Technical                1,200,000       100%
assistance
(including
professional
services for
civil works)
4.    Training                   900,000       100%
5.    Studies                    100,000       100%
6.    Project management         600,000       100% FY 1993
and incremental                          and 1994,
operating costs                          70% FY 1995
and 1996,
30% FY 1997
and 1998


﻿-9-
7.    Cyclone relief
under Part F of
the Project:
(a) Civil works         1,300,000        100%
(b) Equipment,            100,000        100% of foreign
educational                          expenditures;
materials,                            100% of local
textbooks,                            expenditures
and school                            (ex-factory
supplies                             cost) and 70%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
8.    Unallocated                800,000
TOTAL              12,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "Project management and incremental operating
costs" means:
(i) the additional administrative expenditures in
relation to the management of the IPU, inter alia, (A)
office supplies and equipment maintenance of the IPU,
(B) local travel costs and per diem for IPU staff, and
(C) salaries and allowances for the IPU princi-pal
accountant;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) the amounts representing increases in the operating
costs of the secondary schools under Part A of the
Project not covered by the school fees;
(iii) the amounts representing increases in the
operating costs of the School of Nursing and Health
Studies under Part D of the Project not covered by the
school fees;
(iv) operation and maintenance of the vehicles under
Part D (i) and (ii) of the Project;
(v) travel costs, off-campus lodging and allowances for
nurses under Part D (ii) of the Project; and
(vi) salaries and allowances for the additional SICHE
staff under Part D (iii) of the Project; and
(d) the acronym   "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each calendar
year.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000
equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (3) and (6) of the
table in paragraph I of this Schedule, on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1993;
(b) under Categories 1, 2 and 3 of the table in paragraph 1.
above for the: (i) expansion and renLvation of the secondary school
under Part A of the Project located at Choiseul Bay (Choiseul
province); and (2) junior secondary students facilities under Part
A (ii) of the Project to be located at the existing primary schools
in Gwaidinale (Malaita province), Honiara (Honiara Municipal
Authority) and Santa Ana (Makira province), until the Borrower has
entered into arrangements satisfactory to the Association to secure
all land and rights in respect of land required for carrying out
such Parts of the Project, and has furnished to the Association
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for such purposes; and


﻿- 11 -
(c) under Category 7 of the table in paragraph 1. above until
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association:
(i) pursuant to the school selection criteria and
construction design set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, a list of schools to be
rehabilitated/reconstructed,  including   a  detailed
estimated costs per school, satisfactory to the
Association; and
(ii) evidence satisfactory to the Association that the
Borrower has secured all land and rights in respect of
land required for carrying out Part F of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(a) enhancing: (i) the quality of its educational system, and
equitable access to secondary education; (ii) the training and
supply of nurses; and (iii) the efficiency and management of its
educational system; and (b) its efforts to reconstruct the primary
schools damaged by Cyclone Nina.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:
(i) Expansion and renovation of about eight existing secondary
schools (grades 7 through 11), located at the provinces of Malaita,
Choiseul, Isabel, Temotu, Western and Guadalcanal, including
workshops,   science  laboratories,   furniture  and   equipment,
construction of boarding places and staff housing, and provision of
technical assistance; and
(ii) Construction of new facilities at five existing primary
schools located at Gwaidinale (Malaita province), Honiara (Honiara
Municipal Authority), Santa Ana (Makira province), Gizo (Western
province) and Nguvia (Guadalcanal province) to accommodate, on a
pilot basis, low-cost day junior secondary students (grades 7
through 9), including workshops, science laboratories, furniture and
equipment, construction of staff housing, and provision of technical
assistance.
PART B:
Carrying out of an advanced diploma program at SICHE aimed at
developing a cadre of senior secondary teachers, including required
fellowships, construction and furnishing of two staff houses, and
provision of technical assistance.
PART C:
Provision of educational materials, textbooks and school
supplies at the primary and secondary education levels, and of
curriculum development for primary education, including the carrying


﻿-13-
out of in-service training of primary teachers in their effectiv&
use, the construction and equipping of a warehouse for storiig
educational materials, and the provision of a 3-ton transportation
vehicle.
PART D:
Enhancing SICHE's current nurses training program through:
(i) the re-modelling and refurbishing of the facilities at
the existing School of Nursing and Health Studies at the Kukum
Campus of SICHE, including congtruction, equipping and furnishing of
about five additional classrooms, a demonstration room, a library,
administrative  offices,   staff  houses   and  student  boarding
facilities, and the provision of vehicles;
(ii)  the  provision   of  off-campus  lodging  facilities,
motorcycles and bicycles for the carrying out of the nurses training
program at selected hospitals and rural health facilities in
Guadalcanal and Malaita provinces; and
(iii) the provision of training and technical assistance for
staff development of the School of Nursing and Health Studies at the
Kukum Campus of SICHE.
PART E:
Carrying out of a program to improve efficiency and management
of the Borrower's education system, inter alia, by:
(i)   undertaking local and overseas training of MEHRD and
SICHE staff;
(ii) holding seminars and conferences;
(iii) developing a management policy handbook;
(iv) rationalization of MEHRD's budgeting and financial
planning procedures;
(v)   carrying out of studies to review student examination
and   assessment   procedures,   to   undertake   the
standardization of planning data, and to prepare future
education projects; and
(vi) provision of technical assistance.


﻿- 14 -
PART F:
Rehabilitation/reconstruction of classrooms and staff housing
at about 58 primary schools located in Guadalcanal, Makira and
Temotu provinces which were damaged/destroyed by the Cyclone Nina of
January  1993, including   provision  of  educational materials,
textbooks, equipment and school supplies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
ourrency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped into bid
packages each estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more.
Part B : Prefererd e for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Supply of construction materials for the rehabilitation/
reconstruction of primary schools under Part F of the Project, shall
to the extent practicable, be grouped into bid packages each
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, and shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Supply of construction materials
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost less than $25,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price


﻿- 16 -
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.    Labor and construction supervision of the civil works  for the
rehabilitation/reconstruction of primary schools under Part F of the
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Furniture may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Miscellaneous equipment and school supplies in packages
estimated each to cost less than $25,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, and printing and
distribution of educational materials and textbooks estimated to
cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association; provided, however, that educational materials not
to exceed 1,000 copies per contract may be printed and distributed
by the Curriculum Development Center of MEHRD, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Proprietary curriculum materials and textbooks may be procured
directly from publishers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or more, and with respect to all contracts for
the supply of materials, labor and construction supervision of the
civil works under Part F of the Project, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to


﻿- 17 -
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10 % is hereby spec4Iied for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation, reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $10,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to the amendments of contracts raising the contract value
to $10,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through E of the Project
in accordance with action plans, educational performance indicators
and implementation schedules satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall carry out Part F of the Project in
accordance with school selection criteria and construction designs
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall maintain the IPU headed by an experienced
and qualified officer, and vest it with such responsibilities, funds
and qualified staff, including an education planner, a principal
accountant, an implementation officer, and a procurement officer, as
shall be required to enable the IPU to undertake the overall
coordination of the Project.
4.    By October 15, 1993 and thereafter by October 15 of each year,
the Borrower shall carry out annual budgetary and formula based unit
cost reviews to strengthen the financing of its education system,
and, thereafter, exchange views with the Association on the findings
and recommendations thereof.
5.    By October 15, 1993 and thereafter by October 15 of each year,
the Borrower shall carry out an overall annual secondary school
teachers demand and supply analysis aimed at identifying the subject
teachers needs in secondary schools, and thereafter, take all such
action, satisfactory to the Association, to adequately address such
needs.
6.    By October 15, 1993, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, a proposed staff
development training program for MEHRD and SICHE to commence on
January 15, 1994, and thereafter, taking into account the
Association's comments, implement such training program.
7.    By October 15, 1994 and thereafter by October 15 of each year,
the Borrower shall carry out annual reviews to assess Project
implementation, and thereafter, inform the Association of the
results of such reviews.


﻿- 19 -
8.    By June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to adopt and thereafter implement replenishment
and distribution procedures for educational materials, satisfactory
to the Association.
9.    By January 1, 1994, the Borrower shall: (a) appoint a
representative from the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Medical
Services to the SICHE Council; and (b) create as a committee of the
SICHE Council a nurse advisory committee, with membership and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association, to review, on an
annual basis, the training needs and skills of the different
categories of nurses, and thereafter, advise SICHE accordingly.
10.   By May 1, 1994, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its review and comments, proposed arrangements for the carrying
out of the off-campus nurse training program under Part D (ii) of
the  Project,   including  lodging   arrangements  therefor,  and
thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments,
implement such arrangements.
11.   Pursuant to Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the
Borrower shall employ, inter alia, the following consultants for the
following periods:
(a)   by  November  1, 1993, management    and  procurement
consultants for an aggregate period of about three staff years; and
(b)   by February 1, 1994, architectural consultants for an
aggregate period of about two staff years.
12.   The Borrower shall carry out a mid-term review of Project
implementation, and by October 15, 1996, inform the Association on
the results of such review.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from, time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
repl -enishment is requested.  On the basis of
each such request, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower,     withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.


﻿- 22 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional eviderce as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.      Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant    provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


