Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
RepotNo. P-5071-UR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$140 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MAY 16, 1989
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by rediplents only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not othewise be disclosed witout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 30, 1988)
US$1 - NUr$451
NU$1.0 - US$0.00222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                      10,000m2     a   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)      X     100 ha
1 metric ton                  -     1,000 kg
1 kilogram                    =     2.2 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APE     -  Government Railway Company
ALADI   - Latin American Integration Association
ANCAP   -  Government Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement Company
ANTEL   -  Government Telecommunications Company
BCU     -  Central Bank of Uruguay
BHU     - Government Mortgage Bank
BPS     -  Social Security Bank
BROU    -  Bank of the Republic of Uruguay (Banco Repeblica)
CIAT    -  Interamerican Center for Tax Administration
CINVE   -  Economic Research Center
DGIA    -  General Directorate for Aeronautical Infrastructure
DGSS    -  General Directorate for Social Security
GATT    -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
IDB     -  Interamerican Development Bank
ILPE    -  Government Fishing Company
IMF     -  International Monetary Fund
MYRA    - Multiyear Rescheduling Agreement
OPP     -  Office of Planning and Budget
OSE     -  Government Water Company
PLUNA   -  National Airline Company
TAL     -  Technical Assistance Loan
UTE     -  Government Power Company



FOR OFFICL4L USE ONLY
Table of Conterts
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ....................................                           i
PART I - THE ECON01XY ........................................                          1
A.   Background .......................................                        1
B.   Restructuring the Economy ........................                        2
C.  Recent Progress Under the Adjustment Program .....                         4
PART II - THE GOVE1J2MENT S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM ..............                          7
A.   The 1986-89 Development Program  ....                 .............       7
B.   Relations with the IMF ...........................                        8
C.   The SAL I Program ................................                        8
PART III - GOVERUMNT PROGRAM    1989-90 ....................... e
A.   Growth Prospects .................................                        9
B.   SAL II Program ...................................                      13
C.   Financial Sector Reform ..........................                      17
PART IV - OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS ........................                          30
PART V - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK OPERATIONS ...............    32
PART VT - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF ........................                          35
PART VII - RZCOMHENDATION ...................................                          35
STATISTICAL APPENDIX ........................................                          36
ANNEXES:
I.   Standard Attachments .................................                       48
II.   Supplementary Project Data Sheet .....................                        55
III.   Government's Development Policy Letter ...............                        57
IV.  SAL II Matrix ........................................                         74
V.   National Development Corporation Chapter .............                        86
VI.   Terms of Reference for New Executive Officers ........                        94
VII.   SAL I Program Results ................................                       103
VIII.   New Provisioning Rules ...............................                       106
IX.   Finance Sector Component Matrix ......................                      108
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowert            Republic of Uruguay
Amount:               US$140 million equivalent
Termst               Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Loan Description:    The proposed loan would support the Government's
medium-term Structural Adjustment and Development
Program, a program designed to increase exports and
promote domestic savings, so as to permit a sustained
recovery of economic growth and reduced unemployment
while strengthening the country's creditworthiness.
The main areas covered by the Government's program
ares (i) maintaining the macroeconomic framework
developed in the last few years, which includes, inter
alia, free market determination of interest rates, a
competitive floating exchange rate, freedom of
external current and capital transactions, almost
total absence of price controls, elimination of export
taxes with the exception of a 5 percent rate on raw
wool exports, and significant reductions in import
tariffs; (Li) a reduction of the public sector deficit
through substantial cuts in real expenditures together
with actions to improve social security finances and
streamline public enterprises operations.
(iii) improving public investment programming and
implementation; (iv) strengthening of prudential
regulations and Central Bank's supervision to maintain
the banking system solvent; (v) restructuring of
commercial banks in distress with a view to their
ultimate reprivatization; (vi) rationalizing the role
of the Banco Republica; and (vii) improving the legal
framework regulating commercial, corporate, and
productive activities as well as modernizing and
expediting judicial procedures.
lenefits:             The Structural Adjustment Program is expected to
result in higher levels of economic growth, export
earnings, employment, and savings, and to improve the
count:y's capacity to service its external debt. This
will strengthen the country's creditworthiness and
facilitate the resumption of voluntary commercial bank



- ii -
financing. Progress has been achieved already in the
last few years in reducing the ratio of external
indebtedness to GDP.
RLsks,                The principal risks relate to (i) implementation
difficulties that would hinder progress in reducing
the fiscal deficit, the strengthening of social
security finances, and the rehabilitation of the
financial sector; (ii) uncertainties on export
prospects, which could impair economic performance,
linked above all to uncertain access of Uruguayan
exports to the markets of developed countries and to
those of neighboring countries, which are adversely
affected by protracted financial and inflationary
crises, and (iii) availability of adequate financing
to sustain a reasonable rate of economic growth and
maintain the needed capacity to import required by
this growth.
Estimated
Divbureementss    Of the proceeds of the loan, US$70 million, would be
disbursed in two tranches of US$30 million equivalent
each. It is anticipated that the first tranche would
be disbursed upon loan effectiveness. The second
tranche would be released about 10 months after loan
effectiveness, subject to satisfactory performance
review. An additonal US$70 million is earmarked for
restructuring banks tied to the progress in such
restructuring according to agreed principles and
criteria, provided also that the macroeconomic and
adjustment progress is proceeding satisfactorily. It
is expected that disbursements under this component of
the loan vill be completed by November 30, 1989.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TEE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$140 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) to the Republic of Uruguay for
the equivalent of US$140 million. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
2.       An Economic Memorandum on Uruguay (Report No. 7424-UK)  ts circu-
lated to the Executive Directors in January 1989. A country brief was
distributed on November 15, 1988. Reports on Public Investment (Report No.
7030-UR) and Social Security (Report No. 7047-UR) were circulated to the
Board in May and June 1988, respectively.
3.       On June 16, 1987, the Executive Directors approved a US$80 million
SAL to Uruguay in support of the Government's medium-term adjustment
program. The Uruguayan authorities carried out the agreed policy actions,
and disbursement of the loan's second tranche took place in June 1988. The
Government requested a second SAL in September 1987 to assist it in
continuing its adjustment program until 1990. Four Bank missions visited
Uruguay in October 1987, and February, March and August 1988, respectively,
to assist in the preparation of the components of SAL II, including a
sector mission that reviewed the problems of the financial system. Based
on the findings of this mission, the Government requested assistance in
July 1988 to restructure the financial sector within the framework of SAL
II. Appraisal of the proposed loarn took place in November-December 1988.
The Government's structural adjustment program and specific policy actions
supported by the proposed Second Structural Adjustment Loan are summarized
in this report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
4.       Uruguay was a very prosperous country in the early part of the
twentieth century, following an outward-oriented strategy based on export-
ing livestock products (wool, beef). This growth model faltered in the
1930s when trade discrimination, protection, and competitive devaluations
prevailed. Uruguay turned to an import-substitution model; this strategy
was stimulated by the shortage of consumer goods during and after World
War II. The small domestic market offered limited opportunities for
import-substitution, which, as a source of growth, were exhausted by the
mid-1950s; moreover, the industrial sector that developed under the
protective umbrella was not competitive. Adverse external markets and a
welfare-oriented domestic economic and social environment further discour-
aged growth and stifled export production.   In the early 1970s, the
ensuing crisis forced the Government into a fundamental reappraisal of
Uruguay's macro strategy and policies.



-2-
B. Restruct4rinp the Economy
5.       The Adiustment Process:  1973-82.  Between 1973 and 1982, signifi-
cant efforts were made to open the economy and enhance the role of market
forces in resource allocation.  Major structural reforms were introduced in
fiscal, monetary, exchangi rate, tariff, and domestic pricing policies. A
substantial overhaul of the tax system reduced or eliminated distortions in
relative pr.ces between capital and labor, as well as those favoring import
substitution versus export activities.
6.       Import liberalization has been a major objective of Government
structural reform efforts since the early 1970s. Apart from the reduction
of maximum tariff rates and the number of rates of *e tariff schedule,
import qu-itas and licensing requirements were elimi,ted in 1975 and
controls un capital goods imports terminated in 1977. Exports were pro-
moted through preexport financing and tax exemptions and reimbursements.
Tax rebates were discontinued in 1983; exporters are now reimbursed only
for indirect taxes. Financial liberalization was also an important compon-
ent of the reform program. Exchange controls were eliminated, capital and
current transactions freed, foreign currency and secret deposits legalized,
ceilings on interest rates eliminated, credit allocation guidelines aboli-
shed, and legal barriers to the entry of new commercial banks removed.
Price controls also were progressively removed.
7.       The economy's response to these reforms was generally positive.
However, in 1978, the Government initiated a program to reduce inflation at
a faster pace through a system of preannounced exchange rates (the tablita)
combined with further reductions in protection to improve the competitive-
ness of industry.   Although the inflation rate dropped significantly, it
still remained substantially above the rate of devaluation. The policy
changes in the early 19808 attracted large capital inflows while the
Central Bank's legal reserve requirements were eliminated, prudential regu-
lations essentially dismantled, and supervision weakened.
8.       The tablita policy began to clash with the monetization induced by
the public deficit and easy credit. Devaluation rates below the prevailing
rates of inflation overvalued the peso and eroded the competitiveness of
exports, while import substitution activities fell owing to increased
imports. The combination produced record deficits in the balance of pay-
ments' current account, and the exchange rate policy became unsustainable.
Massive capital flight occurred and the Government had to resort to
unprecedented foreign borrowings to stem the loss of foreign exchange
reserves (Statistical Appendix, Table 1). The external public debt soared
from US$0.9 billion in 1979 to US$1.7 billion in 1982. In November 1982,
the Government changed course announcing that the exchange rate would be
fully determined by market forces, resulting in a nominal peso depreciation
of sonie 60 percent.
9.       The Recession of 1982-85.  The exchange rate developments
amplified the negative impact of the recessionary forces already at work in
late 1981. Policy inconsistencies led to a major depression, which lasted
until 1985. Real GDP declined over one-sixth during 1982-85 with
production dropping in all major sectors. Unemployment climbed from
6 percent in mid-1981 to 16 percent in mid-1983 and then gradually declined
to about 12 percent by end-1985. Real wages fell over 20 percent from end-
1981 to end 1984. Real exports of goods and nonfactor services increased



by about 10 percent but the dollar value decreased by 25 percent. The
value of imports dropped 50 percent, while the publi.c sector deficit
increased sharply. Inflation rekindled at the end of 1982, following the
devaluation. Prices rose by 52 percent over the course of 1983, 66 percent
in 1984, and 83 percent in 1985.
10.      Public Finance Reforms.  Efforts to bring public sector expendi-
tures under control and to increase its revenues had long been underway.
Public finances were in deficit throughout the 19609 and into the 19708.
During 1974-84, the Government made serious efforts to improve public
finances by gradually reducing fisca:. and parastatal deficits, combined
with redimensioning of the public sector's share in the national economy.
The overall deficit was reduced progressively from 6.8 percent of GDP in
1970 to a sLiall surplus in 1980. However, the depression of 1982-85 and
the negative consequences of some reforms in the social security system
undertaken in 1979 led to a sharp increase in the overall public sector
deficit (from 2.3 percent of GDP in 1981 to 18.4 percent of GDP in 1982,
and 16.4 percent in 1983), which required important revenue and expenditure
measures as well as tariff increases to bring down the deficit to 10 per-
cent in 1984. General Government expenditures were reduced from a peak of
30 percent if GDP in 1982 to 22 percent in 1985; the current deficit
declined accordingly from 5.6 percent of GDP in 1982 to 1 percent in 1985
and the nverall deficit from 10 percent to 3 percent.
11.      Financial Sector Reforms.  The number of private banks declined
steadily beginning in the 19609. In 1s63, there were 81 banks; 67 survived
the banking crisis of 1966. Thirty private banks remained in operation in
1971, of which five had been intervened by the Central Bank or Banco
Rep6blica. The number of banks ccntinued to decline in the 1970s and early
1980s because (i) too many were operating in the small market; and
(ii) they failed to adapt their lendifg practices to the new operating
environment created by the introduction of free market rules in the foreign
exchange and financial markets. Currently, Uruguay's comercial banking
system consists of 22 commercial banks, the state-owned Banco Repiblica
(BROU) and 16 banking houses (casas bancarias). Its most prominent
features are foreign ownership of 18 commercial banks and all the casas
bancarias.   Banco Repdblica controls the remaining four commercial banks
as a result of rescue operations undertaken when these banks became
insolvent in 1986-87.
12.      The most important change in the sector was the financial liberal-
ization policy inltiated in the early 1970s (para. 6). This reform, toge-
ther with the dismantling of Central Bank regulations and supervision, and
its subsequent withdrawal in 1979 from active management of the domestic
money supply, are key factors in explaining the protracted banking crisis
that followed the 1982 devaluation. Exchange, financial, and interest rate
policies encouraged producers to borrow heavily in dollars that were
readily available because of the inflow of dollar deposits from neighboring
countries. These policies also stimulated foreigners to speculate in
short-term financial assets (Statistical Appendix, Table 2).
13.      Banking difficulties began to mount in 1980-81 on account of:  a
drop.in beef prices, the collapse of a real estate boom, and reduced
Argentine import demand. Simultaneously, Uruguayan firms traditionally
highly leveraged because of negative interest rates encountered positive



- 4 -
rates in 1980, causing financial costs to increase sharply. The firms
which engaged in speculative activities and acquired overpriced assets
found themselves in an illiquid position. Commercial banks sought to
protect themselves from the coming devaluation by converting debtors'
obligations in pesos to dollar denominated debts. This and the flotation
of the peso in 1982 compounded the debt problem of the firms and creditor
banks. Many producers became insolvent and nonperforming loans grew in
the banks' portfolios.
14.      In response, the Central Bank first encouraged the commercial
banks to refinance debts of rural producers roughly constituting 30 percent
of the outstanding domestic debt in 1980-81. Second, it provided relief
funds to participating banks at below market rates in 1982, refinancing
NU$1,704 million in peso loans and US$346 million in dollar loans. Third,
the Central Bank absorbed a substantial portion of the losses of failing
banks in 1982-83. This operation resulted hi d awrtfolio purchase of
US$386  million covered with tl^S281 million in Treasury bonds and a cancel-
lation of previous Central Bank credit to these banks. Fourth, the Central
Bank purchased. mostly from the Uruguayan branches of several foreign
banks, portfolios in arrears for US$216 million in exchange for new dollar
loans in an amount equal to 2.5 times the face value of the actual
portfolio purchase. Local bankers, however, did not have the dollars
needed to participate and were left with significant bad loan portfolios.
15.      These actions not only did not fully resolve the debt situation
but, in fact, exacerbated it by creating the expectation of future bail-
outs for banks and debtors. The combination of positive real interest
rates and quickly multiplying debts, as the peso floated, virtually bank-
rupted numerous Zirms. Many firms sought the protection of concordatos (a
bankruptcy procedure). Others rolled over loans (at higher interest
rates), postponing the 'nevitable. Collection problems escalated.
Although in 1983 the Central Bank returned to more conventional practices
of reserve requirements, monetary regulation and supervision, prudential
control of the banks continued to be inadequate. Faced with the prospects
of massive bankruptcies, the military government decreed a debt moratorium
in 1984 (subsequently extended in steps to early 1986, when the 1985
refinancing law put an end to it).
C. Recent Progress Under the Adjustment Program
16.      The RecoverM:  1986-87.  The Sanguinetti administration, which
took office in March 1985, confronted a severe recession, rising inflation,
exter al debt service difficulties and the aforementioned serious financial
probier.s. The Government's first priority was to stabilize the economy,
and it reached agreement with the IMF on an 18-month Standby arrangement.
A second priority was debt restructuring in which the Government moved
forwazd with considerable success. A multiyear rescheduling agreement
(MYRA) was signed in July 1986 with the commercial banks providing relief
on about US$2.1 billion (some 70 percent of medium- and long-term outstand-
ing public debt) during 1985-89. A third priority was implementing a
medium-term development program aimed at restoring private sector confi-
dence and creating a favorable climate for export and investment growth.
The US$80 million SAL I supported the program.



17.      The stabilization and medium-term development program successfully
reinvigorated the economy, with the help of economic developments in Brazil
(1986) and Argentina (1987). In 1986-87, the economy enjoyed growth in GDP
and exports at an average 5.6 percent and 18 percent, respectively; a 25
percent drop in unemployment; increases in real wages of 5 percent (follow-
ing a 14 percent increase-in 1985) without undue strain on the economy
because of improved terms of trade; a drop in inflation from 83 percent in
1985 to 57 percent in 1987; and a reduction in the public sector deficit
(including Central Bank losses of 2.7 percent of GDP) to 4.1 percentage of
GDP, as opposed to 9.2 percent in 1984. The reduction of the public sector
deficit was 4A compliance with the agreements with the IMF and the SAL I
program. The Government successfully improved public finances through an
important tax revenue package, a social security reform, expenditure
restraint, and realistic priceltariff policies (Statistical Appendix.
Table 3).
18.      Monetary policy has been oriented towards the reduction of infla-
tion but is constrained by the small jeso monetary base and the large share
(over two-thirds) of dollar-denominated deposits and credits in the banks.
Another limitation is the weak financial position of the commercial banks
with substantial nonperforming loan portfolios. The Central Bank nonethe-
less successfully slowed the rate of monetary expansion. The 12-month rate
of growth of M-1 declined gradually from 100 percent at end-1985 to 67 per-
cent at end-1987 while M-2 fell from 90 percent to 57 percent.  In mid-
1987, the Central Bank, fearing an overheated economy, tightened credit
with deposit and lending rates rising accordingly. Nevertheless, total -
real credit to the private sector rose by 5 percent, mostly due to stepped-
up lending by Banco ReplTblica. Commercial banks, on the other hand, had
been reluctait to increase their exposure in the domestic private sector.
They concentrated on large private customers in certain economic sectors,
Government securities, and off-shore operations.
19.      Performance in 1988.  Uruguay's economic performance deteriorated
in 1988 with GDP growth estimated at about 0.5 percent, against a projected
4 percent, despite an 18 percent increase in export values. The lower-
than-expected growth performance is explained by: the contractionary
effect of the 1987 demand management measures; significantly fewer
Argentine tourists; protracted labor disputes in some important sectors;
and a severe drought, that affected the production of beef, fruits, and
vegetables.
20.      Inflation accelerated in 1988 reaching a 69 percent rate compared
to 57 percent in 1987. The main reasons were: (i) the higher food prices
resulting from the drought; (ii) higher electricity rates because the low
water level in the hydroelectric plants required more reliance on thermal
generation at higher cost-; and (iii) a slightly larger than targeted
fiscal deficit (4.5 percent of GDP against an estimated 3.7 percent),
which, when combined with a significant drawdown in the deposits of the
Mortgage Bank and the Central Bank, resulted in a significant expansion of
bank credit.
21.      Uruguay's demand management policies stopped the rising trend of
dollar imports (they grew by 21 percent in 1986 and 32 percent in 1987, but
only 3 percent in 1988). This strengthened significantly the 1988 balance
of payments, as exports continued expanding due mostly to very favorable



-6 -
international wool and rice prices. With export growth at about
18 percent, the 1988 trade surplus (FOB) was over US$250 million, compared
to US$109 million in 1987, thus averting a potential trade deficit for
1988. The price, however, has been high. The country has avoided a
prospective external imbalance and difficulties in servicing its external
debt at the cost of an untatisfactory growth rate (about 0.5 percent in
1988 compared to 7.5 percent in 1986 and 5.9 percent in 1987).
22.      Uruguay's debt strategy already has produced positive results.
Debt to GDP ratios peaked in 1986, initiating a downward trend that is
expected to continue in the next few years. The 1988 ratio is signifi-
cantly lower than that of 1986. Financial markets perceive this improve-
ment: Uruguay's debt discount in the secondary market is currently the
lowest in Latin America. Debt swaps have also been carried out. The
rescheduling of commercial banks' amortization in 1986, on account of Uru-
guay's good economic performance, was renegotiated in 1988. It now covers
payments due in 1990 and 1991, and extends the amortization period to
17 years (including 4 years of grace) at LIBOR plus 7/8. However, the
allocation of about 5 percent of GDP and a large share of domestic savings
for debt service still restricts the country's ability to ensure adequate
savings and investment.
Major Development Issues and Constraints to Growth
23.      These are:
(a) Uruguay's future growth depends on the expansion of
exports as an engine of growth and to pay for
imports and service the large external debt. Since
a worsening of the terms of trade is expected in
the next few years, this expansion would be highly
dependent on volume increases and open foreign
markets. The country relies heavily on:
*i) exports and tourism services supplied to
Argentina and Brazil, which are subject to unpre-
dictable, often erratic fluctuations; and (ii)
exports of agricultural products (e.g. wool, beef,
rice) which are subject to sharp price
fluctuations, uncertain markets, and competition
from heavily subsidized exports from developed
countries. With these uncertainties, higher than
usual foreign exchange reserves are required to
maintain creditworthiness and for debt service;
(b) the steady increase in export volumes depends on
increasing investments but national savings are
still low as a large share of domestic savings is
needed to pay interest on the external debt. In
this connection, the goal of a larger trade surplus
is desirable. It reflects an increase in domestic
savings, ard, at a given level of interest payments
on the external debt, greater national savings
available for investment. Without a healthy trade
surplus, the Government is forced to implement
contractionary policies to lower the GDP growth



- 7 -
rate and avoid a prospective external imbalance. A
healthy economy helps to retain domest4i savings
and attracts foreign deposits to the financial
center which the Government has tapped to increase
investment;
(c) the uncertainty about export earnings is compounded
by the volatility of capital movements with
Argentina and Brazil. The role of Montevideo as a
financial center requires Uruguay to keep greater
liquid foreign exchange reserves than those
required for import payments. Uruguay's needs are
those of a banker not a trader. It also requires
high interest rates to attract and keep dollar
deposits of nonresidents, a high price to be paid
for financing the capital formation needed for
long-term growth; and
(d)  public finances are a potential source of instabi-
lity despite significant Government containment
efforts. Social security is subject to the pres-
sures of an aging population, low gross repro-
duction rate, and high life expectancy at birth and
retirement. Social services were developed at a
time when Uruguay was in a better position to
absorb their costs. Now with a much weaker econo-
mic base and the need for fiscal deficit reduct-
ions, welfare benefits cannot be held at current
levels without additional revenues. Either invest-
ment and productivity rise significantly to compen-
sate for the adverse demographic trends or social
transfers must be modified.
PART II - THE GOVIRNHENT'S MEDTIM-TERM PROGRAM
A. The 1986-89 Development Pro8ram
24.      The i.overnment's medium-term development prcgram for 1986-89 has
embodied a consistent macroeconomic framework with important structural
reforms in key policy areas. the program recognizes that prospects for
sustained growth are linked closely to export growth, given the small
domestic market and the requirements of servicing Uruguay's large external
debt. The main components are: (i) an export promotion policy and incen-
tive framework that includes a floating and competitive exchange rate,
further rationalization of tariff protection. and a tax policy favoLing
exporting activities; (ii) stable policies to restore the confidence of the
private sector and promote growth and diversification of agriculture and
manufacturing; (iii) freedom of capital markets, interest rates, and foreign
exchange transactions, and the almost total absence of price controls;
(1v) measures intended to slow down inflation and maintain fiscal and
monetary discipline; (v) actions to modernize the public sector; and (vi) a
public investment program oriented to providing essential inputs and infra-
structure for private sector activities.



- 8 -
B.  Relations with the IMP
25.      On September 27, 1985, the Fund approved Uruguay's request for an
18-month stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 122.8 million or 75
percent of quota (50 percent on an annual basis), as well as a request for a
purchase under the compensatory financing facility in the amount of SDR 66.1
million or 40 percent of quota. Uruguay's performance under the stwnd-by
arrangement was satisfactory and all the purchases were made under that
arrangement. Following the expiration of the stand-by arrangement on July
27, 1987, the Fund approved for Uruguay the procedures of enhanced
Article IV surveillance for the period through 1989 that covered the initial
consolidation period under the MYRA with the commercial banks.
26.      At the conclusion of the most recent midyear consultation under the
procedures of enhanced surveillance in February 1989, the Fund's Executive
Board commended the Uruguayan authorities for their pursuit of a competitive
exchange rate policy and for their commitment to an exchange and trade
system that is essentially free of restrictions on payments and transfers
for both current and capital international transactions. However, the Board
expressed concern about the loss of momentum in the adjustment process over
the past year. Of particular concern were the widening in the fiscal
deficit, the intensification of wage indexation, and the pickup of
inflation.  Executive Directors were encouraged by the authorities'
intention to restore the momentum of adjustment, and they considered as
broadly appropriate the authorities' economic policy objectives for 1989.
However, questions were raised as to whether the program's fiscal targets
were sufficiently ambitious to bring down inflation, especially in the
context of wage indexation, or to lay the basis for sustainable economic
growth. Moreover, it was noted that the achievement of the program's fiscal
targets was premised on relatively optimistic assumptions and that from a
medium-term perspective structural changes were needed, especially in the
areas of the social security system and the public enterprises, and that the
various indexation mechanisms now present should be dismantled.
27.      The Fund's Executive Directors observed that a major challenge to
policy implementation in 1989 would be the rehabilitation of the four banks
absorbed by the Bank of the Republic in the recent past, to be carried out
in the context of the proposed new structural adjustment loan from the World
Bank. Directors urged that every effort be made to increase collections on
the portfolios of these banks, and that they be privatized as soon as they
are placed on a sound footing (ref. para 67 (a)).
C. The SAL I Program
28.      SAL I concentrated on four areas of economic policy in the Govern-
ment's medium-term program, namely trade policies and export promotion;
publie financial management; public investment programming; and financial
sector policies. Under it, the Government proceeded satisfactorily with its
overall program and kept the adjustment effort on track. It readily met the
criteria for disbursement of the loan. Annex VII examines the detailed
action programs and the progress in the policy areas supported by SAL I,
except for the financial sector (because of its prominent part in the
proposed SAL II), which is treated in paras. 57-63.



-9-
PART III - GOVERNMENT PROGRAM 1989-90
A. Growth Prospects
29.      Uruguay's development program has the following key targets for
1989-90:  increasing GDP and exports by 3.6 and 4.1 percent a year in real
terms, respectively; expanding per capita consumption by an average
2.4 percent a year; raising total investment to 13 percent of GDP in 1990;
increasing gross domestic savings from 11 percent of GDP in 1987 to 14 per-
cent in 1990; increasing the overall public sector surplus (excluding
interest payments of the external debt) to about 1.5 percent of GDP in
1989, equivalent to a deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP; reducing inflation to
an annual rate of 50 percent by 1990; lowering unemployment levels to
between 7 and 8 percent; maintaining a positive trade balance to keep the
ratio of the deficit of the current account balance of payments to GDP of
about 2 percent and maintaining constant the real level of total public
external indebtedness. These are considered realistic, consistent, and
reasonable targets for the policy framework to be supported by the proposed
SAL II.
30.      Bank projections indicate that Uruguay could achieve the targeted
growth rates under SAL II (Statistical Appendix, Table 6), which would in
turn support a higher level of investment. The projections are consistent
with a moderate annual growth rate for OECD economies, a mild deterioration
in the terms of trade, some increases in petroleum prices (from US$14 per-
barrel in 1988 to about US$16.6 in 1990 and US$22.0 in 1995), import price
increases based on the Bank's projected import unit values for Uruguay, and
LIBOR interest rates rising in line with the Bank's current assumptions.
However, changes in these assumptions, such as higher petroleum prices
and/or interest rates, will make it more difficult to achieve program
targets. For example, a 1 percent increase in LIBOR would add about
US$30 million to annual interest payments; a US$1 increase in the price of
oil per barrel would add about US$8 million a year to the import bill.
31.      The  outcome greatly depends on the performance of dollar exports,
now projected to grow at about 7 percent a year (4.4 percent in real terms)
during 1989-92. This rate is feasible since it is below the rates achieved
over the past three years (27 percent, 9 percent and 18 percent). The
projections are based on the Government's commitment to maintain the same
trade and foreign exchange policy framework for the 1988-90 program that
was central to the rapid export growth of 1986-88.
32.      To achieve these growth rates, the rate of gross investment to GDP
will have to increase to about 14 percent of GDP in 1992 from the depressed
levels or 1980-88 when investment averaged 7.7 percent of GDP a year.
Foreign financing would have to fill the gap between investment require-
ments and national savings (after payment of interest on the external
debt). Although low by international standards, these investment leveLs
would sustaiti adequate per capita GDP growth and provide for future needs
of the economy. This is because: (i) the population growth rate is low
(0.5 percent a year); (ii) a sizable share of the new investment goes to
agriculture and related activities, which are not as capital-intensive as



- 10 -
industry;,(iii) capital goods are better maintained in Uruguay and remain
serviceable for longer periods of times than in other countries; and
(iv) investments in new social infrastructure will be limited, which keeps
the ICOR low.
33.      Public sector finances would improve under the program supported
by SAL II with the reduction of the overall public sector deficit through
expenditure reductions and some limited tax actions. The public sector is
expected to maintain an overall surplus (excluding interest payments on the
external debt) of 1.5 percent of GDP.
34.      Even with some support from foreign sources, this expanded invest-
ment effort will require that consumption increase at a rate lower than
that of GDP. This will permit a slow but continued recovery in per capita
consumption, which is currently at about 93 percent of its 1980 level. Low
population growth facilitates achieving this result, which is essential to
Uruguay's sustained adjustment effort. The policies associated with this
effort ares holding private payroll adjustments until March 1990 to
90 percent of the past decreasing inflation rate, although real wages would
rise on account of productivity increases and expanded production; public
payroll adjustments at about 90 percent of past inflation; reducing real
expenditures for goods and services of the public sector; maintaining a
competitive exchange rate and real positive interest rates to provide
incentives for private savings to remain in Uruguay as well as attract
dollar deposits from neighboring countries; and a strengthening of the
financial sector and its ability to channel credit to sound private
activities. The projected savings effort is realistic and in line with
Uruguay's historic record (Statistical Appendix, Table 6).
35.      The projected consumption growth would permit domestic savings to
grow faster than GDP; the ratio of national savings to GDP is projected to
increase from 10 percent in 1988 to 12 percent in 1992. The increase would
come basically from private savings. The nonfinancial public sector is
projected to have current savings at about 2.7 percent of GDP, but the
Central Banks' losses most likely will result in negligible total public
savings. Part of the national savings increase would reflect the continued
success of Uruguay's prudent financial management of the economy; savings
remain in the economy rather than being invested abroad and recorded as
capital flight. Savings of nonresidents are also attracted in significant
amounts. Public sector finances would improve under the program, partly
through such measures as expenditure reductions and some limited tax
actions. The aforementioned projected cut in the public sector deficit
(including the quasi-fiscal losses of the Central Bank) to about 3.5
percent of GDP is consistent with the envisaged external financing
availability of about 4 percent of GDP from external borrowings and issues
of dollar-denominated bonds.
36.      This favorable macro scenario is potentially fragile, owing among
other factors to the destabilizing effects of the current financial sector
problems described in detail below. They impact on the health of the
domestic banking system to a significant extent. Also, the failure to
overcome the present problems could reverse the highly volatile flows of
dollar-denominated deposits to Uruguay's financial system.



- 11 -
37.      Social Impact.  The benefits of the program supported by SAL II
could be widespread throughout the economy.  Expanding manufacturing and
agriculture production will bring about a further reduction of unemployment
and higher real wages through productivity increases, the main elements in
the deterioration of social conditions during the 1982-85 recession. The
increase in employment will improve the lot of the urban worker but also of
the small farmers, who derive up to one-fourth of their ircomes from
salaried employment. During the recession, the small fartters looking for
employment were forced to become street vendors or perform other marginal
jobs. The Government's objectives of lowering unemployment further, now at
the lowest level (about 8.9 percent end-1988) since 1982, when the economic
situation began to unravel, along with the gradual recovery of past per
capita consumption levels should help sustain a reduction in the number of
households below the poverty line.
38.      As the economy improves and inflation gradually declines, it
should be easier to maintain the real level of aggregate social outlays for
education and health. Low-income groups would also benefit from a
reduction of inflation because incomes of workers in informal activities
are not well protected against inflation. The Government's investment
program includes also new works aimed at meeting pressing social needs.
Nevertheless, some groups will be hurt. Workers will have to work longer
years and receive lower real pensions than they had expected; some rela-
tives will lose their survivors' pension rights. However, social security
benefits, although reduced from the current unsustainable levels, would be
placed on a more solid long-term footing. On balance, given Uruguay's high
level of social welfare programs, the adjustment effort under SAL II will
not impose an undue burden on social programs while the majority of the
population is likely to benefit from improving economic conditions and
rising standards of living.
39.      External Financing Needs.  External financing is essential to
achieve Uruguay's projected growth rates because of the existing savings
and import cunstraints and the external debt burden. The tension between
growth and balance of payments stability surfaced again in late 1987 and
forced the Government to restrain domestic demand (para. 21), which, toge-
ther with other negative developments, severely affected GDP growth in
1988. If the external imbalance that was developing in 1987 had
continued, it would have produced a r ,ative trade balance in 1988. As it
was, it threatened the country's ability to remain current on its interest
payments on the external debt. This eventually could have affected
confidence in Montevideo as a financial center with very serious
consequences. In addition, sharp economic changes in Argentina undermined
Uruguay's exports of goods and tourism services there in 1988.
40.      Currently, Uruguay has gross foreign exchange reserves equivalent
to abdut six months of imports of goods and services and significant gold
holdings, which together represent about 50 percent of the highly volatile
dollar deposits in the banking system. These foreign exchange holdings, on
the surface, constitute a reasonable line of defense to help sustain growth
in the event of temporary shortfalls in export earnings, or sudden changes
in oil prices. However, since the level of debt payments is large relative
to exports, Uruguay's creditworthiness requires the country to keep a size-
able foreign exchange cushion to cover the eventuality of significantly
higher interest rates. Furthermore, Uruguay must keep adequate liquid



- 12 -
foreign exchange reserves to maintain the confidence of foreign depositors
- and avoid massive capital flight, as occurred in 1981-83. From the view-
point of strengthening Uruguay's creditworthiness and Montevideo's role as
a financial center, temporary gains of foreign exchange are appropriate to
increase reserves rather than reducing borrowing levels accordingly at the
expense of investment andogrowth, and freedom of exchange transactions.
41.      During 1989-92, with the MYRA II in place and no significant
capital outflow or increase in net foreign exchange reserves, Uruguay needs
about US$1.1 billion to finance its current account deficit and payments
due to multilateral banks. Gross disbursements under IDB and Bank
projects (excluding SAL II disbursements) are expected to provide about
US$0.4 billion, leaving an unfinanced gap of US$0.7 billion to be covered
by international and bilateral lenders, commercial banks, local and
international dollar bond issues, and short-term capital movements (see
Statistical Appendix, Table 7). During 1985-88, dollar-denominated
Treasury bonds (Statistical Appendix, Table 8) and bills have financed the
nonfinancial public sector's deficit and covered a reduction of previous
domestic financing (Statistical Appendix, Table 3); similarly, Central Bank
bills in dollars have financed most of its losses. Treasury bills and
bonds for about US$400 million (net) have been placed from 1985 to June
1988.
42.      The proposed SAL II fits naturally into this general balance of
payments situation. Policy-based lending, because of its quick-disbursing
character, will permit Uruguay to increase its import capacity and regain a
satisfactory growth rate, while undertaking essential additional reforms
that would increase financial stability and promote domestic savings and
investment. Without this support, the import capacity and debt service
constraints would require continuous reductions of the growth rate of the
economy (as happened in 1988). Lower growth, in turn, would adversely
affect the country's long-term ability to service its large external debt.
43.      Estimated net disbursements from Bank projects are likely to be
very small or negative in the next few years without SAL or sector finan-
cing (Statistical Appendix, Table 7), which additional project lending will
not bridge, particularly in view of the 30 percent reduction in public
investment. Uruguay's existing Bank pipeline is small as a result of the
limited lending that took place during the early 19808 when it was at the
threshold of 'graduation." Present exposure is relatively modest. Debt
service on Bank obligations, about 3.2 percent of exports in 1988, is pro-
jected to increase to about 4 percent in the next few years and to decline
towards 1995. In addition, Uruguay is scheduled to repay substantially the
short-term assistance received from the Fund under previous standby pro-
grams. This is a positive development, which will be an important
contributing factor to Uruguay regaining its full creditworthiness and
unrestricted access to commercial bank financing in the early 1990s as well
as to reduce the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal deficit. However, Uruguay's
net foreign exchange reserves will not increase by this amount. They
remain unchanged during 1989-92 as Uruguay uses reserve assets to pay back
the IMF. Dollar-denominated bonds, Japan's financial support and other
long-term creditors (e.g., IDB) will provide the bulk of the net financing
needed. Dollar-denominated Government bonds at 7 year maturities with
variable interest rates based on LIBOR plus spread have been placed in the



- 13 -
market in recent years (Statistical Appendix, Table 8), as have fixed rate
boids and Treasury bills which increased by US$260 million in 1988.
Negotiations with Japan are fairly advanced on a US$56 million loan from
OECF, following the recently agreed US$73.9 million EXIMBANK loan which
cofinanced the Bank's transport sector project. Another operation for
telecommunications, linked to a bond issue on the Tokyo market, is also
advancing now.
44.      The above-noted financial needs are predicated on the basis of
normal developments impinging on the capital account. Any outflow of
deposits because of a run on the commercial 'anks, or outflow of deposits
because of much improved financial conditions in Uruguay's neighboring
countries, or the unlikely event of political uncertainties owing to
Uruguay's coming elections would significantly weaken Uruguay's balance-of-
payments capital account and lead to larger external financing needs or
undesirable volatility in exchange and domestic interest rates.
B. SAL II Program
45.      In November 1987, the Uruguayan authorities requested a second SAL
to sustain and extend their medium-term development program through end-1990
as well as a complementary TA project to help provide the services and other
inputs related to carrying out the program (ref. para. 106). This has
facilitated the continuation of their dialogue with the Bank on the major
objective of further adjustment reforms. The results of these discussions
are reflected in the draft Development Policy Statement (DPS) (Annex III)-
and corresponding matrix (Annex IV). Two aspects demonstrate the
Government's commitment to press ahead with the reforms stipulated in the
Statement, and that this process has been successfully internalized. The
first is that several of the measures signify a continuity of policy
direction in execution since the mid-1970s; the second is that the
Government has already undertaken some of the steps to which it has
committed in the DPS. Consequently, the Government under SAL II would
sustain the policies and programs implemented under SAL I, as well as pursue
economic policies and reforms in line with the targets agreed under SAL II.
In particular, the Government would move ahead in three difficult policy
areas: (i) reducing the public sector deficit and the Government's role in
the economy, and improving public management and efficiency; (ii)
undertaking a fundamental effort to tackle the financial sector's
difficulties, which have important implications for other sectors and for
the fiscal deficit; and (iii) modernizing the legal framework regulating
business operations and capital markets, combined with improvements in the
effectiveness of the judicial system to carry out its functions properly and
promptly.
46.      The Components of the SAL II Program.  With respect to public
sectou reforms, the Government is concerned about the impact of the recent
slowdown of the economy and renewed inflationary pressures on fiscal
revenues, and particularly on the public sector deficit. It aims to
increase the surplus (excluding interest payments on the external debt) to
about 1.5 percent of GDP. The reform agenda also includes actions in:
(i) public sector managiement aiming at making the public sector leaner, more
efficient and better equipped to serve the free market-oriented Government
policy; (ii) fiscal and public enterprise revenues for the purpose oft
(a) increasing fiscal collections via improvements in tax administration,



- 14 -
including computerization of records, as well as a review of the tax system
to develop the basis for new reforms to enhance the system; and
(b) continuing efforts to improve the finances of public enterprises through
periodic tariff increases, plus measures to increase the cost effectiveness
of expenditures; (iii) the social security programs, with an emphasis on
revenue collection and inspections for the retirement, survivors and
disability (IVS) program coupled with the provision of revenues for unfunded
welfare-type programs, together with a continuation of reform measures to
improve the long-term financial viability of the IVS program; and (iv)
public investment programming for 1989-90, bringing further into the future
the actions initiated under SAL I. With respect to financial sector
reforms, the Government has recognized the need to strengthen the Central
Bank's regulatory framework and its supervision, as well as to move ahead
with a once-and-for-all solution to the problem of insolvent banks (ref.
para. 68).
47.      With respect to the legal framework for the normal functioning of
commercial and productive activities, SAL II supports important reforms of
laws and codes (legislation on civil court procedures, corporate and
unincorporated businesses, and leasing), as well as productive and exporting
activities (free trade zones, forestry development).
Public Finance and Administration
48.      Public Sector Deficit.  The main aims are to continue reducing the
public deficit and increase current savings.  The main fiscal targets
reflect the revised objectives defined in the enhanced surveillance program
understanding with the IDF, aimed at increasing the nonfinancial public
sector's savings to about 2.7 percent of GDP by 1990 and the overall budget
surplus (excluding interest payments on the external debt) to 1.5 percent of
GDP in 1989 with the Central Government's overall deficit at about 1 percent
of GDP in the same year. The actions agreed under SAL II would support
Government efforts to improve public administration and reduce the public
sector deficit by strict control of expenditures until end-1990 and
improvements in revenue collections. The expenditure control measures are
expected to result in savings of about 0.5 percent of GDP. The Government
will implement the following measures: (i) Central Government budgets for
1989-90 that provide for reduced real current expenditure levels for goods
and services; (ii) a 30 percent cut in public investments in 1989;
(iii) public salary adjustments below past CPI increases until 1990 and
closely linked to the evolution of current revenues; (iv) pension
adjustments based on changes of the average wage index; and (v) an
employment freeze in the public sector until 1990, along with continued
ontimization of labor efficiency in some public enterprises. Compliance
with Mi) will be condition for the release of the second tranche and
compliance with conditions (ii) through (v) will precede Board presentation.
49.      Revenue-increasing efforts are scheduled to continue under SAL II.
First, tariffs of public enterprises will continue to increase periodically
in line with'inflation, but expenditures will be made more cost-effective
through the implementation of cost accounting systems in the power,
petroleum, water, and telecommunications companies, and the port authority.
The anticipated cost economies, such as less than full backward indexation
of wage adjustments, will increase profitability. Second, steps also will
be taken to improve fiscal revenues by continuing and consolidating the
reforms initiated under SAL I of the tax administration. Tax actions



- 15 -
already taken include increased assessments for the wealth tax, shortened
tax collection lags in VAT, and increased taxes on financial assets.
Studies to prepare a reform program to rationalize further the tax system
will be undertaken in 1989, which will be used to prepare a reform package
for Parliament consideration in 1990. The completion of these studies would
be a condition of second tranche disbursements. Public enterprises' tariff
increases and revenue measures, combined with cost reductions, will result
in an increase of savings by the nonfinancial public sector of 0.7 of GDP in
1989.
50.      Central Bank Losses.  Uruguay's Central Bank (BCU) is now
generating most of the overall public sector deficit, partly on account of
losses resulting from its past purchases of nonperforming portfolios to
assist distressed commercial banks, and partly because of its interest
payments to multilateral creditors. The Central Bank is trying to collect
its portfolio through an external-for-internal debt conversion scheme with
positive results. Under it, BCU has recovered part of the nonperforming
loan portfolio while providing debt relief to domestic debtors. Second, it
has arranged for Banco Pan de Az(car to initiate collection procedures on
the outstanding loan balances. Nevertheless, the reduction of the Central
Bank losses coming out of the portfolio purchases would most likely not
exceed 20 percent of the original value, and BCU most likely would have to
liquidate the remaining portfolio at a loss. The quasi-fiscal losses,
however, would be reduced by the gradual repayments to the IMF and other
multilateral creditors, as well as through a debt-to-equity conversion
scheme, which has resulted in debt swaps totalling about US$60 million.
51.      Management.  Improving the efficiency of the public sector requires
a substantial modernization of the Central Governament's key services and of
aging infrastructure services, including their organization and regulation;
it also requires a reorientation of the traditional policy of using public
employment as an instrument of income redistribution. Public enterprises
will introduce cost-effective changes, shed their overstaffing, change
hiring and promotion policies, and improve accounting, administrative, and
managerial functions.
52.      The effort to improve public sector management, which will be
supported by SAL II, covers several areas: (i) improving key services
(e.g., tax administration, power, telecommunications, etc.); (ii) continuing
upgrading progranmming, budgeting and control of expenditures; (iii) reducing
public employment and the total wage bill while improving salary scales and
employment and promotion practices for professionals and high-level tech-
nicians; (iv) improving cost-effectiveness of enterprises through imple-
menting the results of cost-accounting and pricing studies; (v) restruct-
uring several public enterprises: ANP (ports), ILPE (fishing) and the
telecommunications company (ANTEL); and (vi) extending performance contracts
or indicators' systems to ANP, AFE, PLUNA, UTE and ANTEL. Performance
contracts have been negotiated for OSE; other performance contracts or
multi-year system performance indicators are being advanced for AFE, PLUNA
and ANTEL. Those for AFE and PLUNA are being developed with technical
assistance financed by TAL I; ANTEL's with technical assistance from the
International Telecommunications Union. For ANP, we expect a concrete
proposal under the Transport Sector Loan recently approved. For UTE, we
expect to institute performance indicators in step with a new proposed power
loan.



- 16 -
53.      Salary scales of professionals and technicians in the public-sector
cause much of the staff of the Government, its parastatals and financial
institutions to work part-time, resulting in limited productivity. This is
compounded by the rigid hiring and promotion statutes of public enterprises,
which make it difficult t6 hire new, qualified professionals or technicians.
The Government plans to move ahead with proposals to Parliament to change
salary scales for professionals and high level technicians and hiring and
promotion policies, to make it possible to retain their services in exchange
for longer working hours, to be made effective by the new administration
that will take power in March 1990.
54.      Social Security Programs.  The Government intends to maintain the
IVS system at levels consistent with the economy's capability to finance
this burden. To this end, it will continue to put emphasis on improving the
Social Security Bank's (BPS) finances as a way of reducing fiscal deficits,
advancing on the progress achieved in the old-age. survivors, and disability
program (IVS) under SAL I. The next step is to put in place computerized
systems in the revenue collection unit of BPS and strengthen the control of
contributions (financing is provided by TAL II). This will be in place as a
condition of second tranche release. This is essential to initiate the
verification of contributions, the classification of agricultural producers
in accordance with the new payment system, the cross-checking of information
by firms and sectors, and an early warning system for detecting potential
noncompliance. The Government is also working on monitoring more effic-
iently social security contributions. Actions to strengthen further the IVS
program (reductions of the wage replacement ratio, gradual retirement
programs after reaching retirement age) satisfactory to the Bank will be
prepared for presentation to the new Parliament during the initial period of
a new administration. Raising the issue in 1989 could be counterproductive
given the potential for undesirable changes in an election year.
55.      About half of the BPS deficit originates in the welfare-type
programs (aid to families with dependent children, maternity allowances,
unemployment, old-age pensions, health), now serving large population
groups. Since these programs are not properly funded, the SAL II program
includes actions to reduce and control expenditures better (e.g., cross-
checking of beneficiaries of all BPS programs andlor providing new sources
of financing). The Government is expected to determine revenue sources for
these programs and prepare legal and administrative steps to regularize its
contribution to BPS. The purpose of the changes in the IVS program and in
the welfare-type programs is to reduce the total BPS deficit from about
2 percent of GDP to zero in the early 1990s, a significant advance from the
zero target of year 2000 under SAL I.
56.      Public Investment Programming.  The SAL II program includes the
continuation of recent efforts to improve investment programming and
execution but also the expansion of its umbrella to cover the programming
mechanisms of public sector activities, mostly to facilitate the preparation
of the 1990-95 program and budget of the new administration. A new invest-
ment program is being prepared covering 1989-90 to facilitate the transition
of power. This program will incorporate ceilings designed to meet the
deficit targets agreed with the INF. In parallel, the program to strengthen
the Planning and Budget Office (OPP) and the sectoral planning units will



- 17 -
continue; new units are also being created in education, health, and the
telecommunications tcopany (ANTEL).  Procedures to generate. implement and
follow up investment projects in OPP and the investing agencies will
continue to be strengthened.
Ca Financial Sector Reform
57.      When the Sanguinetti admini3tration took office in March 1985, it
realized that the existing banking crisis contributed to macroeconomic
instability and also was a major constraint in revitalizing the economy. It
also recognized the need for a reduction of the financial burden on
productive, viable firms to manageable levels and for support to the private
banking system to withstand its losses.
58.      The administration first sought to maintain afloat both the banks
and their debtors. Its program consisted of a debt restructuring law; the
creation of a develcpment corporation to restructure firms; initial
improvements in the regulatory and supervisory procedures of the Central
Bank; a revamping of the legal framework regulating corporations and other
forms of business associations, banking documents and leasing contracts; and
a modernization of judicial procedures.
59.      A 1985 law established rules for refinancing existing debts and for
apportioning loses between debtors and creditors, with the banks absorbing
the losses originating from poor lending practices. The legislation
provided a stretching out of maturities, grace periods, and a reduction of
capitalized interest. The law focuses mostly on the rescheduling of
outstanding debts. This does not improve the debt/equity structure nor does
it improve the recovery prospects of outstanding loans if the companies are
not viable. Nevertheless, the law established a serviceable mechanism for
rescheduling existing debts and for liquidation procedures to resume. It
also removed the expectation of a general bailout of both creditor banks and
debtors.
60.      The refinancing law forced the commercial banks to confront the
losses connected with their uncollectible portfolios. Two local banks
(Banco Comercial and Banco Caja Obrera) collapsed and had to be intervened
by the state-owned Banco Repdblica. The latter a:so had to take over two
local branches of foreign banks (Banco de Italia and Banco Pan de AzCcar),
vhen their main offices in Argentina and Chile fell into serious financial
difficulties. However, the deterioration of their domestic portfolios would
have required a rescue operation anyway.
61.      The banking system's problems have brought about major changes.
First, private commercial banks are retrenching from the local market,
particularly in manufacturing. Second, the financial system's need for
highet interest rate margins to compensate for poor portfolios increases
interest rates to borrowers, except "prime" customers. This encourages
private investors to borrow funds outside the financial system, or to
postpone investment decisions. Third, many firms no longer are considered
acceptable risks. Fourth, foreign banks have injected new funds to cover
their losses.
62.      Actions Under SAL I.  Under the SAL I program, the Government had
agreed that no bailouts of commercial banks would take place and committed



- 18 -
itself to enforce actions pr'ocribed in the refinancing law against debtors
who failed to live up to their refinancing agreements. The Government's
commitment was tested when the Parliament approved a law in 1988 easing the
refinancing requirementst it was vetoed by the President.
63.      The SAL I program also included measures to strengthen the capital
market and improve BCU's domestic regulation of commercial banks. The
Government sent to Parliament draft laws (which IFC helped develop) to
modernize the framerork ruling corporations, leasing contracts, and bank-
ruptcies. The Central Bank introduced new manuals and accounting proce-
dures, which cover classification of new loans, reserves for potential
losses, and an early warning system for liquidity and solvency problems and
for orienting in situ inspections. Its regulations for classifying assets,
the provisioning of nonperforming loans, accounting of interest and exchange
gains, and minimum capital requirements still need further overhaul.
64.      The SAL II Program.  In defining the aims of SAL II, the Government
recognizes that some limitations of the financial sector will continue to
impinge on its performance. First, domestic commercial banking is
relatively limited in scope in line with the small size of the economy, the
concentrationi of financial activity in the capital city, and the tradi-
tionally low level 3f national savings. This limits the degree of competi-
tion which can effectively be obtained. Second, financial liberalization
encouraged new dynamism during the 19708 and early 1980s, particularly by
fornign-owned banks, but the latter's retrenchment from domestic credit
operations more recently is in line with multinational banking trends
throughout Latin America, beyond Uruguay's capacity to alter significantly,
and with the banking sector difficulties after the collapse of the tablita.
Third, the country possesses a rudimentary capital market that cannot yet
make a substantial contribution to mobilizing long-term resources. Fourth,
like the rest of the economy, the banking system suffers from the country's
outdated laws and judicial processes, which adversely affect banking
operations and their accounting, as well as external auiditing practices.
65.      In this context, the reform program is designed to improve the
performance of the Uruguayan financial sector in several important areas.
It reflects the Government's recognition that the work it began some three
years ago in the sector when the structural adjustment process was launched
has been insufficient. The authorities appreciate that these initial steps,
while important, need further deepening over the next several year3 if the
financial system is to become a more positive contributor to growth in the
productive sectors.
66.      The Government's Development Policy Statement reaffirms the
authoritieut' commitment to maintaining the policy framework that has served
to facilitate the efficient mobilization of financial resources. The
Goverdiment envisages no basic changes in this framework, and none are
needed. It intends to maintain its policies of free maLket determination of
interest rates (currently positive it, real terms), no interference with
credit markets, and no restrictions on current and capital foreign exchange
transactions. These, together with the salutary results of other financial
liberalization measures of the 19709, have contributed positively to
eliminating previous distortions as well as the growth of both the financial
system and offshore operations. They also have attracted substantial
foreign capital.



- 19 -
67.      The Government's reform program addresses four key areas:
(a) The rescue of the four banks that failed in
1986-87. The protracted recession and heavy debt
obligations that resulted from the partial failure
of the appr6ach of the 1979-82 liberalization
program seriously impaired the profitability of
thase banks, which represent an important part of
the system. Their distressed situation is
evidenced by large non-performing loan portfolios,
high operating costs and inadequate provisions for
portfolio losses. Since the Government took over
their control, the Central Bank and Banco
Rep(ablica's losses in assisting these banks have
exceeded US$100 mil) on equivalent. As noted in
para. 27, during their recent review of Uruguay's
situation, the Fund's Executive Directors observed
that a major challenge to policy implementation in
1989 would be the rehabilitation of the insolvent
banks. The Directors urged that every effort be
made to increase collections on their portfolios,
and that they be privatized as soon as they are
placed on a sound footing. Action Programs The
Government has initiated a program directed to the
restructuring of three banks (Banco Pan de AzOcar,
Banco Caja Obrera and Banco Comercial) which have a
long tradition and a sizeable market share in spite
of their difficulties. The fourth insolvent bank,
Banco de Italia, will be liquidated. This action
program would help stem further losses in the
banking system, result in better portfolios and
improved capital adequacy of the rehabilitated
banks, which should reduce the cost of funds to
borrowers, and avoid a run on deposits.
(b) Strengthening the regulatory framework, which was
relaxed under the liberalization and deregulation
campaign. It is currently inadequate to provide
discipline and stability in the banking system, to
protect depositors and to motivate efficiency
within the financial institutions. Serious
deficiencies in banking regulations, together with
weak Central Bank supervision, contributed to the
aforementioned deterioration in the banks'
portfolios. They have permitted profits to be
inflated, loan losses to go unrecognized, etc.
Action Program: The Central Bank has designed a
program of actions to tighten banking standards,
reporting and supervision, and to bring the level
of regulation to new international requirements
(i.e. the "Basle Agreement* criteria) in order to
enhance the health of the banking system. The
major improvements--upgrading loan classifications,



- 20 -
provisioning, c.-Atalization. exposure ceilings,
accounting rules and regulation enforcement- -would
increase financial discipline while protecting
domestic as well as foreign confidence in the
regional banking center.
(c)  Ensuring eqaal treatment of Banco RepOblica and
private commercial banks. While the banking system
operates under relatively limited Government inter-
vention, its internal competitiveness has been
marred by the heavy participation of BROU's long
established, preponderant position in the sector,
The issue is compounded by various non-banking
Goveranent functions, resulting in contention over
whether its status has given it a disp;oportionate
advantage. Action Program: The Government has
decided to rationalize BROU's role and make it more
subject to Central Bank regulation under the new
uniform standards in the interests of equalizing
conditions for all banks.
(d) Further strengthening the financial system depends
in part on new approaches to a number of outstand-
ing questions. There is a need, for example, for
more adequate policies and marhlnery to handle the
restructuring (or exit) of insolvent banks if and
whenever that situation should recur. A second
problem area is the appropriateness of existing
regulations for deposit insurance. Third, the
Tdollarization' of the economy has weakened the
control of monetary aggregates and has created a
strong public preference for dollar-denominated
deposits. However, most domestic borrowers do not
earn foreign exchange, which has led to an asset/
liability currency mismatch in the banking system.
As one consequence, there have arisen substantial
difficulties regarding the coverage of the exchange
risk in borrowing transactions, which contributes
to unusually high spreads. Action Program: The
Government is aware that the aforementioned
financial reform measures need to be complemented
by medium-term actions in order to achieve greater
deepening of the financial sector. It has decided
to undertake an in-depth analysis of these and
related problems for future policy review and
decisions.
68.      Restructuring of Commercial Banks in Distress.  The Government has
decided to tackle the very serious problems created by the insolvent banks.
Such action is needed to avoid: (i) a deterioration in the collectibility
of the portfolio of good loans; and (ii) the corresponding increase In the
capital costs of restructuring or liquidating the banks. These potentAal
developments may lead to a run on foreign currency deposits in the banking
system. The importance of finding a solution to this problem is evident by
the fact that the three banks in distress represent a large segment of the



- 21 -
private commercial banking business (31 percent of total deposits; about
half of peso deposits; 17 percent of total performing loans; and 47 percent
of uncollectible loans, ref. Stattstical Appendix, Table 9). Their
deposits totalled about US$650 million on September 30, 1988.
69.      The three banks'.accumulated losses are reflected in their
US$155 million negative net worth as of September 30, 1988 (Statistical
Annex, Tables 9 and 10). These losses result from: (i) inconsistent
macropolicies in the early 19809 combined with an excess supply of loanable
funds both in Uruguay and abroad; (ii) the banks' failure to adapt lending
practices to the new market conditions; (iii) their continued lending to
unprofitable firms; and (iv) desperation strategies, such as raising
interest rates to attract depositors to cover cash flow problems. The
estimate of the accumulated losses is based on the analysis by Bank
consultants, prepared in collaboration with the Central Bank Superintenden-
cy of Banks, which conducted special inspections of the failed banks. The
conclusions of the Bank consultants were compared with those of the credit
managers and external auditors of the banks. These estimates show, with a
high degree of confidence, the level of financial support needed to reduce
the negative net worth to zero.
70.      The estimated recapitalization needs of the three banks take into
account both their equity deficiencies (US$135 million) on account ef
already accumulated losses and the funds needed (US$110 million) to restore
their equity position to levels adequate for future profitability and for
compliance with minimum present and future capital requirements. The
latter is the Government's risk in carrying out the restructuring opera-
tion. Consequently, the overall needs are estimated at about US$265 mil-
lion (Statistical Appendix, Table 10). Table 11 of the Statistical
Appendix shows the banks' balance sheets before and after the proposed
recapitalization, assuming that bonds or a mix of bonds and equity equiva-
lents will be used to restore the banks' capital in the initial stage of
the financial rehabilitation. The latter is the solution adopted by the
Government under the SAL program, and is intended to establish the initial
conditions for reprivatization, in compliance with Uruguayan law.
71.      To illutrate the gravity of the situation, income statements were
projected assuming the initial situation (September 30, 1988) and quantify-
ing the prospects for additional losses in a year's time in the absence of
recapitalization (Statistical Appendix, Table 12). The projections assume
no further deterioration in the quality of the sounder part of the port-
folio.  Actual annual estimated losses of the commercial banks resulting
from operating financial and intermediation losses total US$57 million;
wages and other net operating costs add US$26 million. The effects of the
losses in the three banks plus the weight of operating costs are shown in
the Statistical Appendix, Table 12.
72.      An alternative projection of the one-year income statements
provides for injections of new capital to the banks (as shown in Statis-
tical Appendix, Table 10). The recapitalization impact on the projected
five-year income statements of each bank is presented in Statistical
Appendix, Table 13. The projections show that, with the new capital
invested in dollar-denominated Government bonds, the income statements are
turned around. As projected, the bonds remain in the balance sheets of the
banks during the restructuring period. The banks can seek a more active



* 22 -
participation in the credit market, once managerial and operating practices
are fully revamped or new owners take over. They could thus gradually
dispose of the bonds and increase their loan portfolios at a higher yield,
raising further the profitability of the banks. Given Uruguay's market
size, this is expected to take place at a slow pace and following prudent
practices. Capitalization ratios also reach acceptable levels if the banks
maintain their income at least at a level similar to that provided by the
bonds (Statistical Appendix. Table 13).
73.      Financing the Restructuring.  The impact of the proposed scheme on
public sector accounts would be as indicated in Statistical Appendix, Table
14, which shows the Government program to restructure and recapitalize the
three banks and return them to a positive operation (US$265 million), along
with an additional US$30 million liquidation costs for Banco de Italia. As
noted earlier, the operation encompasses both the coverage of accumulated
losses (US$155 million) and injection of new funds (US$110 million) to
recapitalize the three banks. Stopping the deterioration of the banks
would bring about positive savings (expenditures for personnel and
excessive branches are reduced), and new operating policies should put them
back on a profitable path. In addition, when the restructured banks are
sold, the Government would recover some of the US$110 million invested to
recapitalize them.
74.      The proceeds of the financial sector component of SAL II would
help the Government finance expenditures of the medium-term program,
including possibly some of the increases in the public sector deficit and
in the off-budget deficit created by the cash costs of the restructuring 1/
to be incurred in 1989 (Central Government US$35 million--not including
interest on the Bank loan--Central Bank US$26 million, Banco Repdblica
US$16 million). The 1989 fiscal expenditures of the restructuring
operation noted above cannot be financed by further reductions of
expenditures or by new taxes that are unlikely to be approved by Parliament
in an election year, particularly as a 'bail-out.' Domestic financing is
ruled out because of its inflationary impact. Bank financing would help
avoid this as well as the negative consequences of crowding out the private
sector.
75.      The Alternatives.  The alternatives considered by the Government
(and examined by the Bank) to tackle the problem of the three insolvent
banks weres liquidation, absorption by Banco Rep4blica, and selling them
to prospective buyers before or after their restructuring. Liquidation now
would entail high risks because of a potential run on other banks in the
financial center, given the relatively large size of Banco Comercial, Banco
Caja Obrera, and Banco Pan de Azacar. Also, liquidation with Government
guarantee of deposits would be more costly to the Government than the other
alternatives.  The high cash cost of paying off depositors is one impo tant
reason for the Government's decision to rehabilitate these three banks.
With little prospect of a quick recovery of the loan portfolio (including
currently sound loans), under the liquidation approach, the Government's
net costs would increase accordingly and consist of the indemnity to be
paid to all employees plus the total amount of deposits plus other
liabilities, less recoveries from the loan portfolio (only after protracted
1/ Some of the costs would be covered through accounting transfers, e.g.,
US$20 million cancellation of Central Bank's claims on Caja Obrera and
Banco Rep6blica's US$32 million capitalization of losses.



- 23 -
litigation). This is equivalent to recovering the loans' heavily
discounted present value or the alternative of trying to collect or take
possession of depreciated collaterals also through already lengthy legal
processes. To gauge the impact, present values were estimated under
different assumptions about the length of time required for the recoveries
to calculate roughly the fiet costs. The results show that the costs are
higher than for the restructuring alternative; the variable element is the
length of the the recovery period (Statistical Appendix, Table 15). It is
noteworthy that the liquidation of banks begun in the early 1970s is still
being implemented, as is the liquidation of Banco Transatlantico initiated
in the 19609. Statistical Appendix, Table 9 shows the position of each
bank to be restructured. The difference between the value of the
performing plus the non-peroorming loans in the portfolio and their
discounted value, if they become uncollectible, is a rough indication of
the additional costs involved in liquidation. Labor costs of terminating
all employees would have to be added, roughly estimated at about
US$53 million.
76.      Integration with Banco Repoblica is theoretically feasible.  It
does not entail significant new portfolio losses; performing loans continue
to be serviced and severance payments may not be required. It would how-
ever entail increases in personnel costs and inefficiencies; moreover,
losses on bad portfolios would be absorbed by Banco Republica and the
Government. But Banco Rep4blica's share of the credit market would rise to
close to 70 percent, an undesirable outcome for competition in the domestic
market. Moreover, it is firm Government policy, recently ratified by the-
Parliament, to restore private ownership to the insolvent banks.
77.      Selling the three banks to private investors who meet minimum
requirements is the objective of the Government's restructuring program in
a transparent operation. Selling them in their present condition is
theoretically possible but not likely to happen without first cleansing the
portfolio and realizing significant cuts in staff and branches, which would
be more readily accomplished by the Government. The option of selling
before restructuring would not enable the Government to make very sizeable
savings. Even if banks are sold in their present condition, the buyer will
require disposal of the bad portfolio, which entails a capital contribution
from the Government to cover the negative equity of the bank or banks to be
sold (estimated at about US$155 million plus some allowance of potential
losses in the non-performing portfolio and other investments). On this
basis, the Government would have to disburse in cash about US$212 million,
with fiscal repercussions and for which financing would be needed. If the
buyer requires further concessions to take over the banks, the Government's
costs would increase accordingly. In any case, the buyer would have to
bring adequate capital to cover the current 5 percent ratio and for the
gradual increase to 8 percent under the new Central Bank regulations.
Statistical Appendix, Table 16 shows the difference between an immediate
sale (provided a purchaser is found willing to take the risks and to buy
the banks with the aforementioned payments) and restructuring for future
reprivatization.
78.      Restructuring the banks is the alternative being pursued by the
Government in view of the limited feasibility of a quick sale. The
authorities also decided on this option in order to advance the restoration
of a more competitive banking system, which also facilitates the function-



- 24 _
ing of the economy. They also understand that this action cannot be
delayed because the price of the cleanup grows every month. To launch the
program, the Government has already carried out, with the Bank's help, a
detailed review of the portfolios of the distressed banks that enables it
to confront the issues raised by the operation. The Government's judgement
(which the Bank shares) is that the three banks would be viable once
restructured and recapitalized. They have now a sizeable share of the
deposits and of the liquid assets (25 percent) in commercial banks, while
their loans at potential risk (nonperforming) are 18 percent of the total
accounted for by commercial banks (Statistical Appendix, Table 9). With
the rescue packages in place and assuming a return on new operations at
least equal to that of Government bonds, the three banks can be expected to
show a profit in some two years.
79.      As indicated in the Statement on Bank Restructuring (Annex III),
the Government has stated repeatedly that it intends to divest itself of
the distressed commercial banks as soon as their financial health is
restored and suitable private buyers are found. If a purchaser is readily
found, the banks will be sold quickly. If not, the National Development
Corporation (CND), which would assume transitory majority ownership, will
continue with the restructuring, an arrangement which has been planned in
consultation with the Bank. CND is an institution created in 1985 to
restructure firms considered operationally viable under the refinancing law
that require new infusions of capital (ref. Annex V). Currently it is the
only institution aside from Banco Repdblica with legal powers readily
available to undertake the restructuring of the banks. The Development
Corporation will provide the legal framework to take over the three banks
from Banco Repdblica; however, the restructuring operation for each bank
will be mostly the responsibility of the new CEOs and new management teams
of the banks, under tightened Central Bank and Government supervision
supported by technical assistance under TAL II.
80.      The Government is aware that numerous developing countries facing
similar problems have employed various types of public institutions to
direct restructuring programs. It, however, also recognizes the risks of
its prolonged ownership of these banks. For this reason, CND will only
temporarily own the three banks until an acquirer is found. As it appears
unlikely that any bank now operating in Montevideo would be interested in a
merger or that local financial interests would wish to establish new banks,
the Government is looking to foreign banks to purchase the restructured
banks or to IFC to participate subsequently in the reprivatization effort.
In the interim, the restructured banks would be managed by independent and
highly qualified professionals, with powers to turn the institutions
around. Necessary changes in Boards of Directors and management, together
with management and staff streamlining, will be undertaken at this stage
with Bank assistance. Monitorable yardsticks of progress in the restr'ict-
uring'process will be detailed in a performance contract with the new CEO
of each restructured bank, which will cover, for example. quantitative
financial targets, staff and branch reductions, volumes of new lending, and
provisioning; The provisions of the performance contract (providing the
terms of reference for the CEO's) would also specify that each CEO would be
expected to retain the services of a qualified investment bank for
preparing the Uruguayan bank for sale and an estimated date by which it
would be offered for sale. These yardsticks would be an element in judging
the performance of the new CEOs. Stringent lending policies will be
applied during the restructuring process to avoid a further deterioration
of these banks.



- 25 -
81.      Annex.IX lists the principal steps in the restructuring process
related to the proposed SAL component, as well as the complementary TAL
project. Under the agreed program, the Government will appoint a Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) for each of the three banks, with credentials and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, together with the board
members. These CEO's would not be replaced and, under the TAL II, it would
be agreed that their contracts would not be terminated without the Bank's
assent. The CEOs selected preferably will be Uruguayans with extensive
banking experience abroad working for highly reputable international banks
and supported by qualified management teams. To help the Government
attract and retain sufficiently expert personnel for these tasks, the
proposed TAL II project would provide some limited financial and technical
support to these CEOs.
82.      The following tasks will be carried out.  The first item would be
the appointment of each of the new CEOs after loan approval, but before
disbursement of the financial sector component for the corresponding bank.
Financing to cover a portion of the salaries would be included in the TAL
project, which is being presented for approval simultaneously. The new
CEOs, within 120 days of their arrival on duty, will present action plans,
including, among others, the following: quantitative profit targets for
the year and quantitative targets on the reduction of staff and number of
branches satisfactory to the Bank. The criteria for these plans are
described in Annex VI. Second, prior to the disbursement of the loan
component and to support the restructuring of the banks, there would be:
(i) an increase of CND's paid up capital; (ii) a subscription by CND of the
full capital requirements of the banks; (iii) the hiring by CND of a
coordinator for the restructuring operation; and (iv) persons with adequate
qualifications have formed a new board of directors for each bank.
83.      The financial restructuring is based on comprehensive audits of
each bank's financial position (prepared with Bank assistance), with
particular emphasis on an assessment of the amount of doubtful and
uncollictable loans to be written-off and the required capitalization to
comply with minimum current standards. To meet the banks' required
capitalization, the needed resources will be fully subscribed by CND with
the resources provided by the Government and Banco Repdblica. The rescue
packages for each bank will be sufficient to meet tests involving adequacy
of capital, asset quality, management excellence, earnings capacity, and
liquidity. The Government, in consultation with the Bank, has adopted the
following principles for each financial restructuring: (i) to write-off
the bad assets and to recognize also the losses arising out of accrued, but
not realized, exchange differentials and interest earnings; (ii) to provide
an additional capital contribution needed to ensure the banks' return to
profitability; (iii) to eliminate all previous owners' claims on capital by
writing down bad assets before injecting new capital; (iv) to introduce
substantial changes in managers, management practices, and operating
policies; and (v) to restore the banks to private ownership. The
Government and the Bank have agreed on a plan to pursue recoveries on the
banks' doubtful and uncollectible loans. The afore-mentioned CND
coordinator would particularly assist the banks in this connection.
Further, the new CEOs would employ a collection agency, or several, within
100 days after delivering the aforementioned action plan.



- 26 -
84.      The banks to be rehabilitated have an excessive number of branch
offices and staff, representing over 40 percent of the 245 bank offices in
Uruguay. Many offices maintain low levels of deposits and have operating
costs higher than the maximum potential spread they could obtain on their
deposits. The analysis iddicates that about 39 offices of BCO and BCOM
would need to be closed along with reductions in central overhead to lower
substantially operating costs.
85.      Reprivatization would be difficult, even after financial rehabili-
tation, without a significant staff reduction to reduce operating costs,
which account for about one-third of the total losses. Needed staff reduc-
tions are about one-third of current levels, (see Statistical Appendix,
Table 18). This will be a difficult issue to deal with and may require
indemnizations in accordance with labor laws.
86.      Prudential Regulations.  Apart from the four insolvent banks, the
rest of the system also shows significant losses (see Statistical Appendix,
Table 9). This requires stronger regulatory actions to bring minimum
capital requirements to the new international standards and a more vigorous
approach to provisioning for bad loans, followed by stricter supervision of
the new regulations and sanctions by the Central Bank, and the introduction
of tighter accounting rules. SAL II include actions to meet these
objectives. The new Central Bank rules and regulations governing
commercial banks as well as supervision standards are defined in Annex
VIII; they would be issued prior to loan effectiveness.
87.      Central Bank Supervision.  BCU is increasing the number of super-
visors by 10 and plans to add about 20 new professionals. An action plan
for strengthening the Superintendency of Banks has been presented during
negotiations. New staff will be trained in supervision techniques and
there will be a transfer of skills, technology, and knowledge from abroad
with TAL I1 assistance.   With this increased number of supervisors, visits
per bank will increase, permitting stricter controls of the commercial
banks' compliance with the new regulations.
88.      External Auditors.  Auditing firms will be subject to more strin-
gent standards of performAnce and certification than in the past, particu-
larly with respect to the classification and evaluation of assets, in line
with BCU's new regulations. Auditors will also provide the lists of finan-
cial groups operating with the bank, detailing the firms each group
controls, and noting any bank risk that exceeds 10 percent of its net
worth. Auditing standards will be raised and noncompliance by auditing
firms would entail decertification. Auditors will be required to express
an opinion about audited balances and to report any problem they have
detected. The purpose is to increase the effectiveness of auditors, who
will tiow have clear legal guidelines to assess the banks' books, require
writing-off problem assets, and provide judgements about a bank's books.
89.      The Role of Banco Repdblica.  The Government's reform program also
calls for Banco Rep6blica to be reorganized with the aims of:
(i) modernizing commercial operations and bringing them to higher levels of
efficiency; (ii) applying commercial banking regulations and corresponding
accounting practices to its commercial activitiest and (iii) separating its
banking and nonbanking operations and their financing.



- 27 -
90.      Banco Rep6blica is the most solid commercial bank in Uruguay.  It
offers a vast menu of financial services to the public and has a good debt
collection record. Its 19 agencies in Montevideo and 83 other branches
give BROU a dominant presence in this relatively small country. They
enable it to perform many.bfunctions, i.e., commercial and development bank,
channel of supervised agricultural credit, customs and preparation of
foreign trade statistics, bill collector for public enterprises
(electricity, telephone, water), and surrogate Government Treasury (it
collects taxes, cashes Government checks and holds deposits for the
Government). In addition, BROU operates with small customers (borrowers
and depositors), with whom the international, foreign-owned banks prefer
not to deal on the grounds that transaction costs are too high. Banco Caja
Obrera and Banco Comercial are the only significant competition of Banco
Rep6blica in these areas, which is a strong argument for revitalizing these
two banks. A special situation is the customs functions that were
transferred to BROU in the 1960s as a reaction to questionable customs
practices of that time.
91.      Banco Reptiblica has a loyal and dedicated work force of about
5,800 people with salaries regulated by public sector guidelines. As a
result, despite its commercial banking functions, BROU's salaries are
significantly below those of commercial banks (a commercial bank clerk
earns 80 percent more than his counterpart in BROU; a manager three times
more).
92.      Operating and accounting practices of BROU are old-fashioned and
conservative. A major effort is needed to bring these to more modern
standards and to introduce computerization of operations and programs to
analyze lending operations better. This will be done in parallel with the
adoption of BCU's accounting system and in compliance with its revised
regulatory norms. Technical assistance will be provided by the TAL II
project for this purpose.
93.      The success of Banco Replblica has become an issue for the
development of a balanced financial sector because of the large market
share it controls. This share rises significantly (close to 70 percent)
with the inclusion of the rescued banks, which this operation is designed
to help reprivatize. Banco Repfiblica's large share of the commercial bank-
ing business is more the result of market forces and the selling of port-
folios to the Central Bank by the comercial banks than of aggressive
lending policies by Banco Repiblica. Its market share has fluctuated
markedly over time. It decreased from 47 percent in 1973 to 26 percent in
1981 as private commercial banks expanded operations in response to the
favorable market conditions created by liberalization policies. After the
collapse of the tablita in 1982, private commercial banks reduced their
market share significantly by selling bad portfolios to the Central Bank.
The process was intensified when the commercial banks shifted credit to
top-rated customers and nonresident borrowers. Banco RepiLblica's share
increased to about 43 percent, and together with those of the failed banks,
comprised about 60 percent in August 1988 (Statistical Appendix, Table 20).
The current share of Banco Rep4blica alone, however, is still below that of
1973, before the financial sector reform.



- 28 -
94.      It has been argued that BROU enjoys some important privileges
because of its unique functions and role in Uruguay.   The analysis by Bank
consultants indicates that many of BROU's functions do not give it a
serious competitive advantage for several reasons. First, the collection
of public service fees (water, electricity, telephone services) does not
represent a special advantage but, rather, a cost to BROU. Commercial
banks could collect these payments but have resisted this unless the payee
is a depositor. Second, the privilege of receiving deposits from public
enterprises and the Central Government is mandated to BROU by law; BROU is
also required to receive tax payments and honor all Government checks
againRt these deposits, which entails operating costs. Apart from the
costs involved in managing these deposits, they have high volatility and
thus low profitability, which limits the financial incentive for the
Government or the enterprises to shift them to other institutions, since
BROU pays interest on the longer term component of these deposits.  In
addition, the risk of insolvency of the private commercial banks is higher
(BROU has a debt/equity ratio of 2 to 1; the commercial banks 20 to 1).
Large withdrawals are common, and a commercial bank may encounter liquidity
difficulties to honor large Government checks against these deposits.
Third, the VAT exemption for credit to small borrowers is not significant.
These credits are not actively pursued by commercial banks. Fourth,
physical separation of custom services is less likely because of the
problems experienced in the past but the surplus could be trimmed.
Revenues are now about US$15 million with costs running at about US$5
million for a net of about US$10 million.  The alternative advantage to
this small country, which could potentially accrue from an independent
customs service providing the service at additional costs, appears to be
small.
95.      However, the analysis a:co identified some features that need to
be changed to equalize conditions within domestic banking. The Government
intends to take the following actions to ensure that BROU is a fair compet-
itor. BROU will separate its commercial banking and nonbanking operations,
follow the accounting practices of the Banco Central, and comply with its
regulations and supervision requirements under the Government program, with
no exemption from the requirements on other banks. BROU's deviations from
these practices would only be acceptable if these practices were stricter
than those of the new Central Bank regulations (e.g., provisioning for
potential losses). BROU will be required to pay dividends to the Govern-
ment of 5 percent of its equity bv 1991, which would represent a minimum
dividend rate consistent with the international cost of money. This would
be implemented gradually: 2 percent in 1989; 3.5 percent in 1990; and
5 percent in 1991. Consumer loans of all commercial banks will receive the
same VAT treatment as BROU's credit to small borrowers; the exemption will
be extended to all consumer loans. TAL II will support BROU's
modernization effort, the revamping of the accounting system, and the
computerization of its accounts to make it more efficient.   It also will
provide for a study of BROU's role in the future. At the same time, the
Government, under the principle of equal treatment for all commercial
banks, intends that no quantitative or qualitative restrictions be imposed
on BROU.



- 29 -
96.      Future of the Banking System.  The pending reforms in Uruguay's
banking system should provide the basis for an assessment of the need for a
new institutional mechanism or for consolidating CND's role in the rescue
and rehabilitation of private banks in the future. The assessment will
also take into consideration current trends in developed countries that
question the advisability.of excessively generous deposit insurance as well
as proposals to reduce the deposit amount insured. It will evaluate the
experience of the existing Uruguayan deposit insurance mechanism (which
proved inadequate to limit the Government's liability in previous crises),
the question of foreign exchange risk coverage, and a review of BROU's
future role. The State Guarantee Fund was established in 1965 in response
to a banking crisis. It insured private deposits up to US$50,000 (NU$-1000
UR) and was financed through taxes on rediscounts and bank deposits.   With
the introduction of the NU peso and subsequent devaluations, it quickly
lost relevance. The Government has agreed to carry out a study on these
questions, with the costs of their execution financed under the TAL II
project. The study will be completed by July 1991 and, promptly
thereafter, the Government will present an action plan for pursuing these
matters.
97.      If the restructured and reprivatized banks are acquired by reput-
able foreign interests, the commercial banking panorama would consist
entirely of state banks (Banco Rep4blica, Banco Hipotecario) and multina-
tional banks with branches or subsidiaries in Montevideo. The Government
considers that there would then be no need for additional deposit
insurance. The State would back the official banks while the multinational
banks back their local branches. Furthermore, the off-shore nature of a
substantial proportion of the operations of the multinational banks makes
deposit insurance excessively risky for Uruguay, particularly in view of
the potential amounts to be insured and the limited control over loans to
nonresidents.
98.      These and the proposed changes should help to reestablish effect-
ive competition in commercial banking, mobilize necessary credit for
productive and commercial operations at suitable terms, and ensure more
rigorous oversight of all financial institutions. The importance of
achieving these goals, after protracted distress in the banking system and
several flawed remedial activities, is considered sufficient to justify the
Bank support recommended under the proposed SAL II. Annex IX lists the
main steps related to these activities.
99.      Another important element for the success and sustainability of
the financial reforms is the modernization of the legal framework governing
capital markets and exporting activities. As a result of the forced
conversion of peso debts into dollar debts, when they became due before the
1982 devaluation, firms confronted quickly escalating debts. A special
envirdnment developed among firms, who questioned the forced conversion,
and banks found it increasingly difficult to recover loans. The recovery
problem extended to debtors who were in a position to pay.
100.     The Gover.anent is moving to strengthen legislation and speed up
civil judicial procedures against borrowers to restore normal conditions to
business and credit transactions. This is critical to restoring crtdi-
bility to the legal system's capacity to provide a sound framework for the
conduct of business and the settlement of obligations.



- 30 -
101.     Under the program, a civil procedures law was approved by Parlia-
ment in late 1988. The law establishes oral procedures (instead of the
current lengthy written procedures) and other procedural changes that have
strengthened legal act'ons in general and shortened the time required to
bring all judicial claims to a conclusion, including those related to non-
payment of obligations to banks. This is expected to change drastically
the operations of the courts. To carry out effectively these procedural
changes, the 1988 budget increased the number of judges by 116 over and
above the 22 included in the 1987 budget. Administrative posts were also
increased as well as the budget allocation for new offices and computeri-
zation. The approval of the new civil procedures law by Parliament and the
corresponding funding are considered a historic event in the transformation
of the system of justice in Uruguay. The Government will also make its
best efforts to obtain Parliamentary approval of the corporation and
leasing laws, whicn it was required to present to Parliament under SAL I,
and has presented to Parliament a new legal code regulating unincorporated
enterprises. Proposed new legislation will provide reasonable guarantees
to partners and shareholders, strengthen minority rights, facilitate the
transfer of company ownership, increase reliance on equity financing rather
than debt financing, and provide the means for effective settlement of
legal disputes through the courts.
102.     To promote further the development of production for exporting,
Parliament under the SAL II program already has approved a forestry
development law and its regulatory framework, and financed a development
fund to promote forestry activities, which have been identified as activi-
ties with significant export potential and natural conditions in the
country. In addition, a free-trade zone law e.nd its regulations also were
approved. These laws represent an important step for the development of
new exports and the creation of conditions for the production of export-
ables under conditions of international competition. This is a very
healthy developmenc.
PART nV - OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
103.     Loan Amount and Tranching.  The proposed SAL II loan amount is
US$140 million. This amount is predicated, first, on the need to assist
the Government in financing the level of imports required by the economic
recovery and the liberalization of the economy, while remaining current in
its debt service obligations. The loan also would directly contribute to
the recapitalization of the failed banks under the aforementioned
restructui.ing program to prepare the ground for their future
reprivatization; For this reason, the loan amount is closely linked to
the size of the recovery program to effect a final resolution of Uruguay's
long-standing financial crisis.
104.     Of the loan, US$70 million of the loan would be disbursed in
connection with accomplishments against the macroeconomic reforms and
targets (other than those concerning the financial system). This portion
of the loan will be subject to normal tranching arrangements for quick-
disbursing loans. Disbursements will take place in two tranches of
US$35 million each, with the first to be released upon effectiveness.
Therefore, the issuance of new prudential regulation by the Central Bank
is the only special condition. The second tranche is expected to be



- 31 -
released no later than April 1990, its release would hinge on evidence of
progress in the carrying out of the adjustment program and actual
fulfillment of the specific conditionality set forth in Annex II, Section
III, (B). The timing of the second tranche release is designed to enable
the Bank to review the progress of the adjustment program, and to allow
time for completion of studies necessary to carry out some of the reforms,
e.g., public administration and management, and tax reform.
105.     The remaining US$70 million would be disbursed in accordance with
the progress in carrying out the restructuring of the banks. This
aggregate amount has been apportioned in the form of individual
allocations for each of the banks in amounts proportional to their
respective share of the total cost of the restructuring package. The
allocations are Banco Pan de AzOcar, US$26.385 million; Banco Comercial,
US$19.815 million; and Banco Caja Obrera, US$23.800 million. Each
allocation would also be available for withdrawal by each bank after the
conditions listed in the Supplementary Project Data Sheet (Annex II,
Section III, (C)) are satisfactorily met, including continued satisfactory
progress in carrying out the adjustment program. Similarly, satisfactory
progress in carrying out the restructuring program would be among the
criteria for release of the second tranche referred to in para. 104.
106.     Technical Assistance.  To assist in implementing the Government's
structural adjustment program and to help in defining additional specific
actions to be taken during subsequent phases of the program, the Govern-
ment has requested Bank support through a complementary Technical Assis-
tance Loan. Apart from financing studies connected to the reforms of the
public and financial sectors, TAL II would include funds for computer
equipment purchases for the Social Security Bank (BPS), the tax adminis-
tration (DGI), and Banco Repfiblica.
107.     Related Investment Projects.  The Bank's substantial involvement
in supporting structural changes will be complemented by the planned
participation in productive and infrastructure investment projects that
address specific sectoral and institutional bottlenecks and are intended
to further the structural adjustment program. The Bank program includes
loans for agriculture, expanding infrastructure, improving public sector
management, and manufacturing production. The agriculture loan will
continue past support of livestock and dairy production but will also
place emphasis on forestry and new export crops. The transport loan
cofinanced by Japan's EXIMBANK will improve the road network and port
administration. A power project .s under preparation to expand distri-
bution and transmission lines Ps well as built additional reserve thermal
capacity. New telecommunications and urban improvement projects are at
early stages of preparation.
108.     Risks.  Government actions in many areas give evidence of its
commitment to reform and therefore warrant additional Bank support in
order to maintain the continuity of Uruguay's return to fuller credit-
worthiness and growth. Nonetheless, implementation of the structural
adjustment program outlined for SAL II is clearly subject to a number of
uncertainties and risks, some of which also bore on SAL I. These
concern: (i) economic and social developments in Argentina and Brazil;
(ii) the extent of the worsening of the terms of trade; and (iii) the
level of rising interest rates. Also, the adjustment measures have a



- 32 -
negative impact on some interest groups (e.g., retirees), who represent a
sizeable proportion of Uruguay's voters. This increases the risks that
some portions of the program will not be carried out in a timely and
satisfactory manner. The Government is aware of the political price but
intends to proceed with the structural reform program, to which the
present authorities are strongly committed. Fifth, the restructuring of
the insolvent banks will cause uncertainties but these are overshadowed by
the need to avoid a run on, or loss of confidence in, the system and by
the higher costs of other alternatives, such as liquidation. At the same
time, the ability to run the restructured banks involves management skills
in short supply in Uruguay. Uruguayan expatriates with substantial
experience in multinational banks will be recruited. Very extensive loan
supervision and technical assistance will support the new CEO's as well as
ensure adequate Bank involvement. The risks, therefore while real, appear
manageable.
109.     Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement will be in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Unless otherwise specified by the
Bank, all purchases exceeding US$5 million would be made through inter-
national competitive bidding. Purchases not exceeding US$5 million would
be made through the normal procedures of the Borrower.
110.     The proposed loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports,
subject to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after
January 15, 1989. Public and private sector imports would be eligible,
except for military equipment and luxury consumer goods. The Central Bank
would be responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant docu-
mentation and preparing withdrawal applications under the proposed loan.
The applications would be submitted to the Bank, using the statement of
expenditures, with the detailed documentation retained by the Government
for review by the Bank as appropriate. The funds generated by the loan
would be credited to an account held by the Government in the Central Bank
of Uruguay and will be used to finance expenditures included in the
Government's medium-term program. The Closing Date will be
December 31, 1990.
PART V - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK OPERATIONS
ill.     The Government recognizes clearly that Uruguay's prospects for
sustained economic growth are closely linked to effective policies to
promote export growth mostly through volume increases, given the small
domestic market and the requirements of servicing Uruguay's sizeable
external debt. The Government's strategy, and corresponding policy
agenda, therefore, is oriented toward promoting private sector activities
by: (i) strengthening policies, incentives and specific programs geared to
expanding exports and increasing investment and savings, and (ii)
maintaining fiscal and monetary discipline. The Government has made an
excellent start in these directions. However, its task is complicated by:
(i) the disarray in the banking system and the weak financial position of
some manufacturing subsectors; (ii) Uruguay's population characteristics
(aging population, slow growth of the work force, and high life
expectancy) which increase the dependency burden on active workers; and
(iii) the unpredictable fluctuations taking place in neighboring
countries.



_ 33 -
112.     Uruguay's prospects nonetheless are favorable.  Growth prospects
(an annual average GDP growth rate of 3.8 peroent) for 1989-90 (paras.
29-36) under policies supported by SAL II are consistent witl current
international conditions and with the expected development of traditional
and new export production. This is closely linked to the performance of
dollar exports, which were very dynamic during 1986-88 and continue to be
so in early 1989. A key variable called for in the Government policy
agenda, is the continuation of reforms and policies initiated in the mid-
1970s (paras. 5-15), which have been complemented with further structural
reforms under the medium-term program supported by the policy packages of
SAL I (paras. 28, 62-63, and Annex VII) and now by those of the proposed
SAL II (paras. 45-56, 64-95).
113.     Creditworthiness and external capital requirements.  Uruguay
needs about US$1.1 billion during 1989-92 to finance its current account
balance of payments deficit and payments due to multilateral banks (paras.
39-41). Gross disbursements under IDB and Bank projects (including
SAL II) are expected to provide about one-half with the remainder to be
covered mostly by bilateral lenders, local and international dollar bond
issues, and short-term capital movements.
114.     The expected growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services
combined with MYRA II would reduce the public medium and long-term debt
service to 24 percent in 1989 and 32 percent in 1992 (33 percent and
35 percent respectively including IMF repurchases and interest, and short-
term interest).
115.     Bank Assistance Strat!M..  The Government's strategy for
stabilization and growth addresses the main issues that Uruguay confronts
and provides a solid framework for the Bank's operational program. The
Bank lending strategy is to: (i) support reforms that would enhance the
country's balance of payments and long-term ability to restore its credit-
worthiness; (ii) support preventive actions agairnst future imbalances to
preclude higher adjustment costs in the next decade; (iii) bolster key
adjustment programs that otherwise would be jeopardized by lack of funds;
and (iv) finance projects which support export growth, address specific
bottlenecks, or service needs of the economy and, at the same time,
contribute to the success of the adjustment program. The Government's
strategy and success in carrying out SAL I offers good prospects for
continuing economic growth, reducing the debt-to-export ratio, and
improving social conditions. Uruguay's record to date corroborates the
Bank's decision to expand its assistance to Uruguay. The Government has
been proceeding vigorously in the promised direction; it has also faced up
to some difficult decislons with negative political consequences to
accomplish the program objectives.
116.     Bank Lending.  Future Bank lending (projected at some
US$360 million in FY89-90) is focussed on the proposed policy-based SAL
operation to advance the major reforms the Government intends to undertake
and project lending. The project component of the lending program is
diversified to encompass the principal sectors of productive activity plus
the associated infrastructure and ancillary Government service activities
designed to enhance Uruguay's production potential. The transport sector
project already approved is part of a program that includes important
efforts (now well underway) to phase out uneconomic railway operations and



- 34 -
improve port operations. An agriculture sector operation under
preparation would finance crop diversification, forestry development, and
livestock production. A power modernization project also is under
preparation to ensure adequate electricity service reliability, reduce
losses, and improve the power company's operational capabilities.
117.     Bank lending to Uruguav as of March 31, 1989, totals
US$705.9 million (net of cancellations), of which US$205.3 million is
undisbursed. Eight IBRD loans remain under execution. One of these loans
was approved in FY88 (Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, US$22.3
million). In the past, the Bank concentrated on traditional project
lending, and the provision of medium- and long-term lines of credit, apart
from the operation supporting policy reforms in the agricultural sector
(US$60 million) and the first SAL (US$80 million). Bank lending
concentrated on agriculture, power, and transport. The operations in
power and transport financed essential infrastructure and concentrated on
strengthening management practices and planning capability, reducing power
operating costs, and establishing proper highway maintenance procedures.
In agriculture, the operations provided medium- and long-term credit
facilities, together with institution building and related technical
assistance. The FY88 Water Supply loan includes an important component of
institution building and improved financial performance of the Water
Supply Company, in line with the SAL objectives.
118.     Overall performance of Bank projects has been satisfactory. Of
late, no major issues arose regarding compliance with loan conditions;
however, demand for the agricultural and industrial credit lines slowed
during the recession and because of low international prices. As a
result, about half of the original industrial credit loan amount was can-
celled. The Uruguayan Parliament exempted loans from international
organizations from case-by-case Parliamentary approval in 1986, and eased
procurement requirements for such projects in 1987.
119.     Institutional development in Uruguay still requires substantial
efforts. Upper and middle management, in both the public and private
sectors will have to adapt to the challenges of the economy. Future
projects not only would support the infrastructure needs of Uruguay's
expanding economy, but also aim at the institutional and operational
improvement of key enterprises.
120.     IFC Operations.  IFC has made investments in Uruguay totalling
US$46.9 million (US$40.4 million in loans and US$6.4 million in equity) in
agroindustry, fishing, and banking. With Uruguay's strong emphasis on a
free-market economy and with limited state intervention, IFC is the most
appropriate instrument for the Bank Group's involvement in the development
of manufar 'ring. Given the small size of Uruguay's market, identifi-
cation efft s are expected to concentrate on export activities related to
the production, industrialization and marketing of agricultural commodi-
ties, forest products, and seafood.



- 35 -
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP
121.     Paragraphs 25-27, above describe the IMF's relations with Uruguay
and its role in Uruguay's medium-term program. The Bank has collaborated
closely with the Fund and kept it informed about the overall IBRD lending
strategy and programs. This collaboration will continue.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
122.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Execu4ive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
By Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, DC
May 16, 1989



-36-                            Statistical Appendix
Page 1 of 12
Table It WUWAJ Y - SALA1CE OF PAVVENYS  DICATUORS
.(in ell .on of USS)
197    1 1990   1     1982    1958   1984   1985   1986   1967
Exports of Goods (fob)      52s  1,059  1,216   1,028  1,046    925    854  1,088  1,189
Imports of Goods (fob)      249  1,651  1,599   1,088    740    782    675    814  1,080
Trade Balance (fob)          79   -592   -804       -15    805    198    179    274    109
Interest and
Divi den  Payments        -81   -108   -220    -844   -85    -449   -428   -871   -871
Current Account Balance      87   -692   -478    -491   -171   -129   -108        TO   -122
Foreign Exchan"
Resrve  (-increase)        -1  -158    -48       542   -197      sO      55   -274    -45
Errors and Omissions        -80    9s   -142  -1,262   -808   -114    16O    208    -98
Outstanding Medium- and
Lons-Torm Public Debt    824  1,127  1,848   1,700  2,510  2,527  2,698  2,886  8,041
U.S. Liabilities to
Uruguayans                120    258    36s      701  1,286  1,409  1,599  1,599  1,644
Exchange rate (HU per
dollar endof year)          1      10     12       84     48     74    125    181    281
Source: Control Bank, IMF
Thi*.2  UmMWO  -  _CIM.   US: Lwe OQ sshlS
Og      June  S.t.  December  Jun.   JuIy  S&t.  Oct.   NOw.  Dc.  aJ   Dbc
Reident.               se      "44    651    9g2      1030  lS    1065    998    911    719  622  S60
NonReeldent.         _4_   7S2 872           .        __    41           9.9 U9W          .mi .1 65
Tout7              1,0S9   1,4"   1,676   1.604    1.947  2.237  2.0S4  1.934  1,811  1,420 1,227  1.201
Public Sector Ualtenat Det  1,162              1,468    1.760       2.117                 2.705 2,30S  3,19
Semc: Central dInk



- 37 -                    Statistical Appendix
Page 2 of 12
Table 3: URU%UAT - PUBLIC SECTOR DEFICIT
(in percentage of GDP)
1980   1982    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988a/
Nonfinancial Public Sector       0.5   -10.0   -4.4   -3.1   -1.2   -1.4    -1.5
Central Government             0.1    -8.7   -5.2   -2.8   -1.4   -1.3    -1.9
Other                          0.3     0.1    0.1    0.       0.    -0.1      0.
Public Enterprises             0.1    -1.5    0.7   -0.3   -0.2    0.         0.4
Financina                       -0.5    10.0    4.4    3.1    1.3    1.3        1.5
Dollar-denominated Bonds    -0.7       0.8    0.5    4.3    1.4    2.1        2.0
Foreign Loans                  1.2     2.6   -0.7    0.3    1.0    0.7        0.4
Foreign Suppliers              0.4     0.5    0.2   -0.1   -0.1    -          -
Domestic Financing            -2.1     6.1    4.4   -1.5   -1.0   -1.4    -0.9
Central Bank Losses              0.      -8.3   -4.8   -3.4   -3.8   -2.7    -3.0
Total Public Sector              0.5   -18.3   -9.2   -6.5   -5.0   -4.1    -4.5
a/ Preliminary estimate.
Sources  Central Bank, IMF
Table 4 i URUGU&Y - MAXID(M DIRPOT TARiP RATES
(in percentages)
1974    1979    1985    1986    1987
Surcharges                             300       90       40      30       25
Unified Import Tariffs (IMADUNI)         18      20       1S      15       1S
Subtotal                               318      110       55      45       40
Port Charges                            18        2        1       1        1
Consular Fees                            10       4        4       4        4
TOTAL                                  346      116       60      50       45
Table 5: URVIUAY - FORIIGN CURRENCY DEPOSITS
IN PRIVATE COMECIAL BANKS
(in million of US$)
1981        1982         1984      1986    1987  1988
Dec.     Aug.   Dec.    Dec.       Dec.    Dec.  July
Commercial Banks      1,804   2,196   1,420   1,028    1.362   1,450  1,640
Source: Central Bank



- 38 -                               Statistical Appendix
Page 3 of 12
1g3,s WIM - 6.l1W UAlQX tJAIOI
Acua                            _                  ProJetin
t_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~cm
two-."  19715-1101 1990-6    19  19 19 19 19   1967     1966   1t5o    190    199    1912
MP Growth Rate                                1.6    4.8   -8.1      -1.5   0.0   7.8      8.9      0.8      8.6      4.1    4.1    4.1
P.r Capita  P Orowth Rate                     1.1    4.0   -3.5      -2.0  -0.8   6.S      8.4      0.0      8.1      3.8    8.8    3.6
Consumption Growth Rate                      0.8    8.1   -4.0       -0.1   0.3   8.4      9.4     -2.8      2.9      2.9    8.1    4.0
C.muptlon Per Cupits Gowth                    0.8    2.0   -4.4      -0.8  -0.2   7.8      8.9      -8.8     2.4      2.4    2.6    8.8
Croe Deatc Savinge/GP (year-end ptedri)    9.8   18.8   12.0         14.0  12.1  12.1    11.8       18.4    13.8     14.2   18.0   18.0
Gross National Savi/AllP (year-end period)    8.1   10.8    6.0       7.1   5.4   8.4      7.6      10.4    10.2     10.9   12.0   12.8
National Mbrginal Savings Ratw              -0.2    0.8    0.2       -1.4.J   kI  1.4    -0.8       2.2      0        0.8    0.4    0.2
Grea Znv.atmnt/GDP (year-end perlod)         10.9   18.8    7.1       9.6   6.2   7.4      8.8      10.0    12.1     18.2   13.6   14.2
Public Inveetaent/P (year-end period)        8.9    8.4    2.9        2.7   2.9   8.1      8.6 i      .1     8.1      8.2    8.6    8.6
Private Invests"n/D  (Year-end period)       7.0   18.2    4.2        6.0   5.8   4.8      8.2      6.9      9.0     10.0   10.2   10.6
arog. Itcremenal CplitaliOtput Ratio          6.8    4.4   -4.1       1.8     /   1.2      1.8      7.0      2.0      2.9    8.2    a.8
Iwporte @NS/8OP (ear-end perio)              19.0   2s.7   19.9      20.6  20.0  18.6    19.7      19.1    20.5      20.4   20.5   20.9
Reel Import sFS, P_ena Growth Rat             1.4    9.2   -9.4      -6.1  -2.8  28.5    10.1       -0.1    11.7      8.9    3.0    6.9
xportpe GIM/40P (yearen  period)             14.6   17.8   22.6      28.6  24.0  2S.8    21.8      22.9    22.6      22.7   22.9   28.0
Itom  Eaporta OM, A-nua Grasth Rate           6.0    0.4    0.7      -2.1  -0.8  16.2    -8.8       6.0      6.0      8.4    4.1    6.0
Interest Public Mledium- end Long-Term
(a) Payamntejm  (year-end period)            6.2    6.6   20.4       22.0  28.0  20.0    21.0      20.8    20.2      19.9   16.4   16.6
(b) Paynto IP                                                                      8.0     8.1      4.9      4.7      4.8    4.8    4.0
Iwport Elaeticlty                            0.9    2.0    8.0       2.6      v   8.8      2.4     -1.4      8.0      1.0    0.9    1.7
Current Account (period overage annual
eill l  6)                               -62.9 -281.0 -25.0   -129.0 -100.0  72.0  -24.0         0    -190.0i/ -233.0W-198.02 -21S.0O
Current Aaccnt/WOP ( Ie-year averag
or anua)                                   -2.8   -8.1   -4.6      -2.4  -2.1   0.9    -1.8        0      -2.8     -2.7   -2.1   -2.2
@avwl       _ eev.t Nemr-id swloda
Current Rvenuea/U0P                          16.9   20.9   19.9      18.4  19.9  21.8    21.9      22.4    22.6      28.0   28.5   24.0
Current Expendlturoe/40P                     21.8   18.8   20.9      21.6  20.9  21.8    21.2      22.0    21.8      21.4   22.0   22.5
Current SurpluUP                             -4.6    2.6   -1.0      -8.2  -1.0   0.5      0.7      0.4      1.0      1.6    1.5    1.8
Capitel senditurea/WP                         2.0    2.2    1.8       1.8   1.8   1.8      2.1      2.8      2.1      2.0    2.2    2.8
Overall oetii/401P                           4.6    0.4   -2.6        5.0  -2.8  -0.4    -1.4      -1.9    -1.0      -0.4   -0.7   -0.8
a _asogbow&i                   u             8.9    5.4    2.9        2.7   2.9   6.1      8.6      8.1      8.1      8.2    8.6    8.6
ifeaml M_li DA& Ivona-ad mee4edl
Publ le Medium- end Loe-tera
Debt Service/301                            -     12.9   88.0      82.8  88.8  22.5    28.7       29.0d/  24.lj/   27.4dd  29.5d  31.74/
Dbt/1P Ratlo                                -     18.1   81.4      80.1  82.9  48.6    52.2       48.4    42.2     40.7   40.0   89.2
Debt Servlce (in WI miliIon)              226.5  197.8  410.0    482.0 424.0 354.2   480.0    594.0d/ 87.0d   616.0GA  S2S.Oj/ 812.0/
Total Pulic De  Service/X
(includes IW rqeurchae  and
Intereat on abort-t e  publI debt)        -       -     89.0      82.6  40.7  29.0    84.6      29.6    82.7      86.8   85.7   84.7
S/ (MP Increment negtive; eving  Increment p _ itlive.
L/  doteronedi diviwor ( iP incree) Is 0.
/ _aed n the currnt petrolem price projections. if pricee are hlgher, each deficit vi II increase by about USSI-8 mi  lIon per USt increase
In the price of oil.
l Includes   lo iereat charse and Interest on Government short-term debt.



Statistical Appendix
Page 4 of 12
Table?:t WUUAY - PR EDW     CAPITAL             , 19
(in el lea oft USI)
Total
1989      1990        191      1902   1986-92
Currant Account atlance                   -190      -238      -198       -218     -68n
1. Long-Trs Copital MIe_mnts (Ntt)         165       218        178        198     "4
Direct Foreign Inveatmnt                 5         156       1          15     60
World Bank (total not dlbureemmnt)     69         U4         6          1     1S 
Gross Disbure_ente                   (180)      (81)      (55)      (60)   ( 820)
of which:  SAL II                  100)       (40)      (-)        (-)   C 140)
Projects                  (80)      (41)       (68)      (60)   ( 186)
Amortization                        (-41)      (-47)     (-49)     (-69)   (-196)
IOD  (not)                              18        20         16        28       74
Gross Dieburn_mnlt                    40        46         46       s0       194
Amortizati ons                       -27       -26        -28       -87     -120
Comorclol Banks, Suppler,, Japan,
Dollar Bond. and
Other L.T. Creditor. (not)            78       144        189       159      t40
2. Ibsut-teu, Erie,  and bleelene
and OObw                                 5         20        20        20       65
6. ChanOg I istBoer.                         0          0         0         0        0
IMF (Noet Credit)                     -105      -127        -42       -25     -29
Other Foreign
Resrve Change  (not)                 105        127        42        25      299
Source: Attechment
Without the SAL, Un nt dieburaen *areestimatedto be -0 mllio.
Table 0: IWWAT - IRAURY M
Nominal     Amount   Maturity  Amorti-   Out-        Last         Market   Rate of
Boand               intrest    (million  (years)   zation   standing AmortizatIon   Value    Return
tsue                   (3)      deollaro)                                               (X)       (3)
Flr.t     '       UBOR           12.1      8 1/2      1.9    10.9       Sept. 15, 199   103.00     10.6
Second            LIMOR + 2.00   21.9      8         17.0      4.9      Aug. 1, 199    103.00     14.0
Third             LIBOR * 2.00    9.9      7          2.0      7.9      Aug. 1, 1902    104.60     11.8
Fourth            LIOR * 1.00   78.6       7          0.9    72.6       Dec. 16, 1904    94.70     18.0
Fifth             LIMO0  + 1.50  189.6     7          2.4   167.2       Dec. 15, 1904   108.00     11.0
Sixth             LIOR + 1.76   24.0       7          0.6    28.2       Sept. 15, 1995  101.60     11.4
Seventh           LIOR + 1.75   40.0       7          0.2    89.6       Nov. 15, 1998   104.50      11.4
Eighth            UBOR + 1.75   86.0       7          -       $6.0      Feb. 15, 1990   108.60     11.1
Ninth             LIBMR + 1.75   72.0       7         -       72.0      Feb. 1, 1996    108.50     11.8
Tenh              LIBOR + 1.60   65.6 0               -       6.6       Aug. 80, 10M   108.10      11.7
Source: Central Bank



40 -                    Statistical Appendix
Page 5 of 12
Table 9s URUGUAY - SUIOARY ACCOUNTS OF PRIVATS COMMERCIAl BANRS IN DISTRESS
SEPT 30, 1988 (in million of US$)
it                                 (2)
Banco   Banco               (1)    Private
Pan de   Caja     Banco    Sub-   Banking        Ratio
Az:car  Obrera  Comercial  Total  System a/   (1)/(2)
A. Assets
Cash and bonds         70      43         43      156        622      25.1Z
Performing Loans       75      53         63      191       1104      17.2?
Pesos                24      36         24       84        248      23.02.
Dollars              51      17         39      107        856      12.5?
Nonperforming loans   39       10         1,       66        361      18.0?
Pesos                 5       8         13       26
Dollars              34       2          4       40
Interbank Acc. (net)   2       19         14       35        111
Other Assets (net)      2      12         31       45         80      57.8Z
Total Assets        188     137        168      493       2278      21.72
B. Liabilities
Deposits              257     184        207      648       2088      31.0?
Pesos                38      77         82      195        397      49.1?
Dollars             219     107        125      453       1741      26.0?
C.  Net worthbl           -69      -47       -39     -155        190
Uncollectible and
doubtful loans
(adjustment)         -69     -51       -55      -176      -373       47.2?
Other (net)             0       4         17       22        564
Total Liabilities
and Net worth       188     137        168      493       2278      21.7?
a/ Excludes Banco Rep%lblica.
b/ After adjustment for uncollectible (fallidos) and doubtful (dudosos) loans.
Notes The above data was derived from Central Bank and consultants. Loans
were classified into the following categories: (i) performing;
(ii) nonperforming (improductivos, which are those where the principal
is expected to be recovered, but current conditions such as
profitability, or liquidity of the borrower, affect the ability to meet
scheduled interest payments); (iii) doubtful (dudosos, which are
substandard loans with a high probability of partial or total default);
and (iv) uncollectible (fallidos, which are those that do not warrant
consideration as bankable assets, although they may have some recovery
value). Uncollectible loans were considered as losses and doubtful
loans had been provisioned in full in arriving at these estimates.  In
the analysis, large proportions of the banks' portfolios were evaluated
as well as all loans over US$5000,000. Individual files were reviewed
to identify credit weaknesses or other potential problems in accordance
with normal auditing procedures. The coverage was also extensive: Pan
de Az6car, 61.8 percent of the total portfolio; Caja Obrera, 89.5
percent of the dollar portfolio and 36.9 percent of the peso portfolio;
and Commercial, 59 percent of the dollar portfolio, and 49.8 percent of
the peso portfolio..



Statistical Appendix
- 41  -                                Page  6 of 12
Table 10:  URUWA   - CAPITAL  _14IREMERS
(-o Wille" of US$)
Pan de CnJo
Asvcar  Obrra        CouercIal    Totol
1.  To cover negatlwv  nt worth   69.0             47.0           89.0       166.0
2.  Additional eulty for
profitable operation             81.0       28.0           61.0       110.0
Total            100.0       75.0          90.0       266.0
Peo equivalont (billlona)/               41.6        1.1         387.4       110.0
*/  At the September 19    exchange rate of 416 NU u 1 US$
xrAia 111UY - C^ 4Q           M w INuIBW  awe
AFs ^IUTWW1
(in willm  of UN
ibn de 6aar       Cius Onr  I     _mcla             fot l
j%er/Af:erg      Ibfe     ter    Ud "Ater   awfoe"/After f  Afte S/
Ratrucuri  Rn tnqturi Rrfs         ruoturl    Rostructuring
Sab and niad                          70     T0         43   48         48    48      186   .16        169
Lna (P.reruing amd N.nperforaiog) j/ 114    114          68   69        S0   s0       251    2?7       312
I..t.cban  Leeminta (Not)             2       2          19   19        14    14      so     88        86
Government gond-                      0    100           0   18          0    e0       0    268        1S7
9*&r Ar.hi  (Not)                      2      2          12   12        81    81      48      48       48
lurAlll1 A                      Q           US          Iw   2IU      1in   2W       498    488       718
28     25?         184  l14       201   207     648    64         646
NU  Aom                           -69     SI         -a    a         0      a1   -1o      110       110
iI/ 8e Table  for dotl1.
V  R.Pltallgatlin with bonds.
/ Rlieapitllatlean with bonds and qItr .quluv.l.nt.
Seat:  Cnmultant'. Reprt.



_ 42 -                     Statistical ApPendix
Page 7 of 12
Table 12: URUGUAY - PROJDCTED ANMUAL INCOME STATEMENT OF
CO)HERCIAL BANRS IN DISTRESS WITHOUT RESTRUCTURING
(in million of US$)
Banco    Banco
Pan de   Caja      Banco
Azdcar   Obrera   Comercial  Total
Financial Income                          43        46        39        128
in peso operations                    24        36        27         87
in dollar operations                  19        10        12         41
Financial Expenditures                    53        67        65        185
in pesos                              214       53        48        125
in dollars                            29        14        17         60
Intermediation Losses                    -10       -21       -26        -57
in peso operations                    -        -17       -21        -38
in dollar operations                 -10        -4        -5        -19
Operating Costs and other Costs           - 5      - 9       -12        -26
Total Net Income                     -15       -30       -38        -83
Tabl. SAs 1JMY - BMW0  TA1ffS
(tow %II I'o  of U111) _/
b4 year   year 1    yer 2   year S   yer 4   yer S
Sau* Pa. de AiGeer
Not Inee.                     -15.0      -2.0      7.0    24.0    56.0   117.0
Not wortb V/ToUI A.a.to()      S.?        4.4       4.5     0.5      7.0    11.2
Sane C*J Obrera
Not I"com.                   -80.0        4.0      12.0    29.0    06.0   180.0
Not worth //TUoal AsIet_ (U)   6.B        6.4       7.6    10.6    12.4    17.1
Sanco Cm.rsll
Not I neO.                    -88.0       1.0       2.0    12.0    89.0    84.0
N.t worth k//ToUl Aseet (3)    8.0        7.0       6.4     7.9      9.0    12.5
/ At on *xchange rate of 415 pesos to tho dollar.
y Includo Vuluacl6n de Activoe'. Minimu capital requir_eent now Is 6 percent.



_ 43 -                  Statistical Appendix
Page 8 of 12
Table 14: URUGUAY - FINANCING THE RBSTRUCTURING OF TRE COUMERCIAL BANKS
Amount
Item                                                       (USS millions)
Cost of Restructuring and Recagitalization
Banco Pan de Az6car                                              100
Caja Obrera                                                       75
Comercial                                                         90
Sub-total                                                 265
Liquidation
Banco de Italia                                                   30
Total Cost                                                 295
Financing (New capital or equity-equivalents)
Central Bank
Cancellation of claims on Caja Obrera                          20
Reduction of cash reserve requirements (all three banks)    26
Sub-total                                                  46
Banco Reo6blica
Capitalization of Losses (a grant to reduce the banks'         32
liabilities)
Loan to CND                                                    16
Liquidation Bance de Italia                                    30
Sub-total                                                   78
Central Governuen
Capitalization CND (tax revenues)                              35
Loan to CND                                                   105
Sub-total                                                 140
Management of Banks
Staff Reductions                                                7
Portfolio recovery (guarantees)                                24
Sub-total                                                  31
Financing Restructuring Total                                    265
Liquidation Banco de Italia                                       30
TOTAL FINANCING                                           295
Memorandum Items:
Restructuring of Three Banks
1. Intra-transfers (accounting transactions)                   52
Cancellation of Claims on Caja Obrera (BCU)                20
Capitalization of Losses (BROU)                             32
2. Cash & Transfers                                           156
capitalization CND (tax revenus (Central Government)        35
Loan to CND (BROU)                                          16
Loan to CND (Central Government)                          105
3. Other Measures                                              57
Staff Reductions                                             7
Reduction of reserve requirements                           26
Portfolio's Recovery                                        24



Statistical Agpendix
Page 9 of 12
Table 15s  URUGUAY: ESTIMHTED L1QUIDATION COSTS
(in million of USS)
Banco Pan    Banco Caja    Banco
de Az1car      Obrera    Comercial  Total
Deposits                            257           184         207      648
Less:  Cash and Bonds                70            43          43      156
Other Assets (net)             2           1.2          31       45
Sub-total                  185          129          133      447
Lesss Performing and
Non-performing
Loan Recoveries
(a)  3 years                 86            47           60      193
(b)  5 years                  71           39           50      160
(c) 10 years                  44           24           31        9
(a) Net Financial Costs       99           82           73      254
(b) Net Financial Costs     114            90           83      287
(c) Net Financial Costs     141           105          102      348
Plus:  Personnel indemnizations      11            11          22        44
(a) Total Costs             110            93           95      298
(b) Total Costs             125           101          105      331
tc) Total Costs             152           116          124      392
Memorandum Itemst
Restructuring Costs              100            75          90      265
(a)  Additional Costs of          10           18            5       33
Liquidation
(b)  Additional Costs of          25           26           15       66
Liquidation
(c)  Additional Costs of          52           41           34       127
Liquidation
Sources Consultant report and Tables 9 and 10.



Statistical Appendix
- 45 -                    Page 10 of 12
Table 16a URUGUAY - COMP1AESON OF ESTIMATED COSTS OF
DIHDIATS SAL5 AND RISTRUCTURING
(in allilon of US$)
Banco        Banco
Pan de        Caja       Banco
Azdcar      Obrera   Comercial    Total
Immediate Sale
Government Costs
Liabilities minus adjusted
value of assets                   69           47          39       155
Non performing loans
(501 of value                    14            5           8        27
Other investments
(502 of book value)               7            7          16        30
Subtotal                   90          59           63      212
Acquirer Costs
Capitalization                     31           25           47      103
Personnel Reduction                 -            3            4        7
Subtotal                   31          28           51      110
Total Costs             121          87          114      322
Restructuring
Government Costs
Liabilities minus adjusted
value of assets                  69           47          39       155
Capitalization and equity
equivalents                     31           28          51       110
Subtotal                 100          75           90      265
Lesss Recovery on Sale
(price assuming 702 new
capital)                        22           18          33        73
Subtotal                  78          57           57      192
Accuirers Costs
Payments to Government             22           18          33        73
Subtotal                 100          75           90      265
Sources Consultant and Bank estimates
Table 17.  URUGUAY - DEPOSITS AND AIMMSTRATIVE COSTS
(in million of NU pesos)
Administrative
Bank           Deposits           Costs              Percentage
(as of Dec. 1988)
Pan de Az6car         109,371             4,268               3.92
Banco Comercial        94,201            8,748                9.32
Caja Obrera            75,201             6,397               8.52
Total            278,773            19,413                7.02
Sources Banks Statements and consultant report.



-46                        Statistical AVpendix
Page 11 of 12
Teble us  UIinAv - ST*W m .ucri.s.      no
deed
A864r            We  _bo                          Ce_relol
Current  Currnt      After     Rgdu-   Current      Afte    Red,-
As. Group  Worker.  Worher  Reetrwutri   ti..     Workers  R"truewtrln  tie"
20 - 80    124      2         201         s        101      1t0          21
t - 40    1i        r          90         1?       100        70         s0
41 - C0     a       11       120         01       I7        100         77
51 - 40     es   *12          20         11i       so        in         110
over0 1s    i             * 45            a         58 U                 2
tel      424      915       Soo Y11              60         650       26
Soims  _-es. Cja Obroen, Bee. Comerols.
Table 19   URWUAT - BAUO RPULICA AND COWM CIAL BAM.S, SWIT. 30, 198
(in billion pesos)
Banco'
Banco       Private   Rephbllca's
Rep6blica   Banks a/ Share of Total
Assets
Cash. bonds. international reserves (net)    121              38
D3metic Credit (net)                           558         611         47.7 2
Public Sector (net)                           12          59
Interbank Accounts (net)                     177          40
Private Sector                               369         512         41.8 2
Other Assets (net)                             109         171
TOTAL A5531M                                    768         820
Liabilities
Deposits                                       440         741         59.3 2
Private Sectors                              399         741         35.0 2
Pesos                                       (93)    (140)        (39.9 2)
Dollar                                   (306)    (601)        (33.7 2)
Public Sectors                              41          _
Pesos                                   (18)        (-)
Dollars,                                (23)        (-)
Net worth                                        348          79       440.5 2
TOTAL LI*U LITIDS                                786        620
a/ Classification followed in the Bulletin.
Sources Central Bank Bulletin, No. 100, September 1988.



47 -                      Statistical Appendix
Page 12 of 12
Table 20s URUGUAY - COMMERCIAL BANRING CREDIT, 1983-1988
(in percentage.)
December                                    Cozmercial
of                  BCU       BROU         Banks al        Total bl
1973                    -       47             53             100
1978                    -       35             65             100
1979                   0.2      29             71             100
1981                   0.1      26             74             100
1983                  17 c/     29             53             100
1985                  16        36             47             100
1987                  10        40             50             100
1988 (August)          9        43             48 di          100
a/   Credit to residents; excludes credit to nonresidents.
bI   Excludes the Mortgage Bank.
c/   Reflects Central Bank's portfolio purchases from commercial banks
which explain the large drop of the commercial banks' share since 1983.
d/   The failed banks in the orbit of Banco Rep6blica represent about
17 percentage points out of the commercial banks total.
Source: BCU.



- 48-
umnv - MlwACM
A.  Sharee of   0/0Y (U)                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proj.ct.ed (S6ae.aa of CDP
Historical (shares of 00P In current Wrce.)                                        PFraI    inlf COfletUftt 1960 VPiC#0e)
1965     1978       1960       1903      lew      190      1906      19"7     1to6    1909      1992     1997
Gro*. Domestic Product *.P.        100.0    100.0       100.0     100 0     10.       100.0    100.0    100.0   100 0   100.0    100.0    100.0
Not Indirect To**.              7.2     13.4        1S.?      12.4      13.0     13.3      14.0     14.8     14.0    14.0      14.0     14.0
Agriculture                    18.7     16.0        9.6        9.0      10.8     10.0      11.8     11. 3    10.9    10.7      10 1      9.8
Industry                      80.1      28.0       20.2      20.0       27.5     20.7     20.7      27.4     26.3    26.8      29.1     30.3
L f  hch: Manufacturing)       ..       .        22.3       20.7      22.9     22.4     22.4      22.0     23 6
of  hI ch:  Wi;n Ino)                   *.                                        .       ..        .
rI-O"am                       49.0     46'.0      40.8S      52.0      49.2     49.4     46.1      46.9     46.6    46.9      46.9     46.7
Resource Balance                     7.0      1.2       -5.06       1.7       4.1      4.0       8.3      2.0      3.1      0.8      2 1      2.7
Eaporte of  65F                19.      18.6       15.0       24.2      24.8     24.0      28.4     20.6     22.8    22.6      23 0     23.7
Imports of ONF8                12.0     12.6       20.6      22.5       20.4     20.0      16.1     10.86    19.1    22.5      20.9     21.0
Total Expenditur,es                 93.0     98.8       103.6      96.3      95.9     961.0     94.7     96.      96 2    97 6      97.6    97 5
Total Cotsumstion                   82.      66.2       66.3    S6I.A        66.0     07.9      07.3     692      66.2    65.6      63.7     63.0
Pri'ate Consumption            67.6     72.0       75.8       74.5      78.5    74.0       74.1     75.9     73. 5    72.6     71 4     71.4
General Oov.rneent             14.7     14.2       12.5       13.9      12.5     18.1      13.2     12.6     12.7    13.0      12.3     11.6
Gross Dowestic In,estment           10. 7    12.6        17.       10.0       9.9      6.2       7.4      6.6      10.0    12.1     14.0     14.4
Fiwed Investment               10.7      6.9        16. 7     11.0       9.8      7,4       7.8      6.0     10.0   12.0       14.0     14.2
Changes In Stocks                3. .6              0.6       -1.0       0.6      0.7       0.1      0.8        . .    0.1       . .     0 2
Capacitky to Import                   .         .          .         ..         .        ..        .        ..    22.6    22.0      21.6     22.
Tem  f Trade Adjustmnt             .         .         .          .         .         .        .         .       .
0Gross  =oetic In..                    .        ..         .          .        ...                          .        .
Gross Naetional Ince..                          .          .         ..         .        .         .        .
Gross National Product              96.      99.        94.0       94'.7     93.1i    98.8      98'.7    96.3i    9s'.1i   96.0     9.7      97.8
Gross Oalstic Sav Ing.              17.7     13.6        11.7      11.6      14.0     12.1      12.7     11.3      18.6    13.6     15. 0    25.6
Net Factor Incaoe              -1.1     -0. 9      -1.0       -5.8      -6.9    -6.7       -4.8     -3.7    -8.9   -4 0        -3 3     -2.4
N4.ct Current Trasnfere           0      0.0        0.0          0         0        0         0        0      0.6      0.1      0.1      0.1
Or... National Savings              16.6     12.9        10.8       6.8       7.1      5.4       6.4      7.6     10.0      9.7     11 a     13.2
S. Growth Rates (3) at Constatnt Pice.                           Actual                                             Prelila.            Projecti~on
1908-78  1978-00    1960-67       1983      1964     1968      1966     19187    1966    1969  19687-92  1992-968
Groee Oo.eetic Product ..p.          2.4      4.4        -1.8      -6.0      -1.4      0.2       7.5      5.9      0.5      3.6      8.4      4.1
Met lndirect TA...             18.6a     4.8       -1.2       -8.9      -1.5      0.1       6.8      5.1      1.2     8.6       8.4      4.1
Agriculture                0.4       2.0        0.2       2.1       -6.6      4.5,     6.7       0.6      0.6     2.0       1.8      2.0
Industry                   1.4       6.2       -3.2    -11.9         0.41    -8.2     10.1      10.6      1.0     4.0      3.9       5.2
of which; Nanuifacturinig)  .       ..        -1.6      -7.0       2.8     -1.6      12.1     11.0    -8.7       3.6      3.9      8.2
ofwhich: Mining)          .         .          ,          .         .        .        .         .        .
Srvi;coo13                            .        -0.8       -4.7      -1.       10         .2      6.       2.4     8.6      8.4       4.0
Resource Bel Iance                     .        .          ..         .        ..         .        .       ..        .
Esxporte of  IPS               -0.1     11.4        8.7       15.4       0.7      5.3      14.7i    -9.5      8.1     8.4       4.6      5.2
leporta of OM                  9.0       7.6       -4.9      20.1    -14.9        1.6     23.4      10.1    -0.9    11.8        5.3      4.4
Total Expendigures                   8.6      4.1        -2.6   -11.49       -4.1     -0.7       7.5      9.4      1.1      8.4      4.0      4.4
Total Consumption                    8.S      2.5        -1.4      -6.0      -4.6      1.4       6.4      9.41    -2.6      2.9      2.2      4.0
Private Consumption             3.6      2.2       -1.9       -9.0      -8.6      1.1      9.41      6.8    -8.7      2.9       2.1      4.2
General Gowerowant              1.9l     4.8        1.1      -2.9        0.6      8.2      8.6       8.0      2.5     2.8       2.5      2.5
Orose Domestic Inveetmant            4.0     17.4      -12.5    -86.6         1.'   -16.9    -0.6        25.8     15.9    24.8      18.7      4.6
FI.ed Investment                8.2     16.4      -18.5    -82.6    -13.8   -28.2          6.2      19.1     15.9   24.5       13.7      4.6
Ch.ntge  In Stock.s.                      .           .         .         .         .        .         .        .
Capaci-ty to Ilowrt                  3.1      3.7        3.0        5.0      -4.6      1.5    88.1    -8.6         6.6     0.5       3.7      4.6
Terms of Trade Adjustment             .         .          .          .        .         .        .         .        .
Gross Domestic Incoeo                2.6      8.4        -1.       -7.6      -2.4     -0.6i      9.6      6.0      1.8     3.0       3 2      4.2
Gross National Income                2.8      8.8       -2.0      -10.1      -8.9     -0.6      12.5      6.8      1.6     2.9       8.4      4.'2
Or.." National Product               2.4      4.4        -1.0      -6.8s     -2.6      0.8       9.2      5.6      1.5    3.6        8.6      4 4
Oro". Domwetic Savings              -2.9     18.0       -1. 1      -8.9      16.6   -14.A       21.4    -S. 5     29 7     3 6      10 8      5 3
Not Feacto Incm                  .        .
Not Currant Tranafrer..                    .          .          .
Gross National Saving.               1.1    13.57        -6.6    -81.5        8.4   -25.3       so 7     11.3    48 0       0CA     15 3      7 2



ASSX IV
-49 -                                                      Ps2o 
URIVl - WtM Acos
C. pls,e I41tei (O    t1001
..,,,,,,,,,,,,. ...     .
Aett*                        tPOO40.1    Grow th     Xet
.-................................................................................................
1980    19103    1944    194s    to"     1"? I9S13? i9-40  9I-III
.-.... .....  ....  ...   ...   ...   ...   ...   ...
C.     ss Prins (Its Go             10o.0    L.o   249.4   436.S  113.?  14)6.4    9.3A   40.5    13.9
*slae"le Pulne  UP$ 43              10O.C  914.6   4).9   757.3  AsS.9  uo*.2           t.4*   S4    6s.a
lqilela GO **lt.s                   100.0   231.9   3.t    70.9  1156.0  1923.1    01.1    $11-.,   5.
tepl    Sita  gluro    1.40.0   3)).?   07.4    43.9  1119.2  1910.4    51.9    9.                     54.9
4rleulbrI 56w                    1J0.0   in.?   34.9   4.4  It".?  3010.8   $57.1             t.1.    59.4
IOtei&t  $StAS                    CO.0   250.9  411.S   74.  12n.3 a 019.3    46.?  $5.5    56.1
servie"e g.eg                     10C.0   2)9.3   340.1   #0?.4  1083.4  1746.1    12.9       9.4,   55.
O. 08. ZeiI.tGS
toll-so 1960.6? 1917-93 19,92-96                              I9?     k966    194?
........... ........................... ....... ....... .
UqelatIm                             60.3    0.4   .      0.35                      ett        1.?    to.?   15.3
1..b.~ tee.e                          .-     0.7  0.7   0.7                       &wtg      ,  3. 2       .1    24.9
Dm8 3sat1   teem  P.C.               3.0    -2.9   2.9   3.9                                    Ss.i.  Sal I 9.1   59.8
ftivat, t_ewlU P.C.                  1.?    -2.3  2.1    3.7                    tWL              1oo     o0o    100
Zepet SIatIetpwit
toperts(65r   I oC.)                 1.?      .8   1.4   L.0
Irasolswtep1eetea                      0.j    0.7  0.4   0.2
caes ifttlms Swiue          _         0.4    4.5  0.4   02-
gen  Ommete Sast91
2.9  *i2.1   3.3   3.4
tcO  (tpeal  a,.)
t. LCD  t 19O Corsetist P0lee   is  kiIIons
.....~~~.                    .....  ._._.....................
aetml                         IP.eIia.J                 Deot*seee
...... .....   ......  ..... .    ...   ......  ...... ....... ....... ....... .......
1980    1933    194      191    196      196?    196      194     199     1991    1992
Gas  aemetle Pre          *.t.         9t       s0      ?9      79       St      U      89      92      96        100     104
got tAilset tae                      Is       is      tl      it       1t      is     12      12      13         1.      13
44rlaut.                              9       9        6       9       9        9      9      10       10        10      l0
t      ytti 2                                 t 19   1       is       s0      23     25      26      27         29      i 3i
(of gusad   "ta6wn og                21      IS       16      11       11      19     21      22      23         2i     2o
set                                                                                   4 9  *; 1  43  5  4  44   4S  41 3  47
bt.eregd                                1        3M      9       S        9       1      3       2        1         1       .
tbort  of W$                         14      19       I       1        16 I             20   21      20        2U       !4
(o"eu        w et                            13       Is      It  11           1    0 17      19      19        20  : 0
te3al exte1sA m?                               is      i1s     74       40      g1     66      90      95         9;    100
Tatat Co_eenl .'e Om                           70      6?      GO      7?       i      78      77      79         Si      84
ffivettCoeo6 loin,                  70      St       Ss      S6      "I       46     67      6       67        6'       71
Gem""a6veu                          It 11            12      12       is      13      1t     12      12        IZ       13
"                     _1emetM           6        6       *       6        6       6      9       I1      13        1.      15
Fix"tetw" b"                         is       9        I                        1      9      11      12         13      14
@ineeblt.                            ..       ..      ..      ..       ..             .    .            I         I       I
Capclty to tope                        14       14      19      14      1t       1t    20       20      '1         22      23
Teo   onef 1Tr  e                       0      -1      -.2      .        0        1      1        1       1         1       1
cM* ee atls .1mn                       93      79       ?       16       6*      s*     39      92      95         99     103
Grcea tl.m ataoi                       91      is       72      i2       at      64     85      8a      91         95      99
Gee   liat'im9rodst                    91      To       74      79       et      6s U    6      89      92         96     100
Cre  _osmoticeUauIwIs 1                         9       1o 0     9       10       *     12      13      14-        1       16
tte *zete gauns          *           1       .4   *                    *S     . 3      3      -4      -4        *3
set Cotrat Temtla                     0       0       O        a       0        0
Ctres lat1i SrIM                       to       S        5       9       a        I      9       9      10         1.'     12
....... .........   ....                     ......   ... ......... . .
ItC  11/8U



- t- t              ** +   ooo glot    MIeo I'll   toot                                            1t t102
**C~~~~~~~1C  (Sg tlw t-l *-                             I I**                            WM so)tt@tgO  *  
t    .4    I. I- **1 *a    Mn                                                          MM*o *w
It-t *t       t4 119*              Iti        C1 A'l"    clo t-   t-lc                             -
rVt 1    t.tl,..to   I
0-f  Too    Olt    *-6   I*-   t-tf    soo           n    st II     tt"   *-I                     "M     M
Q-   Ot t             I- I*    * .    Mt O   lo    fl4 0-   lt   Al-t      *                *        _    *r
Olftt- of       f     * I    to    90              *-       tot   CIO      *-                       _ wlul-
.olt   t:'      It         . I        1 C'  C'S    f t  I'       Gott
"-St~ ~ ~ ~~~~~96                    flat   Cot It ts_t    olt *10t_t -
___ ...................,,__.. _._........._....._.__......... ___.=;-:... __;._._.
seaTid 149"M  "  (t  *"V11 qw29 1* O"sd  Zs" 149 (011 o    9tt)   *t   *a   I
ttit It m      tcz   t ttz  f-tt    r xS-6T   r l            at-g    *'S    L'9    n,0      n      ps  t4  l04 11=0
:,lt   otot    $,to    919        ilto t*z1  fits    ZI        J,g    gle    914    0,0               quf   "T
ttb VVTt V'1     9191    ol    t       tlm   510       t'" oli  4.9    vv      _1 ,0                   uf     Tm
169    191t    14 9   "V      OfX     "I      wit   *1        at    GM       aft    iu          GM    Vs" Uo    ""a
" v-tSt    it    "I: t           t it:t                                             in -n                        pit"
Ost   Ott    got        ttt   It      tctt     "I    0l w to                 u    t    010 
Ottl    *      fft 96   ost   t.lV                    10lot           tX0 101   *IS                                -    t
110     selg   osT   nlt    uX"    Olt         els    r       *t     Otl r    r      0,01t8
&'vI    tt      nr6 lt   tnj    ttt9   clog    O,"    Ot11  t*nt11  *let . ,10                           opeof emom
els 4t O9 et    t   131ttE   tI       0 Ion    6tt    *m If    0.6    Sito  OSit   rlni                a"imto
93VS   ctlot Ist tK &,i   tt I it Cot    #,Stl   *lt    '4ln   1tt0,            1 t     *`f    *WV  
,11oft                 KClt I     sstX@t V tt tK   sell    gotn   ",I  W      "a    Omtlt|j#w||t1
bs~~ot    WV,                      t      " "     @  @ t    off   M " *
tit -W           -g  _ _, ,,    OC       61       m      "Ia   '-I*   of       t
|>t" ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ $I141 t                       0 0MM                                   k
....t  _'i   r.,,, _go   Col    _ac   r._  _og _-p    ett                                 o
rtit  Dw    coln 48041Oof011O*
vit   Colvr                                        Usl 
9,6    POtt fr-CifIm ri    ,t                            058 0-8        o     el     fw                       "s Am



- 51 -
AcbmiNISMY - WlAo of PA
Wo8.111m a-   Cuat nPic
Acua                             11et 13.                       ProJeoIeo
.  bEml 0           C)          1          1        1S11 1,              11W8    lStl    19U1       111W  W11  0    lWl-   19 1Mtl
A.  Esports of Good. A NPS       1526       1300        1289     1253       1wo      15S4     1720     1ss7     1930   2068      2236     3303
1. Nerchandlae (FM0)        1OS9       1045        925       854      loe      1169     1381     1471     1534    1644     1775     25s8
2. Non-factor Sorv Ice.      468        2ss       a3s        399        412      365      359      386      ss6     425      461      705
S. Import. of Good. A NFS        2126       1194        1067      1033      1180     1405     1448    1I26      1828    1941     2138     309s
1.  e%rchandisa  (F0o)      lst        740        732       675       sts      1080     1124     1326     1410    1504     1674     2460
2. Ion-fawtor Service.       476        4S5       a38        357        36s      325      324      400      419     437      484      640
C.  Roeurce Salanco              -600        105        222       220        320      149      272      131      101     127       98      204
0.  "at Fctor Incoe              -100       -28         -32       -352      -278     -281     -293     -2       -342    -33      -326     -348
1. Fctor Recelpts             68         63         sT        77                 103       95       90 ss so                  94      110
2. Factor Payment.           1S6        850        449       428        371      384      388      419      429     424      420      45s
(interest pymnt)         121        226        29s       289       253      273      301       329      348     349      34       3a8
E.  Nt Current Transfer             9          11         10        11        25        8       21        8        8      10       10       11
1. Current Receipts           11         14         13        1S        29        1S       24       11       11      14       14       16
3*.workers r  tt.t%m         0          0          0         0         0         0        0        0        0       0        0        0
b. other curr. transfer.   11          14          18       is         2        i 1s     24       11       1l      14       14      t1
2. Current Pay_nt              3          a          3         4          4        7        a        a        a       4        4        a
P.  Current Acont Stslne.    -692           -171        -129      -i2         67    -124         0     -190     -283   -198      -218     -131
(Excluding Off. Tra .)
0.  Long-Tem Capitol Iif eI    404           637         28         59      1i8       130      110      161      193     104       80      175
1. Not Direct Inveatmant   290           -6         -3        -8        -5        0         0        a       1is     1        1s       20
2. Net Lt Loan. (R)          226         8ol        40        27        102      209       98      180      1"      163      18S      143
3. Diburmemont.            356        802        189       220       208       362      a24      319      405     451      374      7s8
b. Repayment.              13O        121        18O       193       loS      1i5       226      139      206    298    891         642
8. oher LT Inflme (net)  -111           262        -13        4v         40     -78         0        0        0       0        0        a
H    Total Other Item             406       -tse         22        123        59       39        2        3       20      20       20       so
1. Not short-tore CapItol  384         -287        1o6      -119      -1l0       188       39       12       20      20       20       30
2. Capil Fle ia.E.I.           0          0          0         0          0        0      -37       -7        0       0        0        0
3. Errora  nd Ooeaiaona       78       -249       -144       242        209     -129        0        0        0       0        0        0
I.  Change In Net Rearvea    -1t8             69         84       -41       -264      -       -100        0        0       0        0      -62
1.   et CredIt From ti         0        142        -13       128         s       -60      -64    -105      -127     -43      -26        0
2. Otier Rerv      iaongea   -118       -72         9        -18i      -2tO       1s      -        t8 105   127      43       28      42
Share  of CDP (Current U8
1.  Reaurce Dalonce              -6.1        4.1        4.2       4.5       8.0       2.0      3.6      1.6      1.2     1.4      1.0      1.3
2.  Total interet Paymnt.a    1.2            4.2         5.6       5.5       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      8.9     3.8      8.5      2.8
9.  Currant Account iblance      -7.1       -1.8       -2.7      -2.2        1.0    -1.8         0     -2.3    -2.7   -2.1    -2.2    -0.9
4.  LT Capital Inflow             4.1       11.9        0.6        1.8       1.6      1.9      2.2      2.4      1.9     2.0      1.9      1.2
S.   it Cradit from II            0.0        2.0       -o.$       2.5        0.1    -0.9    -0.9    -1.8    -1.4   -1.4    -0.5              0
_au randum Itea:
CDP Cuerrnt US16                101338       SS         5245      5207      as3s     e68e     7s29     6295     8762    9239     9839    14063
Partoln. SEchans. Roserves:
I    Intl.t e R.rves (IFS)        3 4        207        134        174      482       S30       ..           ..
2.  Gold (and-Yr London Price)  2017         993        807        8m6      1018     1146
S.  arose Raw. Intl Qold         2401        1200        942      1031      1500     1678       ..       ..       ..
4.  Or. Res. In HanWth  Imoorta   12           9          7          a        12       13       ..       ..       ..
Ecbhanam Rat" (LUCIUS1
1.  Pla. Off X-Rat. (IF)            9         35         so        lot       152      227      89        ..       ..3
2.  Real Eff. X-Rate (1900100)  100           72          69        67        6e        4      ..        ..       ..        .
3.  XK-Rte for SV Converslon        9         8S         So        101       12       227      339



- 52 -
ANNEX 
Page 5 of 7
(to  ell I  .. at  nvr.st Frio")
Actual                    t -  a"1i
A. 01      1mO                                  1t     tin       tM        Il    Ila    17   ius           19W       19n0     1991      lo     199
1. Public & Pubticly OQu. 1.                298     502     189       220    208   288        824       819      405       481    874    788
Official Crdlitor.                       S8      45      74         94    61    1t?       101       169      127       10t    127    181
Ibittleteral                             25      88      78         81     72    114       98       16       128       104     128    177
of wbichiD                               4      21      89         28     45    e4        so       in        71        85      60 
of which MA                              0       0       0          0      0      0        0         0        0         0       0       0
St I atera                               84      11        1         S     10      S        4         a        4         4       4       4
Priveat Cr,ditor,                        288     487      116       16    127    119       228        8       278       848     44T     606
supplioer                                4      16       8          4      1      7       12        12       12        15      is      15
FlaiXwi.  larkate                      2S0     441      118       161    125    112      211      18       266       82      482    891
2. Privatet4w,aranted                        G8       0       0          0      0    125        0         0        0         0       0       0
S. Aitol LT Ddiabrec_ntc                   386      802      169       220    208   862       824       819      408       481    84       788
4. IW Purcha"e                                0      162      0        108     62    as         0         0        0         0       0       0
S.  Not Short-tar, Captal                   834    -287      16O      -119   -180    18        89        12       20        20      20      30
6. Total tncl. DU&ANIt                      890    877      888        204     20   858       868       881      425       471     S"4     Sao
1.  Public   Publialy Oiar. LT               98      94     in6        124     so    154      101       18n      208       288     891     642
Officalai Creditore                      22      82      40        44    42    s44         6so                6s       7a    104    1sO
alitilaterarl                           9      20      25        29      38    84        81        69       78        77      97    148
whicbh I"                             S      14       18        19     24     25       38        41       47        49      89      88
ofuwhich MA                            0       0       0          0      0      0        0         0        0         0       0       0
eIlateral                                12      12      is         18      9     10        7        1O       12        10       a       5
Private Credlto                          72      62     s6          so    46      90       82        6o      120       201    287    820
Su" lIeIrs                                6       a       7          6      7      7        6         4        4         4       4       9
Financial Warote,                        6s      as      79         74     89    8S        25        8       116       197    268    811
2.  Private Nn-gparecteed                    87      27      24         69     18    19       12          0        0         0       0       0
S. Toul LT Rwaynto                          180     121      18O       l98    10    1iS       22       1i9       208       268     890     642
4.  iW Reurchae                              0      12       0         10     s?    98        64       105      12t        4       26o      0
8. Totl LT Repay. .1MF Reur.                1o       1       180       208    162   246       290       244      8a8       881     417    642
C. atn4reat
1. Public & Psblely Oa,. LT                 10     210     264       260    249    270       801       829      346       849    847      889
OfficialCredltores 2                             25      27        82    8        44       88        8S        0o       63      6s      n
miult laterl                             t6      16       16        24     80    38        48        48       8s        60      68      78
of wbich tR                              7       8       8         11    17    20         24        23       31        38      3S       0
of which SA                              0       0       0         0       0     0         0         0        0         0       0       0
Bilateral                                 7       9       10         S      7      6        8         S        4         4       3       2
PrIvate Creditore                        82     188     286        248    212   226       246       277      285       285    201    812
Su"pl ire                               2       2       2        82       2      2        1         2        2         3       4       7
Piaftcial Watk4t. t0                          185    255        24S    210   224        247       275      283       282     278    305
2. Private Nean- ranteed                     17      16       12         9      0      a        0         0        0         0       0       0
8. Total LT Iuterat                         121     226     298       289   249   217         301       S29      346       849     347     880
4.*   I   Servic Char"*                      0       7       17        20    27    27         28        20       13         6       4       0
8. Intere*t o" ST Oet                        __      __       --        --    42      48       45        43       42        41      41      42
6. Total tncl.  D4 A Not ST                  --      --      --         --   58    848        872       892      401       398     392     431



- 53 -
Pf. Sof?
%AWna - 65165. CW?A me am
0.  Exersl 0.1  (00)             19680    19681      1904     1965      lo6    196       1966    196      1990   19191    1992    1996
1.  Public A Publily Omar. Lt6.  112      2510      252111    2695      266     s045    8071    Om5    a4m    562         38611    456
Officilo Creditor.           885      57e        665      441       497     649      661      775     617    641       671    1100
16.161 lateral              1VJ     214        29       3u5       893      551     so?      66       786    766      600    10o3
of which lo                72      92        115      152       211      80.    345      450      AM     6a0      511      509
of which IDA               0        0          a        0         0       0        0        0       0       0        0       0
61 lateral                  181     161        146     1t6        104      99       9        90      ft      75       71      67
P.i vaet Crdi tore           794    2186        2148     gm5       258     259      2590    2460    26561  277        296     3460
Suppierse                     30       26         23       21        t6       17      02       30      80i    49        60o     9
Piseacial flarktot           765    2107        2120     2254      2578    --       2565    2480    260    2730    267        875
2.  Private #dm-unertaate         211      15N       12n        60        48     14"       19       19      19      1o       19      19
5.  Taute Lt DObh                136      a66       2657      273       2929    5192    3090    8274    3474   S5O6    866         406111
4.  VW Credit                       0      25?       2         561$0     396     892      826     228               as 6    27        0
S.  Short-Tera bebI                m2      366       892       014       564     65Gal.                     .
S.  Total intl. DV A Mat St      163      am9       am7       6919V    590      426      34831    SW9    85       36912    3656    4066'
Parcant of Toba MLI DOD.
1. On C.vgeaaionl Terms           7.6      6.1       2.9       2.6      2.4      2.2      2.2     2.2      2.3    2.8       2.4
2.  With. Variable In%. Rate.    25.4    66.        67.1      64.4      67.4    661.1    76.6    73.6    72.9   71.5    70.5
Share of Tftal Lane-Term DOD
1.  I=  as S of total             5.4      8.4       4.5      51.5      7.2      9.4    10.6    12.4    12.4   12.0    11.5    11.1
2.  MA aselof Tool                  0        0         0         0        0        0      0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0
S.  t620 *   A e   of Toal I      5.4      8.4       4.8       5.5       7.2     9.4    10.6    12.4    12.4   12.0    11.6    11.1
Share of LT 0.1 Service
1.  im  se S of Total             5 .2     6.5       5.6       6.2      11.4    10.5    10.6    138.    18.9   12.6    12.4    12.2
2.   MA aseUof Tofta                0        0         0         0        0        0      0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
5.  I"  * IDA aeS of Total        5.2      6.5       5.6       6.2      11.4    10.5    10.6    18.6    18.9   12.6    12.4    12.2
P.  DO-b  iagatsLh    *1is k
1.  tong-Term Debt/EUr.orte      668.9   181.1     1961.0   204.6    166.9   192.7   170.2   166. 1    172.5  166.7   164.4   154.
2.  Dr Credit/bpwort                0    16.1        16.1     26.0      24.6    23.7    16.1    11.5       4.8    2.5       1.2       0
8.  Short-Ter. osbI/Esporta      20.2    26.2       26.5      60.8      36.7    69.8        .       ..      .
4.  LT.119 St 0ODF Usporte      106.1   2251.4     26.6    291.5    248.5   255.-6   166.3   179.6   177.1  171.2   165.6   134.4
0.  jODtoJOP  jtt
1.  Loe-#Term Dobt/ODIP          18.2    49i.6      50.7      52.9     45.6    46.5    41.0    59.5    89.6   39.4    36 9    826$
2.  IP9Cred I I/"0                  0      4.4       4.2       6.7       6.2     5.7      4.4     2.?      1.1    0.6      083        0
S.  Short-Term oebt,P             8.2      7.2       7.5      15.6       9.1     6.7
4.  LT+394T DO/CDP           I 16.4    61.5         62.4      75.8      61. 1    60.9    45.4    42.2    40.7   40.0    50.2    32.6
II.bet Serylegi5taarbe jt/
I1.  PubliI  & 06eranteed LT     12.4    20.6       29.6      80.0     21.1    24.4    22.1    24.1    27.4   29.15   31.7    80.2
2.  Private Non-eueretotee  LT    8.4      2.9       2.6       5.6       1.1     t.5    6.9.        ..       .
8.  Total Lang-Tere Cebl Service  15.6    2.6.      82.3      35.0      22.2    25.7    29.0    24.1    27,4   29.5    31.7    50.2
4.  39AorheeevW.g                   .       .          .        .        5.2     7.2      4.9      6.4     7.0    2.8       1.31      0
S.  Interest only on ST 0.1        .        .          .        .        2.6     2.9      2.5     2.2      2.1    1.9       1.6     1.2
6.  Total (LT.39.6T Ins.)        18.6    25.5       87.S      35.6      30.1    55.9    36.5    82.7    86.5   851.7    34.7    81.4
I.  Inlareati Burden. Halls.
1.  Total lntersebP               1.2      4.2       5.6       5.5      5.0      5.1      4.9     4.7      4.6    4.3      4.0      8.1
2.  Total tntereetjluport. g/    7.6    15.5        21.4      21.5      20.0    21.0    20.5    20.2    19.9   16.4    16.         12.6
S/  Laporb. include mooclowale exports and receipte Era, non-factor ar"I ces. factor servicia and
workere riltameas..



- 54 -                                    ANEX I
STANARD ATTACHYENTS
WUWAT- EXTERNAL CAPITAL AM NUT
Actual
19n0        1968    1984   198   1966    197T  1966
I. Public Finance (X GDP)
GENERAL OVERNMENT
A. Total Current Receipt.                    22.8   21.7   13.6   19.0    21.0  21.5    22.1
1. Indirect Tax Revenue                  12.6   11.4   10.8   11.6    12.2  18.2    18.9
2. Dlrect Tax Revenues                    8.4    8.2    6.6       7.0      7.7    7.1      7.0
8. Non-Tax Current Receipts               1.2    2.1    1.8    0.9         1.1   1.2       1.2
(of which from pub. sector)          (0.5)   (1. )   (0.6)   (06)    (0.7)    
B. Total Current Expenditures                20.1   238.    21.6   20.6    20.5  20.8    21.7
1.  Interst Payments                      0.4    1.2    1.6    2.0         1.7   1.5       1.6
2. Transfer Paymnt. a,                   -       -        8.0    0.5       5.4   5.7       6.4
(of which to privale sector)         --      --       2.8    1.6       1.2   1.2       1.8
8. Goode and Services                    --      --       2.4    2.1       2.6   2.6    --
C. Current Budget Balance                     2.1   -1.8   -2.6   -1.0         0.5   0.7       0.4
0. Capital Recelpt                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1         0.1   0.0       0.0
E. Capitol Expenditures                       2.1    2.4    1.6    1.7         1.8   2.1       2.8
Fs Overall B  nce Finaned by                  0.0   -3.9   -4.6   -2.7    -1.2  -1.4    - .9
1. Official Capital Grant.               --      -- _- _   _ _
2   External Borrowing (net)              0.9    0.1    0.6    4.5         0.9   2.9 
S. Domestic Financing (net)              -0.9    8.6    8.6   -1.8         0.8  -1.5    --
G. GOP at current market prices             92204  185006  2s4859  626152  979986   1785265 2615075
(in milions of 1U2)
II. Money and Crodit -IFS
(Monstary Survey Date)
A. In millIon of LCUs at end-Yr
1. Mony Supply                           9062   14980   22160  45990   64160    185160
2. Money*Quaal Money                    85669   81660  182660  259790   478420   708180
S. Total Net Domestic Crodit            84960  152070 242690 401040  614960
a* To Government (noet) (82an)       -286   27620  61650  69940  -940
b. To Official Entitieo (J2b)         294   106    1760   8110    4670
c. To private Sector (82d)          84882  101660  148210  264440   416580
4. Net Foreign Assets ($In)              5609  21969  27810  690   171640    -
S. All Other lt_m  (not)                -5050  -92179 -187120 -210600 -308180    -
S. Effects to Expansion of MQM (S)
1. Not Foroign Asset                        9     118      10      88       47        88
2. Credlt to Governmnt                     -6    125       67       6       12        20
8. Credit to Official Entities              1       2       1       1        1         1
4. Credit to Private Sector               102    102       S1      96       69        67
S. Net Other Assets & Liab.                -6   -869    -86    -68         -45       -64
6. Ine. In Money+4usI money               100    100    100    100         100       100
tf Includes Government contribution to the soctal security as mployer.



-55                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
SUPP3IENTARY PROJECT DATA SUMKY
STUCTURAL ADJUSH  T LOAN
Section I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to Prepare Operation:
15 months.
(b) Operation prepared by: Ministry of economy and
Finance, the Central Bank, and Planning and Budget
Office with IBRD Assistance.
(c) First IBRD mission: October 1987
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1988
(e) Completion of Negotiationt May 6, 1989
(f)  Planned Date of Effectivenesss  June 30, 1989
Section II.    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated
Section III.   Special conditions
(A) The following conditions have been established for the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement: effectiveness of the new regulatory
norms of the Central Bank satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
(B) The following conditions have been established for the release of
the second tranches
(i)   satisfactory progress by the Borrower in carrying out the
structural adjustment program, including maintaining and
deepening the results of actions already taken, especially those
referred to in paras. 2-4 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(ii)   reducing the public sector deficit through strict control of
real expenditures, or through real revenue increases, to a point
where the consolidated public sector accounts (including the
accounts of the Central Bank) show revenues exceeding
expenditures net of payments of interest and other charges on
external debt attributable to the sector, by a margin of not
less than 1.5 percent of GDP;



- 56 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
(iii)   streamlining and computerizing the revenue collection unit of
the Social Security Bank (BPS), and submission to the Bank of a
satisfactory action plan to rationalize further benefits of the
old-age, survivors and disability program and balance its
finances by 992, including the preparation of administrative
measures and draft legislation for these purposes;
(iv)   upda   4 the public investment program for 1989-90 without
substantially departing from the current investment program
presented in the Letter of Development Policy;
(v)   preparation of a satisfactory action plan of further tax reforms
and increase effectiveness of tax collection; and
(vi)   separation of BROU's accounts in respect of banking and non-
banking activities.
(C) The following conditions have been established for releasing funds
under the financial sector component:
Mi)    satisfactory progress in carrying out the structural adjustment
program and those steps agreed with the Bank, including legal
ones. which are required to initiate the restructuring of
banking institutions which are insolvent;
(ii)    provision by the Government of the financial resources required
by CND to enable it to subscribe the majority shares of stock
of each bank in question; entering into performance contracts,
satisfactory to the Bank, between each restructured bank and a
person with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank, who would discharge the functions of executive officer
during the restructuring;
(iii)    designating new Boards of Directors for each bank; and
Clv)    CND has contracted a coordinator, particularly in connection
with the transfer of the banks' doubtful and uncollectible
loans to a collection agency.
(D)  If the Borrower concludes that the restructuring of any of the
banks in question has become unviable, and the Bank concurs, the Bank then
may determine that the funds allocated to such bank or banks under the
financial sector component may be re-allocated to by increasing the second
tranche amount. The re-allocated funds will then also be made available
for withdrawal following the meeting of conditions for the second tranche.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 17
Translation
Montevideo, Hay 8, 1989
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable:
The Government of Uruguay has updated its medium-term development
program to take into account recent developments in the economic
envitonment that the country confronts. The updated program maintains the
basic objective of creating the conditions that will promote sustained
growth of exports of goods and services as the dynamic element of GDP
growth, and removing significant constraints to the achievement of this
objective. In particular, the program includes actions to: (i) improve
public sector management in general and services of public enterprises,
increase fiscal and tariff revenues, control expenditures, and reduce the
public sector deficit; (ii) strengthen the regulatory framework of the
Central Bank and the supervision of commercial banks; (iii) restructure
three banks, currently under the control of Banco Republica, with a view to
advancing their future reprivatization; and (iv) modernize the legal
framework ruling business and financial activities. The updated program is
elaborated in the attached statements on Development Policy and Financial
Restructuring.
Although we have made good progress in the last few years, the
Government will undertake additional structural changes, to strengthen our
ability to respond in an effective and timely maner to changes in the
external environment. As a result of these structural changes, it is
likely that Uruguay will have to bear some short-term social costs before
the expected medium-term results of the program on job creation, export
increases and GDP growth would be achieved. To minimize these costs and
meet its external assistance needs, the Government of Uruguay is requesting
a loan of US$140 million from the World Bank in support of its medium-term
program, including the financial sector component.
With the expression of my highest esteem, I remain sincerely,
18/ Ariel Davrieux
Director
Planning and Budget Office



ANNEX III
- 58 -                       Page 2 of 17
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. 1989-90 Development Program
A. Overall Policy
1.       Uruguay has recovered from the deep economic crisis it once faced
and has returned to the path of economic growth, with highly satisfactory
rates during 1986-87. The main reason for this growth has been the
recovery of exports under the Government's medium-term program for 1986-89,
which made it possible to revitalize the private sector.
2.       The Government will pursue its efforts to improve the framework of
economic policies and incentives in the 1989-90 development program. This
will help to establish the foundations for and ease the transition toward
the actions of the new administration to be inaugurated in March 1990. The
1989-90 program is an extension of the 1986-89 program and, accordingly,
retains its major guidelines, namely:
(a) a framework of policies and incentives intended to
increase exports, i.e., an exchange rate favoring
export competitiveness, rationalization of tariff
protection, access to inputs at world market
prices, and a tax policy that does not hinder
export growth;
(b) measures to promote growth and diversification in
agriculture and export manufacturing and creation
of a suitable legal framework for development of
agriculture, manufacturing and commerce; and
(c) policies to slow the pace of inflation and
strengthen the balance of payments, particularly
through increased efforts to maintain fiscal and
monetary discipline, a gradual lengthening of
inflation adjustment periods, and maintenance of
policies to increase real wages in line with
productivity growth.
3.       The principal targets of the 1989-90 program are to increase
exports by 5 percent a year in real terms and raise total investment to
13 percent of GDP in 1990, with Government investment absorbing about one
fourth of this (3 percent of GDP); hold the public sector deficit (inclu-
ding the parafiscal deficit) at less than 3.5 percent of GDP; gradually
reduce the inflation rate (end of period) to 60 percent in 1989, and 50
percent in 1990; and achieve unemployment levels between 7 and 8 percent.
The 1989-90 program targets are shown in Table 1.



- 59 -                       ANNEX III
Page 3 of 17
Table 1: MEDIUM-TERN GOVERNMENT PROGRAM, MACROECONOMIC
TARGETS, 1989-90 (1986 PRICES)
ITEM                                                  Average
1987     1988      1989-90
Macroeconomic Aggregates                            Annual Growth Rate
GDP                                          5.9      0.5        3.8
GDP per capita                               5.4      -          3.3
Exports of Goods and Non-factor
Services
Volume                                  -9.5      3.7        3.6
Value (Current Dollars)                  3.4     14.2        5.9
Imports of Goods and Non-factor
Services:
Volume                                 10.1     -2.3        7.3
Value (current dollars)                19.0      2.8       12.4
Total Consumption                            8.0      1.1        2.9
Consumption Per Capita                       7.5     -1.5        2.4
Other Macro Variables                                Average Ratio or Z
Marginal Gross Domestic Savings Rate         0.20     0.25       0.21
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP                  10.4     13.7       13.6
Gross Fixed Investment/GDP                   8.5      9.5       12.3
Fixed Public Investment/GDP                  3.0      3.0        3.0
Fixed Private Investment/GDP                 5.5      6.5        9.3
Balance of Payments and Debt Service                 Average Ratio or X
Exports GNFS/GDP                            21.8    -22.1       22.8
Imports GNFS/GDP                            19.6     18.2       20.4
Current Account/GDP                         -1.8      0.4       -2.5
Public Debt Service/XGS                     24.4     22.1       24.8
Interest/XGS                                21.0     20.5       20.0
Employment and Prices                                   Average Z
Unemployment Rate (Montevideo)               9.2      9.1        8.0
Inflation Rate (annual)                     57.4     69.0       55.0
Public Sector                                           Average %
Global Deficit Including
Central Bank/GDP                          4.1      4.6        3.4
Global Deficit Non-Financial
Public Sector/GDP                         1.4      1.6        1.0
Global Deficit General
Government/GDP                            1.3      2.0        1.3
General Gvt. Current Revenues/GDP           21.5     22.4       22.3
General Gvt. Current Expenditures/GDP       20.8     21.4       21.2
General Gvt. Current Surplus/GDP             0.7       1.0       1.1



- 60 -                      ANNEX III
Page 4 of 17
4.       The aims of the 1989-90 program are to retain the general economic
framework established in the 1987-89 program to increase the openness of
the economy and strengthen thb play of market forces, as set forth in the
Statement of Development Policy of May 28, 1987, and to intensify the
reforms under way in certain areas and extend the structural change process
to new areas. The following paragraphs provide further details of the
program in areas elected as having the highest priority for this additional
effort.
Sectoral and Technological Development Policy
5.       Besides retaining the general policy framework and regional
development approach defined in the 1987-89 program, a special effort is
now added to reorient and strength the efforts of institutions supporting
productive sectors. In this regard, the 1989-91 programs presents four
facets:
(a) raising of the technical level and strengthening of
research and technological support activities, so
as to reduce the lag in this area;
(b) new regional development programs, to promote
specific activities in specified areas, such as
fruit and vegetable growing and forestation, while
continuing to pursue the dairy basin, rice basin
and citrus zone programs;
(c) strengthening of the technical, researcher and
scientist training system; and
(d) instrumentation of legal and institutional measures
to strengthen the new activities, such as the laws
on agricultural research, forestry development, and
irrigation.
6.       In the agricultural area, the program envisages three principal
objectives: (i) increased production and productivity in the livestock
subsector, to increase its competitive ability and land use; (ii) diversi-
fication of agricultural production, emphasizing nontraditional exports-
-particularly high-value crops--with a view to maximizing the use of the
country's cultivable land potential; and (iii) development of forestry in
areas now gi'en to extensive pasture.
7.       The effort to enhance the technical content of the livestock
subsector is concentrated on development of new technological packages
adapted to Uruguay's conditions; expansion of campaigns to control hoof-
and-mouth disease, ticks, and other cattle plagues; dairy subsector support
measures, including electrification and rural roads; strengthening of
research at experimental stations and of extension and new technology
dissemination services; and integration of livestock raising with soil
management in order to reduce erosion.



- 61 -                      ANNEX III
Page 5 of 17
8.       The diversification of agricultural production toward nontradi-
tional exports will be largely linked to well-defined areas having export
potential or specific problems (small producers in Canelones). Also
envisaged are the establishment of a promotion agency and the furnishing of
technical and financial support for development of new products, such as
fruits and vegetables.
9.       The Government believes that forests offer a significant opportu-
nity to increase agricultural production and exports. The responsibility
for developing forestry will lie basically with the private sector. In
this regard, the Government has begun actions to set up a framework of
policies, incentives and laws to support development of forestry activi-
ties, including a new forestry law, tax incentives, development of special-
ized highways and port facilities, and research and extension activities.
10.      There was little generation and dissemination of agricultural
technology in general in the past, contributing almost nothing to the
development of new exports, which have been largely the result of private
efforts. This situation is expected to change under the 1989-90 program;
financial support from the Inter-American Development Bank and official
technical cooperation are available to this end. Expansion of private
technological dissemination activities will also be promoted.
11.      Promotion of new investments and adoption of technology meeting
the requirements of external demand will continue to receive the tax
benefits granted under the 1987-89 program. Also a new free trade zones
legislation was approved in 1988, establishing rules for new State or
private free trade zones which exempt their users from all national taxes
and provide them with access to doDestic inputs (electricity, telecommuni-
cations, etc.) at international prices.
Public Administration
12.      The Government will pursue its program to rationalize the public
sector by means of strict expenditure controls and administrative improve-
ments, and by rationalizing employment and the size of the public sector.
Another goal is to increase current surpluses and thus to reduce the
overall deficit of the nonfinancial sector.
13.      Expenditure Policy.  The rationalization of public expenditures
and measures to reduce the deficit include the following actions:
(a) approval of budgets for 1989 and 1990 incorporating
a reduction of real expenditures, with the excep-
tion of interest payments, which are determined by
LIBOR;
(b) reduction of public employment through an employ-
ment freezing lasting until 1990 (vacancies to be
filled with excess personnel displaced by the
rationalization of other public entities), the
reduction of redundant employment, and optimization



ANNEX III
- 62 -                         Page 6 of 17
of labor utilization efficiency ratios in public
enterprises. These actions are being instrumented
in APE and ILPE since 1988; the rationalization
process is beginning in OSE and ANTEL; and it will
begin in ANP in 1990;
(c) periodic wage adjustments for inflation in public
and private entities will aim at reducing inflation
(wage increases at 90 percent of past CPI infla-
tion). Pensions to be adjusted with the average
wage index;
(d) investment for 1989 will remain at the 1988 level
and will be also maintained for 1990;
(e) implementation of the recommendations of cost-
accounting and organization studies for UTE, ANCAP,
ANTEL, ANP, AFE, and OSE; and
(f) introduction of performance contracts or multi-year
performance indicators to improve efficiency in
public enterprises.
14.      Administrative Reform.  In view of the turnover of highly
qualified staff, the Government will take actions to: (i) increase the
wage scales and other remunerations of the high level technical personnel
of the public administration so as to improve competitiveness with private
sector jobs; and (ii) changes in recruiting procedures for public enter-
prise technical personnel, including submitting to Parliament a draft law
amending enterprise charter provisions on contracting and promotion proce-
dures for technicians and professionals.
15.      Improvement of Tax Collection.  The Government intends to maintain
the growth of tax revenue as a percentage of GDP, with a view to reducing
the inflationary impact of the public sector deficit on the economy. The
following actions will be implemented in this areat
(a) continuation of administrative reforms in control
and audit procedures (single taxpayer account,
computerization and simplification of tax returns,
increase in penalties for evasion, etc.);
(b) crosschecking of returns for different taxes and
with the BPS; and
(c) rationalization of the tax system, including
studies as appropriate to prepare a reform program
for implementation in 1990.



ANNEX III
- 63 -                        Page 7 of 17
Quasi-fiscal Deficit
16.      The quasi-fiscal deficit continues to be a matter of concern to
the Government. The following actions would be instrumented in this
regard:                    I
(a) swap mechanisms for conversion of external debt
into domestic debt or new private investment; and
(b) maximum tecovery of bad loans, including important
writeoffs.
17.      An additional factor in the reduction of the quasi-fiscal deficit
of the Central bank will be the gradual reduction of external liabilities,
such as reducing the balance of stand-by credits with the TMF.
Social Security
18.      The Government intends to maintain the social security system
burden at levels consistent with the economy's capacity to finance it, so
as to ensure the future soundness of the BPS disability, retirees and
survivors (IVS) program and other retirement funds and to guarantee future
benefits. In addition, there will be a reduction in the BPS financial
burden arising from dependents' allowances, old-age pensions, unemployment
insurance, administrative costs, and health care deficits. Legislation
approved in 1987 under the program supported by SAL I represented a first
step in this direction; it restricted some benefits and created new sources
of revenue for about 0.2 percent of GDP.
19.      As regards the disability, retirees and survivors program,
administrative improvements (individual accounts for contributors, inspec-
tions, crosschecking of declarations) wi.l be stepped up; currently, this
administration has serious limitations. For lack of computer equipment,
records of contributions from active workers and employers, and payments to
pensioners and other beneficiaries are inadequate; crosschecking of
employers' information with other sources is impossible; inspections are
not organized on the basis of computerized checks; and there is no register
of agricultural producers to control their social security contributions.
In addition, legislation will be drafted to guarantee its soundness well
into the next century. This will include a reduction of the percentage
entitlement to wage replacement ratio relative to years of employment and
gradual retirement programs.
20.      As regards other BPS programs, they represent activities that the
Central Government implements through BPS in view of the existing physical
and administrative infrastructure. The Government will earmark fiscal
revenues to cover these expenditures, wh.ich will be paralleled with
increases in fiscal revenues. Also financing mechanisms will be designed
and instrumented to finance these benefits (user fees), and administrative
measures will be implemented to increase the efficiency of expenditure and
to check on active workers and pensioneers of all BPS programs.



- 64 -                         ANNEX III
Page 8 of 17
Programming of Public Sector Activities
21.      The 1989-90 program envisages further progress in the programming
of public sector activities.  This involves strengthening programming
mechanisms and enhancing the effectiveness of Government investment. The
first aspect entails strengthening programming mechanisms and functions for
preparing the 1990-95 five-year program in 1990.
22.      As regards the programming and effectiveness of public investment,
the Government envisages the followings
(a) preparation of the 1989-90 investment program;
(b) reinforcement of existing sectoral programming
units (Ministry of Transportation and Public Works,
OSE, OTE) and establishment of new units (health,
education, and ANTEL);
(c) strengthening of inve, tment programming; and
(d) strengthening of project execution control and
monitoring.
Review of the Legal Framework for Commercial and Productive Activities
23.      The Government will continue to implement the actions begun under
the 1987-89 program with a view to restoring normal conditions in the
credit market and strengthening the legal structure governing it. New
c4.vil judicial procedures have been approved, a landmark piece of legisla-
lion, and the following actions are envisaged:
(a) parliamentary approval of laws on corporations and
unincorporated companies, leasing and bankruptcy
procedures;
(b) additional financial support to the Judiciary to
enable it to modernize its procedures; and
(c) reform to the civil procedures code.
Financial Sector Reform
24.      The Government considers the strengthening of the financial system
as one of its most important objectives of economic policy in the next few
years. The Government intends to create a framework that will encourage
the commercial banks to improve their efficiency, strengthen their finan-
cial position, and review their credit procedures. In a competitive frame-
work, the market would force the liquidation of insolvent firms; in
banking, this will imply the liquidation of banks in distress. However,
the social costs, especially in a financial center, would be high for the
Uruguayan economy. For this reason, the Government has decided to
strengthen the regulatory framework of the Central Bank to reduce Bank



ANNEX III
Page 9 of 17
failures and, if any were to occur, to ensure that owners of banks rather
than depositors are penalized. The strengthened regulatory framework aims
at increasing transparency and financial discipline in the system,
improving efficiency and stimulating more selective and prudent lending
practices.
25.      The Government will implevient additional bank rehabilitation
measures intended to (i) revitalize the commercial banks rescued by Banco
Rep6blica because of their difficult financial situation; (ii) continue
reinforcing the regulatory framework governing commercial banks, as regards
both standards and compliance with Central Bank regulations, in conjunction
with stricter application of bank supervision procedures and a minimum
number of inspections of individual banks a year; (iii) improve the trans-
parency and quality of the information covering the financial situation of
commercial banks; (iv) improve the operating practices of the commercial
banks; and (v) reinforce Central Bank control over the commercial opera-
tions of Banco RepCblica. These measures will be implemented as soon as
possible, but banks will be given a two-year period to come into compliance
with the new standards. Results will be assessed periodically with
external technical assistance.
26.      Restructuring Banks.  As regards the reprivatization of the
commercial banks now under intervention by Banco Rep4blica, as a result of
the rescue operation due to their precarious financial position, the
Government intends to convert them into viable entities suitable for acqui-
sition by the private sector. To this end, the program calls fort
(a) removing the four banks from the control of Banco
Rep(iblica;
(b) managing by the National Development Corporation of
the three banks to be restructured during the
transition period to privatization;
(c) ascertaining the size of their portfolios to be
restructured and provisioned for, as well as
absorbing the losses with the help of external
resources;
(d) reducing the number of their employees and branches
and restructuring their management ranks and
accounting and economic analysis systems, using
highly-qualified personnel able to act independent-
ly and to assume full responsibility for their
actions; and
(e) strengthening their performing assets to cover
interest payments and exchange losses. Towards
this end, the funds received by the banks for
recapitalization and purchase of nonperforming
portfolios will be initially invested in Government
dollar-denominated bonds.



- 66 -                       ANNEX III
Page 10 of 17
27.      Banking Supervision and Regulatory Framework.  The Central Bank's
supervision procedures will continue to be strengthened; they include
standards for audit, accounting, classification of bad and doubtful loans,
writing off portfolio and capital assets, monitoring liquidity positions,
and deposit risk. The Central Bank will emphasize the need for all commer-
cial banks to comply strictly with existing and future standards, including
those pertaining to writeoffs of overdue portfolio assets, minimum bank
capital requirements, exposure ceilings, and reporting and internal audit.
It will also increase the number of banks supervisors, their training and
the logistical support given them. Internal audit and signature authoriza-
tion requirements for banks will be made more stringent in order to promote
stronger internal controls in commercial banks.
28.      Control of Banco Repdblica.  The following actions will be taken
concerning relations between the Central Bank and Banco Repdblica:
(a) standardizing regulations governing commercial,
private and public banks;
(b) curtailing special advantages benefiting Banco
Repdblica; and
.c) separating and determining the costs of the Govern-
ment banking and commercial banking functions of
Banco Rep6blica.
IT. The Government Investment Program
A. Investment in 1989-90
29.      The Government investment policy aims essentially at:
(a)  supporting production of and tradein goods and
services by providing essential inputs (electri-
city, fuels and water), expanding the transport
infrastructure (highways and ports), and improving
essential services (telecommunications); and
(b) meeting pressing social needs, especially in the
health area. The program takes into account the
investment capacity of the project execution
agencies and the projects' agreement with the
overall development objectives.
30.      The major project priorities are similar to those of the
previous program, viz.:
(a) Energy. Expansion of electricity transmission and
distribution lines in urban areas and in rural
areas linked to agriculture, in conjunction with an
adequate level of thermoelectric capacity to serve



ANNEX III
- 67 -                            Page 11 of 17
as a reserve in the event of hydroelectricity
generation reductions caused by potential droughts.
In addition, the output capacity of the oil
refinery will be modernized and made more flexible
so as to adapt it to current market conditions.
(b)  Portable water.  Expansion of drinking water
services in Montevideo and other cities and towns.
(c)  Transportation.  Rebuilding and modernization of
trutk highways and roads providing access to
production; road maintenance; rationalization of
railroad services; modernization of bridges; and
maintenance of commercial airports. The basic
objective of investment in transportation is to
facilitate passenger and freight traffic, particu-
larly on major international trade and tourism
routes.
(d)  Telecommunications.  Expansion of the digital tele-
phone network and service coverage, in order to
increase the efficiency of domestic and foreign
communications for commercial and financial
purposes; and
(e)  Health and Education.  Development of the hospital
infrastructure, including specialized centers to treat
the aged and of educational centers.
Tuble 2: IMT:Ys DUET PROIgM 197-U
(in US$ millions)
Initlel
ediu_-Tern Pr ra (467        Upd>ted Pr ram 12 88          Difterenc
;TWI4         pra88   1989 'i Totnl    l887  lS   1889   (1W67) - (U1013
P!W   Enterprie"    5    10    1o     26       1    2    8       11          -14
ANP                4     2      2      8       2    8    2       7            -1
PLUNA              C     -      -      6       1    1    1       8            -2
UTE               87    45    54    186       40   45   54    189              8
ANTEL             69   56    49    164        55   41   41    137            -27
ANCAP             12    15    27      65      10   1S   le      41           -14
OSE               12    12    12      8e      1s   14   12      42             6
Others             9     7      6     22      13    9   10      32            10
Subtotal 4    1i7   Im            Zi      III  IT-  TU       II           h
Central Government
MTUP              79    83    s0    242      104   98   96    298             se
Education         13    27    20      5S      20   20   22      62             7
Hbe1th            15    27    8O      72       6    7    a       20          -52
Rice/Milk Salta    10    15    40     65       -    8   1o       17          -48
Other.            so    22    21      78      26   80   se      92            19
Subtotal        Z7   IT     XI    gm7      M    III  T7m    Wu             --
Transfer*
Municipl Works    18    18    18      89       5    7   11      28           -16
Road Interconn.    7     7      8     22       8    a    8       19           -8
Subtotal 5    15    II              IT     TI   TI  1T        n 
TOTAL      811   86   82  1,020        29?   816    80   948           -77
Source: OFP and Investment agencie.



- 68 -                      ANNEX III
Page 12 of 17
S. InstitutLonal Aspects
31.      The Government wlll continue to pursue actions to
strengthen institutional aspects affecting public investment.
The following are envisagedt
(a) extension of the use of performance contracts to
most public enterprises. These contracts will
include general objectives of the Government and
the enterprise, operating results, the investment
program, a program to increase efficiency and
improve administration, financing and tariffs,
allocation of any surplus, scope of coverage, and
social measures;
(b) mechanisms to periodically reconcile accounts
receivable between public enterprises, and between
them and the Central Government and regional
governments, so as to avoid crosssubsidization and
crossfinancing;
(c) establishment of sectoral units for investment
programming and control in agencies that do not yet
have them, and strengthening of existing ones
(e.g., UTE). Particular emphasis will be given to
the search of streamlined mechanisms to coordinate
project execution at each public enterprise or
executing agency;
(d) strengthening of the organizational structure of
public enterprises, stressing management functions
and assignment of responsibility. Information
systems should make it possible to apply control by
results; these include cost accounting, operational
information, and .inancial and physical monitoring
of investments; and
(e) development of project and priority assessment
criteria for use in execution of significant
projects and ex-post appraisal of project merit.



ANN~EX III
-69-                         Page 13 of 17
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAYs STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING
1.        Following the consultations with Banco Central del Uruguay (BCU) and
the Banco de la Repukblica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), the Government is
undertaking the following bank restructuring plan relating to the Banco
Comercial, Banco la Caja Obrera, Banco de Italia and Banco Pan de Azucar,
whose stock is held on a majority basis by the BROU.
2.        This plan, involving necessarily interconnacted actions, is designed
to convert these institutions into viable commercial banks, in two stages:
(i) the first of these stages will comprise termination of their present
administration under BROU plus their restructuring and capitalization by the
National Development Corporation (CND), and (ii) the second will consist of
providing for majority holdings in these banks to be acquired by the private
sector on commercially viable terms.
3.        To accomplish these objectives, the following institutional measures
will be taken:
A.        By the BCU
(i) Relieve Banco la Caja Obrera of claims payable in an amount of
approximately US$20 million, subject to purchase of the majority of
this bank's stock by BROU.
(ii) Payment of interest to the private banks to be restructured on the
excess of the technical reserve in a total amount which is equivalent
to the rent of a net worth of US$26 million.
B.        By the BROUI
(i)  Grant a lien to the National Development Corporation of
US$16 million equivalent for capitalization of the banks to be
restructured.
(ii) Provide for absorption of the losses as of December 31, 1988 of up
to US$32 million, already done pursuant to BROU Resolution
of January 27, 1989.
C.        By the Government
(i) Executive Branch Decree authorizing issuance of bonds for the
capitalization of CND as regards the portion to be provided by the
Articles 14 and 17(b) of Law No. 15785 of December 4, 1985 as
ammended by Article No. 603 of Law No. 15,903 of November 10, 1987.



ANNEX III
- 70 -                             Page 14 of 17
(il) Conclude a loan agreement with the CND for the equivalent in new
pesos of uS$105 million for application of the funds generated by
the disbursements from the loan agreement to be concluded with the
World Bank (SAL II).
(iii) It will be specified that the exclusive purpose of this loan will be
for capitalization of the private banks to be restructured.
(iv) After one full fiscal year, and having analyzed the profit and loss
statements of all the banks in question, steps will be taken to
prevent that, as a consequence of the application of the World Bank
loan, the net worth of CND be affected , for which purpose the
Government will, as necessary. promptly arrange for the relevant
budgetary authorization in order to capitalize this loan as a new
contribution by the Central Government to the CND, making it subject
to the privatization conditions agreed upon.
D.        National Develonment Corporation
(1) Within the current legal framework for the CND, and after the
satisfactory explanations provided in the Permanent Comdission of
the Legislative Branch, the Government has considered it desirable
to effect the necessary capitalization of the banks in question by
means of a contract with the CND.  This contract will secure the
execution, through the CND, of the actions required for
restructuring of the banks and the sale of their stock to the
private sector.
(it) This intention has been notified to the CND which, under this plan,
will have to take the following steps:
(a) Board resolutions to subscribe to and pay for the shares of the
banks to be restructured that represent their capitalization; and
(b) conclusion of the loan contract with the Government concerning the
SAL proceeds for this purpose. This contract vill contain basically
the obligations of the CND for implementation of the capitalization
of the banks to be restructured, together vith their administration,
restructuring and subsequent privatization. In this connection the
CND, as mjority stockholder, will see to it that each bank hires
qualified senior staff for each of them, whose terms of reference
will include specific redimensioning and financial management plans.
Measures Necessary for Imolementation of the Precedina Plan
4.        By resolutlon of February 21, 1989, the Government decided to
entrust to the Office of Planning and Budget the coordination of the activity
performed by the BCU and the BROU together with the National Development
Corporation in all matters pertaining to the four banks in question.
S.        In this connection and taking into account the different majorities
obtained in the Board of the BROU for the purchase of the corresponding
shareholdings, It is necessary that the following steps be taken by each of
the competent organs of the banks in question:



ANNE III
- 71                         %7g-eT  -Z~f 17
A.        The boards of Banco Plan de Azucar and Banco de Italia will have to
resolve to cancel the current merger agreement between the two banks, calling
a special meeting of shareholders of each of them to approve this cancellation
and then forwarding to the Executive Branch the withdrawal of the request for
approval of the originally planned merger.
B.       Complete the merger process for absorption of the Banco la Caja
Obrera into the Banco Pan de Azuicar, which will then change its name to Banco
la Caia Obrera, all of which was already authorized by the
Executive Branch resolution of March 2, 1989, entry in the Public and General
Commercial Register, etc.
C.        Simultaneously, complete the liquidation process of the body
corporate Banco la Caja Obrera (entry in Register, etc.) also authorized by
said Executive Branch resolution.
D.        After publication in the Official Gazette of the Statutes of the new
Banco la Caja Obrera, it will be possible to call a special meeting of
shareholders that will appoint its board.
S.        With specific reference to the Banco de Italia, the same special
meeting of shareholders referred to in (A) above will proceed to approve its
capital increase. This capital increase will be offered in the first place to
the shareholders, but stating in the notice of convocation that a public
offering will also be made 30 days after publication of the first call. Tho
meeting will also authorize the purchase of the portion of the assets and
liabilities of the new Banco la Caja Obrera corresponding to the assets and
liabilities of the former Banco Pan de Azucar (before its absorption into the
lanceo la Caja Obrera; see previous paragraph), once the preceding
capitalixation and the absorption of the Banco la Caja Obrera have been
completed. In addition, the new Banco la Caja Obrera will arrange for the
sale of said assets and liabilities, then concluding the contract and having
itself entered in the relevant registers. Finally, the meeting will also
change the name of the Banco de Italia into the lanco Pan do Azucar.
F.        The Banco Comercial will retain its present structure and name,
appointing its new board and general manager, in accordance with the
restructuring plan.
G.        The capitalization of the Corporation set up will be effected with
the Banco CommurciaL and the new institutions Banco la Caja Obrera and Banco
Pan de Aszcar, institutionally restructured as set forth ab6ve. For this
purpose the corresponding meetings of each of these banks will be called to
authorize these capitalizations.
S.        The fundamental objective of the Restructuring Plan is to assure the
viability of the three banks with a view to their early reprivatization.
Three basic phases are envisaged to accomplish this goal: (i) capitalization
of the three banks; (ii) replacement of their administration and management
organs, with the selection and appointment of new Directors General who will
be responsible for the fina,tial, commercial and operating restructuring of
the banks, and also their day-to-day management until such time as they are
reprivatized or some other alternative solution is adopted, and
(iii) introduction of improvements in the banks' couM_rcial and financial



72 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX III
-V72 -                        Page l6of 17
strategy and modernization of their control procedures and management
practices that will convert them into institutions capable of competing in the
Uruguayan financial market.
The new Boards appointed by the respective General Meetings of
Shareholders will ensure compliance with the terms of reference contained in
the Restructuring Plan and will proceed to appoint the respective Directors
General for each bank on the basis of proposals submitted to them by the
National Development Corporation, which will not allow the Director General
also to be a member of the Board of the same bank. Accordingly, and with a
view to ensuring the proper implementation of the different facets of the
Restructuring Plan, the Corporation will appoint a General Coordinator who
will perform the functions specified in the following. The General
Coordinator will negotiate with the Directors General the management goals and
objectives to be pursued and will perform the general supervision of the
Restructuring Plan in all respects.
The Directors General appointed in each bank will proceed to draw up
their respective action plans within 120 days, including definition of the
institutional role and commercial and financial strategies, the annual
restructuring plans for surplus personnel and offices, and the presentation of
these in financial goals to be achieved.  They will also pay special attention
to analysis and selection of unproductive assets and those of dubious and zero
recoverability, which are to be transferred to the unit or units responsible
for collection.
Prior to the acceptance of the plans and financial goals proposed by
the Directors General appointed, these shall be made the subject of a report
by the BCU and communicated to lBRD for -its acceptance and cotments.
Once the action plans have been accepted and the financial goals and
objectives have been negotiated, the General Coordinator will submit them to
the Boards of the banks, which will spell them out in detail in the
obligations and commitments assumed by the Directors General, clearly and
unequivocally setting out the said goals, the timetables for their
accomplishment and the relationship between the relevant incentives and the
degree of implementation achieved.
The BCU and IBRD will be provided with prompt information on the
following matters: (i) definitive obligations agreed on with the new
Directors General; (ii) independent auditors' reports on the opening balances
with which the Directors start their activity, and on those of subsequent
fiscal years, and (iii) any studies and reports requested from external
consultants in accordance with the TAL II requirements. The objectives, scope
and criteria to be applied by the external auditors will first be jointly
agreed on and laid down by the BCU and IBRD.
I.        Asset Recovery.  In order to have an efficient mechanism for
recovering the banks' poor quality portfolios, the debtors concerned will
first be classified according to whether they are still in activity or not.
Once this classification has been made, the clients who are debtors
to more than one of the banks concerned will be grouped together in order to
centralize the steps to be taken in the largest creditor, under the



- 73 -ANNEX III
Page 17 of 17
supervision of the Coordinator General. The debtors who are no longer in
business will be turned over to one or more collection agencies, who will be
contracted for the purpose within 100 days of the delivery of the respective
Action Plan and who will receive by way of remuneration approximatelY 10% of
the amount collected, plus their costs; precise figures will be agreed in
advance with the General Coordinator. The Directors General will be required
to report in detail on the classifications made and concerning the steps to be
taken in respect of the debtors for whom they are responsible, including a
policy on releases, terms, etc., which will permit the greatest possible
degree of recovery of the loans in question.
J.        Privatization.  The end purpose of the restructuring operation is
the privatization of the three banks. The Government will set the main lines
of the privatization and the Coordinator will be responsible for selecting,
negotiating and proposing to the CND-and to the Government the parties who
meet the necessary requirements. The new Directors General of each bank will
participate in these processes and will also be responsible for preparing the
relevant documentation and brief analysis of the situation of each bank for
information for possible purchasers.
The Government will, if necessary, use investment banks,
international brokers or other intermediaries to identify purchasers and
advise in the sale negotiations, which are to be completed within the period
specified in the Action Plan agreed with the new Directors General of each
restructured bank. These intermediaries will evaluate the possible buyers on
the basis of their recognized banking dimension and their capacity to promote
competition, innovate in financial services and knowledge, more than on the
basis of the financial advantages of their bids.
The Government will keep the World Bank informed of the progress
achieved in the privatization plans and will prepare alternative plans for the
event that substantial difficulties arise in implementing them. These plans
will cover various alternatives, including absorption by other organizations
or even final liquidation if the restructured banks fail to achieve rational
and economic levels of financial and commercial viability.



Page I of 12
SAL U1
PolicyfsiJor loom              Objesiv                           SAL I                        Peter to lot Treacdo         Prior to 2Sd Teass_
1.  MERAL MACRdECOaC
NOUN F _M
A. Lbintlin Genral        Policies to lue rese and         Competitive real effective       Mastein implementation       Into I990.
Eco_mic Pelicy        promote  xports.                 exchang  rat..                   according to definition
Frameork Developed                                                                      agred under SAL 1.
under SAL I
Export incentives (tax          MaintOIn existing frameork  Into 1990.
reductions,  xemptions),        agred ander SAL I.
Reduction maximum lport        Maintain existing froramork  Into 1990.
tariff to 40X. El linate 10    agreed under SAL I.
tariff on lmported Inpute for
egriculturo.
MaIntain market conditions that Fre-market determination of   Maintain policy *greed           Into 1990.
stimulat sving.                  Interst rMte.                    uvndr SAL T.
Reduce public sector deflet,    Social security reform,          lbintain fram_ork *greed    Into 1990.
Increas  public savinos, and    periodic tariff priet            under SAL I and initiate
decre  d_   setic financing      Increases for public             nm actions described
requirements for public sector  *nterprises to reflect           below.
deficlt.                          nfl tion, Initiate
rstructuring of momey-losIng
publle enterpriose, tax
refor.



AlNEX IV
Page 2 of 12
SAL n
pollq/bJo, Ue                  abj.iv.                           SAL I                       Prier to lot Tremnch        Prior to led Traseb
tI. PIUC FINANW AM          To rod. ftical deficit,                                          Initlato action  to roch   Satisfactory
AMIIJ(ISTRATICN        incres crr"ent savigs and                                        torget  for second trmnch,  implementation of
laprowe offtleemy of public                                     as detale below              f IisCl targets:
sector.                                                                                       Increase nonfinncial
public sector saving
to 2.?S of GPIn 1989
and the overall public
sector surplus
(excluding inerest
payments on the
*xternal debt) to 1.6li
of CDP in 1989.
Contra I Covenmet
deficit to decline too
O.X of GOP In In9
and 0.6 in lf0.
Overal l finacisl
requiremen  of public
sector deficit to be
roduced.
A. To redco  pubiIc      To improe public sector                                          Is" implementtion           Maintain expendituroe
expendlitre. In reel fi"ac   by incresing the                                          instructing for strict       roduction targets into
term.                 toFIaNOCIel pulit sector                                        control of public             190.
saving.                                                         expenditure throug:



AWSEK IV
Ps" 8 of 12
SML 11
PolicyMsj.o  louo              Obj.eiv.                          SAL I                        Prior to Ist Truceb_         Prior to 2nd Ta_
(a) Slf-itnduced cutc In
Central Government
*xps_ditur.e which will
bo b leo th. 1989
authortied *axiPwo
lega lev1el. Central
Governmnt budgets for
IM     r ducing real
xpwnditure, except
lntorest paymnt.. The
target I a*n expen-
dituro reduction of
0.X of GDP through
cutt In the wage bill,
Inveetments end other
Item. detailed below.
(b) Wag bill odjUstmnsmt     Continue into 1990. O
for deresing                                          2
Inflation to be at 90S
or less of past CP!
Inerseeo   until 1990.
(c) Legislation dcreeing    Continue Into 1990.
Pployment freez  of
adalnistrative *nd
support personnel
covering all Government
agencies, public
enterprioe, and state
bonko until 1990.
(d) Pension adjustments      Continue pension
besed on change  of the  adjustmnt..
wage Ind x.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 12
SAL II
PelIcy/Major Ion"               0biestbwv                          SM. I                        Prieor  o lot Trec_            Prior to 2od Tramoe
(t) Approval of 1969         Approval of 1990
Centra I overnment        Central Government
lnvostatnt budget snd    invostent budget  (at
coiling. (UOS Cut).       1969 real levels).
(a) Initiate studios to          As)  gr ment on parameters  Agreoomnt on perform-
restructure the water            for manageent             ance indicstors for
ompay and begin                  improvement  in three    pow r company.  Ini-
imple_ nttion.                   pubiIc *nterpries         tiate monitoring for
(railways, tlecome-      port authority.
municetions) for
performane  nd
*irline, wonitoring.
(b) Complete studies to
restructure the railways
and agree on action plan
to begin impi _m  ttion.
(a) Reductlon of employment in (h) Continue reduction of
the railways from 9,000,         roilways workforce.
to 4,500 ever S oers.
(1) DLPE work force to be
reducod from 500 to
850.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 12
SAL U
PoPlet7jJor Isee               Objectiv                          SAL I                        Prior tO lot Trenhe          Prior to ad tram _
1. Increase public       Incr.ee  tax renu   by IS of  Tax retorm  covrting "sle,          (a) Inprove tax yiolds by
seacor rove nu.        DP by Io.                       expert, Import VAT bnd net           shortOnngo collection
orth taxes. Satiactory              logs on VAT (estimOted
funding for tax adinistratIon      yt-ld O.6  of GDP).
to buy *qulp.o-c and
otrongthsn o trols.
(b) Streamlining of tax      Satisfactory efforta
adlinistration:          to streamline tax
simplifying  nd          administration system
centralizing all         ond incrons
psymnta  of taxpayers   collection.
for VAT, corporat tax
bad et worth tax under
a singlo account tax
declaration,
auteoetising and
Improving supervision
and auditing to
inerese revenus
collection.  Inceao
the numer of large
taxpaye  subject to
the ne system.
Complet studies to
prepare furtber tax
reforrm and rewiew
with Bank.
Increse revenusw of public       Initial aignificant lncrese    (e) Continue increasing        Continue periodic
enterprise.                      in real terms of                    poriodically trittfs of  tariff incraose  in
prices/tariffs of public            publit enterprises in   stop with inflation.
enterprirn followed by              step with inflation.
periodic Increasen to m_intain
or improve publitc estrpriset
finanes.



ANNEX IV
Pogo 8 of 12
SAL II
Policpjp.or ISO"                Ojective                           SAL I                        Prior t  lot Tr_ambe          Prior to 2nd Trameh
C. Social Security.       Un.go the burden of Social        Reduction of Social Security    Inerse control of              Full implementation of
Sweurity bem_ Ite for old-ago    deticit through rforms of IVS  b_  ito and *d ini*trotIve  the systm.
retirement, eurvlvors  nd         cystem  tax Tnere    for        improvement proram,
diesblitty to  b  1el *ompatible   about 0.8X of OP, revision ef  particularly in UREFI
with the contry'- ability to    syatm of rural contributizo,   (individual accounts,
fin ne tem,                      and reduction of bene its.       inspetions, paymnt
Reduction of the def cit to 21  record. for tfrm, etc.).
of ODP by 1990 and balance by
yer 2000.
InitiUt acquisition of
computers and programs for
verification of
contributions by firms and
indvidals, ciassification                                   %D
of agricultural producersr
cress cbecking of
Information by fires and
sectors, and early warning
nspectica system folloe d
up by In sit" inspections.
Initiate prograw to           Full implementation of
tighten control of bentits  the systm.
for active beneficiaries,
Including construction
work ner benfits through
compuerization, cross
ch cking of benefitt.
Approval of decree
rgulatoing optional
complementry retiremnt
system



ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 12
SAL II
Polleyt/moor Ie                 ObjocAiw                           SAL I                        Prior to l t Trench.          Prior to 2ad Tramb
Initiate *meaures to
rational ezo further
benof ito of the IVS
system of BPS and
balance its finonoes
by 992.
Submit to Bank
satisfdctory action
plan for actions such
as rovisions of the
wage/replacment
ratio, gradual
ret i reent dfter
reaching mrandtory
retiremnt ages.
Preparation of dreft
legislation.
Regulorization of the financiol  Rgularisz  transfers by                                         Allocate revenue
burden of BPS from the fae ily   eormrking revenues to support                                   sources for the family
assistanc  progrm,                theso program.                                                 assistance, unmploy-
unmployment Insurane , deficit                                                                   sent insurance and
of helth program ae  old-age                                                                     old-*a   assistanc
aistano  (pensiome  a Is                                                                         progres  Os well as
veje5).                                                                                          the health insurance
schom.  Prparo
measures to establish
funding for the"
progres.



ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 12
SAL It
Poleiy/ftJor loom               ObJ.stlv                           SAL I                         Prior to lob Tranche          Prior to 2nd Trsn_be
D. Adeinistrativo         To improve *slory scalos of                                                                      Complete studios for
Reform.                professIonaln snd technicians,                                                                   new solary system, nd
and hiring practices of pubile                                                                   hiring practices and
*ntrpr as.                                                                                       take stps to
implement the Chang
in salary scales for
professionals and
technicians as well as
hiring practices of
public enterprise.
UK.  PUBLIC SECTOR           Improve public investment         Agreement on sixe and            Agreemnt on public            Agreemnt on public
PROGRAMMING            effectiveness                     composition of public            investment program for         investmnnt progrm for
Investment program for           199.                          1990 *nd preparation
1988-89,                                                       of five year develop-
ment progrm 1990-96.         0
Creetion of secOorel          Review adequacy of
planning unite for            existing unite and
Ministries of Health,         prepare proposals for
Education and ANTEL.          strengthening sectoral
plonning unite.
Continue impl_ma-
Program to stregthen             Improve procedures for        tation of program to
institutional framework for      programing, generation of   strengthen overall
reviewing investment and         projects, follow-up and       planning capabilities
progrsm  in planning and         control.                      of OPP.
Budgoet Offic.



NNEX IV
Page 9 of 12
SAL II
Policy/Major Isue             Objoetwle                         SAL I                      Prior to lt Troa eh&         Prior to 2Dd Tr e_h
I.  FINACIAL SECTOt
A. Regulatory           Strengtba ing of framework for
Fras_ork.            Contral B ak regulation to                                       ottroduoe rm  rut**         Continue ; plesso-
improve banking operations,                                    including sanctions and      tation as per
*nforcsmsat controls for    schodul*.
better control and
supervision of ceommrcial
banks with repwet to
eve luation oid
elasification of loan
portfolios, reerves for
losse, loan renowle,
evaluation of assets. Net
Worth polleies to *liminate
earnings frc  Internet                                 o
eacruale and exchange
differentoles on loans in
arrears. Loan policies to
estAbi Ih coiling. by fIrm
or eonemle group.
Improvemant of banks'       Continua
financial rporting with    iapl  a tetion.
uniform accounting
reporting rules in offect.
Exterea  auditors to follow
rutes.
Issu  of instructions       Continua ipple -
establishing me  minimun    tatton as per
capital adaqucy ratios,    schdules.
with provisions for initiol
applieation In 1990 with a
graduated schedule.



ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 12
Pr lcy/Mjor Iss,               Obj.ctlwe                         SAL I                        Pilor to lot Trench.         Prior to 2md Ir eab
B. Strengthen Contral                                       Issance of now accounting      Improve the Central Bank's  Implemnt oction plan
Bank Supervision,                                      manuals and corresponding        streturS and Staff for       to strongthen super-
Instructions with rspect to    svisitnon of the banks        vision and carry out
classification of               by:                          training program.
uncolloetblo as*sts,
provisioning for losse, etc.   (a) Increasing the numbers
SAL I early warning system  nd      of Inspectors;
liquidity checks.
(b) creroIng banking
inspection In situ;
and
(c) Improving technical
skills.
C. Banco Rep4blica.       RationalIzation of BROU                                           Segregpt  commercial
operatione,                                                      bonking operations of BROU                                 W
for nonbanking operations
while adopting BU
accounting principles.
Establiob Interest paymnts
by On  on deposits for
public enterprise and
Goverumnt secounte and
equal treatment on VAT
taxation for all loans to
priva  *sctor.



ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 12
SAL II
P.licy/joJor Isso ubjestlve                                      SAL I                        Prior to lot Trencho         Prior to 2nd Tr -ph
V.   FRAMENdRK OF
COMMERCIAL AND
ACTITIES
Pr.nentation of draft           Presentation of new          Make best effort to
A. Capital Market   *nd  Modernie Uruguayye laws and       l.gielstion to Parlia_mt on    logieletion to Portia mnt   get approval of
Lusiness Regulation.  regulations, an judicial         corporation, leasing,            on civil court procedures,   remaining legislation.
proe dures.                      investmnt, banking, and         corporations, and non-
bankruptcy proceduren.          corporations, and non-
corporate business, and
increasd budgetary
allocstion for the
Judiciary. Civil court                                   4-
procedures legislation nnd
budgetary allocation for
1989.
B. Export promotion.    Increseo Export.                  Presentation of draft            Approval of forestry
legislation for forestry and    development low and
dairy development  nd for       regulntions. Forestry fund
technology Improvmnt,           creatOd and funded.
Approval and regultion of
free-trade zonos.



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 12
SAL II
Policy/Major lssue                       bjective                              SAL I                 Disbursemsnts subject to conditios
for each Bank
VI. REHABILITATION OF BANKS
FOR PUTURE PRIVATIZATION */
A. Rehabilitation of Banks.  Rehabilitate insolvent banks in       Strongthening legol framework    Render final liquidation of one insolvent
order to reestablish sound          *nd Centrol Bank's                bank. Banco Italia.
financial syst".                    capabilities.
Put in place intorim institutional
arrangomnt with the National Development
Corporation for the transfer of ownership
and contr' of three insolvent banks from
Banco Rop6blica to the market. Initiate
action aiming at rehabiliting these three
banks through restructuring of thelr
balance shoots and managemnt policios
under a program to be submitted to tho
Bank in the future. Tho program to be
coordinated by CND is to cover            V
provisioning for bad loans and
disposition, accounting practices on
aecrual of interest, reduction of bank
offices and personnel. Implement program
of restructuring and preparation for *ale
to private buyers which would be monitored
under the SAL.
J Special component to be disbursed in line with progres In the restructuring of *seh bank.



- 86 -
~~~~~~~~ .
CC :ORACNM                            L.1w 5 785 passed on DOember 4. 1985
NACIONAL PARA
EL .0SABAOLLO               Artices 600 to 603 of Law r5 903passed on November 10, 1797
Law 15 928 ost*d on Oecember 22, 7997
CHAPrER 1
Nature and Organization
SECTrON 1: rho Cororacidn Nacional pao el Owrollo (National Dwevioonemrt
Corporation) is heby ceated as e legl Public Law no  overmntal person, to be
domiciled in Montideo and enbled to constitute agencels or brWntches upcountry or
abroad.
*tideo *           SECrION 2: Th Corporai6n Nwcional pw e  OeDrollo shall bo ruled by the
nIUr0o8o sn  647s0e    following bodies: Board of Oietors. General Serariat. Gerl Management and
GILC  SAN   UV.""    Geneal Shareholders Meeting.
SEC rION 3: The oard of Oirectors will consist of sgWvn member Fiv of them
Shell act as reresntatives of the govenment and sh1 be poointed by the Pr,dunt
of the Country in agreement With the Council of Minfistrs with the prior approvl Of
the Semate. which shall be granted based on tn prsonal qualiti and notorious
caability of the prposed Director at rWrds cconomic and finania matters and
through at leatt three fifths of the mMbers of the Senate: thell furhr be elected
in compliance with stem I of Section 9g of the Constitution of Urugy.
The remaining two members shaNl act SS reprseti of the private sharehoiders
an Shall be appointed by the f0W. tT  Executive Power ShaI goven the rocedure
leading to their election basd on the crition that ach share'oldwe shll be entitled
to cut aS many voUt  as t  number Of ~  it holdz
SECrION 4: Tho Chaima  of the Boad shall be appointed by the Executive
Poww amn the fiv membwho w rersent the Gowvnment
SUCTION J: Dirctors sl act a such for a tem of five jew  a fom the date of
V*ii     _ intment To the effect throf, the provisions of Sections 192 ot the Consti-
twiet taI be aplicbla
SUCTION 6: Te incompatibilities set forth in Section 200 of #he Constituttan
sel be 4picable to the rsentatiw  of the Governent
SECTION 7: Thee she be a Gwenl Secetariat and a Geral Managment.  e
holda  of such pos shall be appointed by the Board of Directors through two thirds
of the votes of its mbr and they shall hold ther office insofar as dty we not
momvd by the sema maority of votes of the Directom, 1()
SECtION O: rhe Gnl Secretry shill be a peson of notonous experience in
managerial posts either in public or pft yW activtiNO He sll be t sJuperior of all the
fJkUsete p.  13 for the IteipYtatios  eu ur4r A'tWe e01 of LwI& 90 powd on NVovnbor
10. 1987.



-87-
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?~ 2& 't 3
NACIONAL PARA
CL DUARIOLLO
the employyes and shell decide on alI mastrs relevant to dministration of the person.
iev and to the internal oranittion of the Corporacidn. No shall also execte and
impie'nent all rsolutions w4opted by the Bord of Dirwetors on such matenr
SECrION 9: rhe General Manaer shall be a person of notorious oxperience in
managerial posts oither in Public or Prinate activities Ho shall be resPonsible for tho
im em en ation and oxwcution of the poliies and reolutions adopted by the Bowrd of
of Dircwtos o-her than those specified in the previous sctwon and for the relations
w.th governmental bodies and private firms derived frm te above mentiond policies
and rsolutiofn
ItchCON Sn ^, *    SECrION IO: rhe Geral Shareholder Meeting shl be held at let once a yw.
ratgft4ao   07 64160
?g&.5 S uA.*o         When held by all the shareholdes of the Coproac,dn, it shl consider the balance
$~&"a  u.       shetr and remaining financial staments submitted by the  oard of Dircto  bing
'd-oZnYVItO. UZ4UA    eambled to approvw them or obsw thm, in whih latt  c   the Executie Puwr
shall be duly notified so that the pertinent l/ actio  maw be adopted Th7 MAehg
shall also fix the remunertion of the members of th Boad of Oiretos
When held only by private shareholde, it shall appoint the Direorts rresnting
such shareholdes and approve or disappove their performance, being enabled to
remoW them and to appoint thWr succesors in compliance with the provisions of itm
2 of Section 3 hereof, and of tht ruling to be aoroved by thw Executive Power.
CMAPTER 2
Functions
SECrION 11: The Corporacidn Ncional parm el Desarolo shall hav the following
functions
A) ro inentivete ente   uia dopment with the paicipation of the privatO
SNtOW.
8I To fose the aion of nw firms an   to strengtn those alrdy existing, and
to hav a full or pat  equity share in such firms
Ci To contribute in the execution of ora/ economic policie thmough the promo.
tion Of equity investment in priority entrepreneuril secto
Di To anelye and deteminate the f/ds for nw imnwnt, to preaconcmrst
invsmet pro oyc  and tpromote markering resarch for new product and
for th trade of cometic product
EJ To fosr rsrch, xchang and incorporat/on of technology.
F) To contribute to the expaonion of the securitie nket and to fawor    consti.
tution of sar  firs, coopertie compniw end ohr typ  of entrepr rial
coana&WeMnrV to promote capital injectiont in cain a    of th domestic
activitie who   scal production and private resurs are not sufficient



-88-                                       Page 3 of 8
C/ ro promote the P8iOfliiilDtionl of cntrepreuria   m t n  St#Oneures.
ro To promote tte n.tioMI SC,enItftc aned ntetoiogCal deveo0mnn ,n coofl'..
tion with the Unvefstty of tile Republic 80 Oth7erulOlie end orivate agences.
CORPOIACION             throgh a support to research ProtectS
MACtONAL PARA
EL OESA/IROLLO         SEcTION 72: rhe BorO of O,rectors s$hall be leally entitlfed to:
AJ)PrIPWt and aPPrO the geeal regulations Of the eWncy
gj Prpare and approve the rogulatiOns which Shali rule its emAPlOvy   On anv
m#trel not tcificallv provided for herein, employes shll be ruled by com.
mon law.
CJ Appoint itS WDIlOyM and remove them ,n compliance with ttfe PrJoMVsos of
tho regulations. In eithw ce an absolute majoritv of votes cat by the Uoaru
of Oiecotors shall be requirot Tho rgulatlon Sl atremot to have all employee
admitted und  a system of comnpatti  tests. 11)
0) Crete c.ompxnics by shrs. and to ornize  oopeative partnrships and other
Q'CON 12 *t           firm bmd on the co.manwgement critwrot
GAMPA% u."$a    .  El Issue and invst shar  of stock, dtebntur, bonds and any kind of stewities
i,gO,.gvlOgo.Qu*tJGu*both in the domestic and  feign marets. and to kep tem in custod or to
-mang them on behalf of third parti.
FJ Purehase, manap and kep under its portfolio any shares. debentures. sewuities,
credits and genal assets of private companie
Gl Grant guarantes wafrrants or any kind of bond to operations of firms having a
relation with te Corporacion including the isutance of securities by tthem.
:I M4ana  abroad and in the domestic market, credit lines and capital contr'bu.
tons for fims haing a rlation with the CorporacOn. paticulaly in inest'
m't rojects.
OQbtain lo  both in the domastic and '"in markets.
Ii Si1pply and grant technical istance and advice as well as financial ajssFance.
?,jd to ca   out or agr  to th carrying out of studies destind to the proposal
and manwt of investmnt proveoci.
*. PrZase. plege, mortgWag and demise any knd of prOpt
LJ Act a intewning part or proxy for private invstors in the scurities market
* ana to Carty out other transtrions
4f 1", generalters do allcivil and commercialacts and all internaladministration
aictons. subscribe agremnts and carry out the materil operions relevant to
Its general powers reading administrative mtters, In compliance with me funec
tions and activities pcificaiy set forth hern.
r.l-dsfer its powe  through an absolute maority of the votes of its members
'awd on  asonab  grounds, to the Gera Secrtartit or to tho Genoral
Management, depending on the nature of the powes conferred and to the scopo
of each of the above mentioned bodios rhT  pow   spAcifically set iuith in
ie*ms&a), b, dJ, e, gJ, * and kli moy not bo ransfrr  (/1
(rt See pO  13 (or t&e inter fetati 6WRa  War Aria fS1 of L   11903  o Nousbe
e} aon



- 89 -
C14APrER 3                  Page 4 Of, 3
n /   .                              ~~~~~~~~~CHAPTER .
CORPORACWK                                        Finncial System
NACtONAL PA11A
Ct. DIAtROLLO           SECrToN   73: .The   uthonn d  caitnl  of t   Corora 6n amounts to
NVS 10OW.oO0.OOO fren thousand millions Now Peo. Such amount shell be
annully adjusted on th first Janurv aech ysw  acwdir9 to the vgrtation suftred
ove the pwevious twelve months bv the genel Consume Pricv index.
Any capital increase bevond such index shatl be appowd by low (11
SECrION 14: The above mentioned capitat sheI coq nd to the Gonment
or ,y otthr govewnment bodies in a 60% sixty portJ end to private sheholders ,
404. (fortvy pcont).
SECTION 75: Te CaPital pcntap to be ae up by tho Govenment shell be
rep0esnted by non-trnsfeb/o sham to be held exduuively by the Governmnnt or
othe gpwernntal bodi   Such non lran0srab/e contion shdI not b applicable
&mopvernmental oenw or among the lsW and the Govnenm
n -g Ot4oo   ~'"*         SECTION 16: Th cagiat pwc,rp to e id ubyprivat^e0mrsns               be
tg69X AMOhDMA UVAOS
<Safx a, .UV .eeMP nted by nominal SNr  of stck sujet to the hp pviions in frw rgding
-vOuThYtol- ugUGUAW    srSiuties. tn compliace wit* ay modifcatin Mt fth hevin.
Tho Botrd of Diretor she/t st the conditions for tei isanne, the call for teWir
suscription to the intoeeted pt   and the teems and formities for the peyWup
trensactiona
This  vuthatn may derminate the existe   of shae  roresenting private
rapite/s with no right to cast their vote
Whe the cqitd eonEbuhtion t j by pbty e inueto  is equb*J*Ut to ow fifth of the cqstd
contevbgtblende by the Stat orotherstate entii   ote huho w   ll h  the Ch ht to delct
o5w ObD ter in thevent of tI 6 'atlOt b   em     to tw  fIft the wil hwee aght to eet
two Dhvtoua (2)
Aftr VipwooWts ofa c  etor, ithe a  isa In the fh.t tbo dupe below one tenth a
q t Iha at the elm  of the ast pueeh  Rucd yew. the Dwtor wl (ose he nvest.tt  c.
colow to lmw. iA the wcoad c   if the sd ratio daup. below nlefith, but Wes abo oam tenth
the    or who wil lo "i is utlotur &oasiq to l1w a the Oiretor umcoapoted in the lot
pIMl or, in the evt of the 4te of icempoetlon beirn equa the ofe who ha obtaind the sneat
nube of ts  n the ewea  eect.nL. ien ny     the too of inettrve bY my Diretor will
take pie w6xt to lkw if the mut of the eite contfbated by pwte wnton to the eWdd
ceonttew by the Ste or other state entitie s le thn onw t.uth. (2)
SECrTON 17 The equity to be contributed by the Govrnment shl be poeid up as
* a Fdibw&
A) Thugh  a NS WOaaOO  (Fie hundrd million New Peso  contribution by
Me Centre Administrion
i Thorugh the prowdt of an iwuanc  of Public Oebt Secuities to be authorized
in congi&ac with Section 8, it" 6 of the Con"Isuti
.JAkUAUY 'm    (U) As Awn J_ey 1. 19. the  thote cait WMil be NS *eSaSK40@
(2) SbatiOAn ede a prA.ttle 600 ofL.. IJ&Oi3 p_ed on Net.ber 10t 197.



-90-                       ~~~~~~AMNYEX V
- 90 -                            Page    f 8
Ci rhooug* t  net proceeds of the annual profits correSonding to the gowe.n.
^,   mial shares
COUpOACtN         0i  TAjou  a cOntribution of up to NS2.000.C0.000 trwo thousand mi/lion New
MaCIONAL PAS           p0Mj by t   aanco de is RepOblica Oriental del (ruguw  under the torms and
U& OmUIaOLLO           coneshons to gbee1d with the CorPordcidn with the Prior aooroval of the
Central Bank of Urugua.
Art.lt 603
The dmounts set tooth in bsetto' Ai ed D) wll bt rdbsted in Wte with the venetton
cuewuoted by the genuu cfen   pme mdez between De,ber 1. 18 mE the lot day of the
month pner to the date ca*n paymeit i mae (1)
SECrION 18: Othw governmental persons m   chOOse not to aitalize up to a
75 (sevnty five prc"nt) of their profit pvidWd they mwt inwst such amounts in
development Poects with no prejudice to th provi*ovw of Section 190 or the
Constitution.
SECrION 19: The cptal to be contibuted by privat sharsholdes shell be paid
nt"4COtE 12. ^    t    a Aws/.
Max GA SA44 UV.51     A) Through a contribution to be made by tw ffnncaio  inftemdi*tion entities
paticularle,y ths which tras  d their lfatis portfolio to th ContrWl Bank
of Urua. ThW rwilatin sall set foth te l*tint conditions aid fwrmd-
ties zolicebe to such contribution.
8) rhrough the proceeds of the issanca and investment of she by t*e Corpor-
cidn with thc public, under th conditions and formalitis to be set forth by
the Bad of Directrs
CJ Through the capitlizadon of any profit correspondinf to the show or jrivate
pert?. under t Wtr  and con dtions to be set forth in thc regulation.
SECMTON 20: Pria  fiawn    intermediation enties may kep among their
wtss bonds, dabi tur  or sounte to be issud by the Corporecidn, up to the
amounts to be se tfrth in thu prtnent ruation to be apomved by the Centra
Bank of Urugay.
Any bond or. searities issued by the CorporciOn may be used with a view to
attint the purpim set forth in item a) of Section 18 of Act No. 9.808. dated
Janwusy 2. 1 ,39 acording to the wording a*sned by Section I of Act No. 12.243,
dabed FebnuaY 20, 1964, by firms and entitin coverd by Sections I and 2of ODcone
Law NL 15. . datd Sewtember 17, 1982, as provided for by the pertinent reula.
tin to be prved by the Central Bonk of Uruguay.
SECrION 21: Any firm alokting ofits subject to te Industrial and Commecial
Inme Tax to the purha  of ounties And bonds issud by the Corporaceon, sll be
exeted from  th pymet of the abov mentioned tax ratably. to th op n tap of
shares allated to su  trsctions Such tx exemption my not excend, at anv
ft 7w. a Mt (fifty percnt) of tie tax. (2)
SECTION 22: No individwl orlel p#an shll own mor thai 10Utften prentof
the transfearble nominal hae of stock.
(1) SuMle0n c ded W NFerAtAde 0  of Lw 1.903paed  N ew.ber I0. 198,7
(2) See pw 13 bis for woMft of Laz 18928 Pm_off Dembe r22 1987. whireby to cuing.
taOt toY euathsd



- 91 -
A4  NN\EX V
9                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pane 6 of 8
COaPOCAON
NAc2OtEAL PA"
ZL DSARIOLLO
SECrION 23: Notwithstanding any exacptions provided lein, when subscibing
contrects with third partes. the Corporaci6n shall be governd by the Private Law.
SECTION 24: At its own  prosal and in comknce with te policy adopted by
its Boad of DOwcss. the CorporaWi6n shll meach an _remnt with dh Central
Bank of Uruguay and the Benco de /a Rept;blica Oriont del Uruguay, on the credits
that shall be trawnsfeed in its fvor.
SECTION 25: The financial Coroacdin is hereby mpoed to purcha  eith
partially or in full, fom private interediaion entit, redits from their dstwr
"f st o P.'                                   CHAPrER IV
A ',. U..                      Adn4iistrativ, Financial and Jursdctional Control
wOuYve@S@ .i'R&BOIM
SECTION 26: The Executive Powr and the Senate of the county shall be respn.
siblh for the administrativ control of the Corpoaidn. at provided for in Sections 197,
198 of the Constitution.
The provisions of Section 198 of th Caonstitution, item 3. shall not be ap8ikOble,
and ttw mmbs of the Board epresenting onvate shareholders may not be removed
from thir pOsts. With no detriment to the abow, in cas of offense, fte Judicial
suthorities shall be notifies to th effects -teof, and, if found guilty, me membr
of the Boar will be automatically remod.
SECrION 27: With no dttrimentto the provisions of the prding section, re
transctios of th  Corponacn implsying financial intrmediation, shall be under
she control of Cvnte Bank of Unuuay.
SECrION 28: rhe Corporacido shall be subject to any intemal or extemal udits
as deemd ncsawy for the control of its efficiency, offeveness and economies,
SECT1ON 29: Tho Coporcidn shall annualy publish a belance shet pviously
epproW  by dr   Office of th Offce  of the Controller of the Cumrey with no dwtri.
mnwt to the periodica submission of any other statemnts teflecting in a cwa mannor,
its finneia activitis (Artice 191 of the Constitution. Tho petnet reuation shal
pt th tm and period of such satnts.
SECrION 3& Any oppositon to the reolutions of the  oad of Diretr of the
Corporadn shall be sumist  by mea  of a rposition appe, which must be sub.
mitted within ten working dys a from t  dey following dw notifiation of th re.
solution to the inteed party.
Once such appeal is filed, the Boad of Diecton must, within thhW working days
a from such acs, disc  and reol  on the suject matr, end its failur to odpt a
reolution within such tem shafl be deaed to bee m&ud to dhe ruet
Should such repositon appeal be dW , dwe intere p     me file, only on
lWgity rounds, a dmnd for the annulmnt of th decsion, with the Court of Ap.



- 92 -
ANEX V
Page 7lof 8
coaPopRAcoN
NACONAL PARA
EL OSABROLLO
oea/s in Civil Matte  action on the date on which the reolution was approveo The
filling of such demand must be madr within a term of  enty working days as from -he
notification of the express denial or, otherwise, s from the date on which the fictitious
denial is assutmd to hsav occured ote demand for the annulment of the resolution
may only be Ni/ed bv the holAr of e pronal or direct inturest or right, damaed or in.
iued by the act whose annulment is sought
The decision of the Court may not be aoppeleod
SECrION 31: The provision set farth in the preding section shd  not be a.
pliabl to anv  solutions adopted redig dte eaCUtin Of AgmMwtt Any respon.
meNCOPN ,2.     sbiliti  derivig thrfrom shall be #overned by common law.
VrsIIONOS  55: S 'I"
**rp"a" uv.053      SECTION 32: In cme a rsolution is doptod by th  Gfeel eretariat or the
'I4ONVzRVOgO.UNUGUV    GOMra Manament. joindy and sevey to t    pOsition aPPel decribed above,
a hierarchic apopa may be submited to the ord of Wirctor
Such eposition appel shll be filed and settled within the erms set forth in
Section 30. Thi te, shaI also apply, when  leant, to h rsolutin of the hierar..
chic appel and to any furtheriurisdictional control.
Autide 33. L* at e k0owwn, etc.
tAw IAMS of No"wmb 10, 1987
.ArtileI 601
It is audtetood thst the epweid itotaiu a  qv by Oe poui.soro of Articfe - ,d subse.
twin C) .W N) ofAutiae 12 of LAw 15.7 8 p_e on Deember 4w 1985. wil dALwa i of e:eet
membe. Oi twe of the nberotfood menmbe
'Al dwa. dd        ed aII conturets enteuvd hto by the memben of the owrd of the vatioial
COMOutMn lbP DhrOpn wUtr on behdf of the State. a dwl a di thoe to be adopted and
into by them  loraw t the lw i s foin t.  hemby decl, diy ui L
EJAW?dARY IUS~~~~~~~~.



- 93 -
A='EX V
aPa;e 8 of 8
C IPo3ACION
MAC )MAL PARA
UL  :SAXROUO
EawIL5.928             $
pied on
Deemb  22,1987
The Natioal Cospoution bi Dwlopmemt is exeptd tfom tu lcome Tas
whicb ago" to Indwug d   _comefte
The Senate NW tht Huse of Rte' tetiuuOtf Rt p.bi  of JU,wj. udtiqr in a Gennd
cox0" *uA P.        b                                 DUCRU:
Tal6ap  Zs " 0r v 1"
NR&kd UV.USI
#AQN?I )o.-UUGUAV           Aoiter 1. Add the fOlwiV   etlon tv ,A ie 2: of1Ue 4 ln  theOdeud rehtx d l9a?
'The Metiond CorneaWim for Development Ths inptien me be in home  tl Decmber
31. 198r
Articlk 2. Add the fOR.wOb subutimno to Ate 20 ofTlItle< h4 ine VW*ed Tat dated 19s?:
*C) Twose deuVnn ipi heM le she. of the .Valien CoepoMhn for Deueopmnt"
A.ticle 3. SubstItute the 1b abv.beton gbrstabu  IJo 1) hAte 11 ofTtTle din the Oem
dered rext daed 1967:
`1)  Evg hied i on*r to obtda exntfpon of iwes tin tn this repet. bwo
de"  ton th)e hMleg Of ohs bebWO_ to the NtOne Cooutio  for Dhut  paset
Wil Mt b esviuUmid fre fls two".
AetI 4. S_betltudo toef sbetin for Iubswctn fEAt hi   Adele 8 o Ttle 14 in th
O0ierd rstat dated 1
'1n oeer to detemine the twubl i  t the Ntioutd orM&v**W Pubtle Debt seewft,
a  edl tae ucut_u bd by Osco Nlotwto del Unri, (Mor4w  aks of Uigr)
NW5BMW Cntui We Uwr (Cented Bauk of Ulwl,). Tremry Bob  d NW     ad 
swm ofthe Netiol  Couportn frop esent wil not be   opoatied iA it =t`'
Artlct & Te hotdlr of sham beloqqWt to the Natond Coapoa   for OeetbpAmAt Wm be
a,hed a ted mets for the e*uWlion of labilitie to be computed ui oider to deteue the
tin ' eu Artie  . A          A
U4 VAR*Y tW



- 94 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 9
TZs   OF uvnutNcE FOR NEW ExcuTm     oocRs
1.       In order to enhance the present situation of the banks, it is
urgent to proceed to the 6election of new management that will design,
instrument and monitor the financial and commercial restructuring. Any
delay on assuming this step will be detrimental to the success of the
restructuring operation. The profiles of the targeted persons arb included
as attachment 1. Their nomination will be executed by the General Coordi-
nator invested by CND to negotiate their contracts and the minimum
financial targets that they will be required to reach. The profiles of
potential candidates, prospective targets and contracts will be communi-
cated both to the Central Bank and the Bank before final agreement is
reached.
2.       The new executive officers (CEOs) vill be responsible for the day
to day operations of the banks under the guidance offered by the Boards
which should by no means interfere in their functions. In addition, each
CEO should perform, if necessary with the help of consultants, the follow-
ing taske:
(a) Review the quality of the assets, select those to
be written-off, submit them to the Coordinator, and
follow his instructions with respect to the
transfer of their administration;
(b) develop and implement the Action Plan;
=c)  evaluate senior staff ranks and specify their
responsibilities;
(d) organize and supervise the management team;
(e) define additional needs for technical assistance;
(f) prepare the documents for privatization; and
(g) assist the General Coordinator in the privatizatioa
negotiations and in determining the sale price.
BAD PORTFOLIO
3.       An urgent task to be performed by the new CEOs will be to proceed
to select the bad assets the administration of which will be removed from
the banks. To accomplish this, small task forces will be formed in each
bank to review the conclusions of the appraisal mission. At this scage,
close collaboration will be exercised with the Supervision Department of
the Central Bank that should be included in the task force operating in
each bark. It will be necessary to separate the collection of bad loans
from the banks that originated them. On one hand, to be sure that all ties
between bad borrowers and the affected banks are broken. On the other
hand, to allow the new management to concentrate on the process of
financial And commercial restructuring.



95 -              ~~~~ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 9
4.       The selection criteria of the assets whose administration is to be
transferred should be made explicit, taking into account the urgent need of
CEOs to devote their efforts te the operational restructuring of the banks.
In general all loss qualified borrowers should be transferred together with
operations in which more than 50 percent of provisions have been set aside.
Any loan related to former main shareholders or members of the Board should
also be disconnected from the banks. Operations with pledge or collateral
of dubious value or estimated lengthy process of recovery will be carved
from the balance sheet without regard on their probable realization value.
The package to be transferred will not be limited to bad credit risk opera-
tions.
5.       A review of other non-performing assets as equity participations,
non-operative land and real estate and investments unrelated to the banking
business will be identified, valued and disposed of.
6.       The Bank will be informed in due time of the stated criteria for
the selection of assets to be transferred, and the nominal and estimated
value to the different kinds of assets selected. For appraisal of their
recovery values, apart from market criteria, and the perceived capability
and will of repayment of the borrowers, the new rules on loan provisioning
enacted by the Central Bank in connection with this SAL II operation will
be applied, without taking into consideration any scheduled timetable to be
granted on the implementing of these new regulations.
7.       It is important to impress upon bad borrowers that the loan
recovery arrangements and procedures are no longer under the control of the
banks. For this reason, consolidating debts, guarantees and collaterals,
and allowing for increased leverage in legal recovery and executing process
will be essential. CND's Coordinator, who supervises the whole restruc-
turing process, will design the procedures and criteria to be applied in
the recovery of loans, collaterals and guarantees and determine incentives
for the participation of the collection agencies in charge.
8.       Each year, the performance of the agents will be audited and their
accounts presented to the Government and the Central Bank. The scope and
criteria of the external audit will be designed by the Central Bank. A
copy of the appointment letter of auditors, scope of the audit and criteria
to be applied as well as the annual report would be sent to the Bank for
information purposes.
STREAMLINING OF STAFF AND BRANCHES
9.       The three banks show low productivity in terms of assets, both in
relation to staff and branches. This is a consequence of excessive staff
and branches in relation to the present dimension of the balance sheets.
Thus, to support the reduction of the burden imposed over the operating
income, specific targets must be agreed with CEOs to reduce overmanning and
unprofitable branches. At the end of 1989, all unprofitable branches ought
to be foreclosed. For COM and BCO, estimated excess of staff will be
eliminated according to a timetable that should be submitted to the Central
Bank and the Bank for approval. Target ratio of Total Average Assets to
number of staff should be increased for those two banks from the present
range to the range of 300-200 in real terms.



- 96 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 9
ACTION PLNS TO U fPhFA     BY CEs
10.      Given the conclusions of the appraisal mission and the results of
the independent external Audits, which have been initiated starting with
the 1989 accounts, the first step to be addressed by each CEOs will be to
prepare an Action Plan that should be satisfactory to the Bank and will be
used for monitoring purposes.                                     0
1I.      The action plan for each bank should take into account the recom-
mendations of the consultants and the conclusions of the external audits to
provide the new management teams with guidelines to manage the institutions
over the next two years.
12.      The action plan should include the following main componentgs
(a) Institutional role in the future;
(b) strategic plan with goals and objectives5
Cc) financial instrumentation of the strategic plan;
Cd) Organizational structure to support the plan;
-e) Operational plan to achieve specific goals and
objectives;
13.      The tasks to be performed in connection with these components of
the action plan are hereunder suvmarizesi:
(a)  Definition of the institutional role for each
restructured bank in the Uruguayan financial
sector, assessing the actual role and evaluating
past performance (success and failures) in
fulfilling it. As a consequence, lt has to propose
the appropriate new role to be played and identify
promising new business areae.
(b) Once the institution's role has been defined the
strategic plan should establish the bank's goals
and specific objectives for market share, assets'
growth and resource mobilization. This will take
into account factors such as market segmentation,
product range, and services to be offered by
segments. Consideration should be made here to the
services and products currently provided, their
cost and profitability with a view towards
discounting unprofitable operations.
(c) To materialize the strategic plan, and based upon
the review of the conclusions of the appraisal
mission, the prospective financial structure of the
banks should be addressed. Estimations of the
initial balance sheet and profit and loss statement
will be prepared, identifying key performance
targets and variables to be controlled.



-97 -                        ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 9
(d) in this exercise, emphasis must be placed upon the
disposal of uneconomic assets, options for building
a low cost deposit base and changes to introduce in
the portfolio mix. Special consideration will be
given to the perceived needs of complementary loan
provisions to be allocated in excess of those
alteady estimated and alternatives for appropria-
ting the corresponding funds.
(e) External audits of the opening balance sheets
should be made in accordance with criteria and pro
forma reports to be agreed between the Central Bank
and IBRD. Copies of these reports are to be sent
to IBRD as soon as available.
(f)  The organizational structure has to be adapted to
fulfill the objectives of the strategic plan,
including a clear delineation of responsibilities
and their relationships between Board and Manage-
ment. At this stage, main functions by departments
must be defined and staff resources allocated. An
overall assessment of the staff profile should be
conducted, specifying skill levels, rank, age and
proposing major changes in human resource alloca-
tions and improvements in incentive systems. The
geographic branch network should be assessed and
redesigned based on the current margin potential of
each branch with a clear definition of organiza-
tion, functions and responsibilities between head
office and branch network.
(g) Based on the outlined organizational structure,
programs will be developed and implemented to
restructure the present branch network and staff to
the desired structure.  The program will specify
the targets for the closure of unprofitable
branches and the reduction, as determined in the
financial restructuring plans. At this point, a
clear formulation will be needed on the financial
means to implement this operation, the timing of
which should be accelerated in order to hasten the
improvement of the bank's profitability.
(h) The operational plan should enhance internal
procedures and systems to conduct banking activi-
ties in a prudent and safe way as well as in line
with the stated policies. it should also facili-
tate the accomplishment of control, monitoring, and
decisLon making. Several important elements should
be addressed at this stage:



-98-                        ANN-  VI
Page S of 9
(i)     Information SXstems.  A diagnosis
of the systems needs should be
carried in order to improve the
system, determine requirements
for processing transactions
efficiently, and management and
customer information requirements
outlined in a cost effective
manner. Inventory systems in
head office and branches should
be restructured. These tasks
will be closely coordinated
within the framework of the
accounting system.
(ii)    Internal Controls.  A review of
the internal audit and financial
control system will be conducted,
assessing the effectiveness of
internal controls and making
improvements for strengthening as
necessary.
(iii)   Planning and Budgeting.  After
review of the planning and
budgeting system, improvements
should be introduced to enable.
the banks to develop annual plans
with qualitative and quantitative
targets and expense budget.
Given the situation of the three
banks, i_mediate priority will be
devoted to budgeting and
controlling operating expenses
and to develop procedures to
manage in accordance with plans.
(lv)    Credit Risk Adminlstration.  A
complete review of the credit
policies and procedures will be
conducted including borrower
selection, credit analysis, loan
administration and related
controls, devoting particular
attention to the identification
and management of late and
problem borrowers. As a
consequence, actions to enhance
these functions should be given
priority to the debt collection
strategy.



-99 -                        AMEX VI
Page 6 of 9
(v)     An ongoing process for loan
classification should be
developed in accordance with
appkopriate risk criteria, fixing
the corresponding provisioning
rules. The criteria adopted
should also take into account the
regulations issued by the Central
Bank and information provided by
the Risk Center (Central de
Riesgos).
(vi)    Deposit Mobilizatiou.  The peso
deposit base of these banks need
to be urgently increased.
Actions to fac'.itate deposit
taking and the access of
depositors to the bank should be
addressed, improving branch
operations, marketing,
advertising, staff training,
product development and pricing.
(vii)   Financial Mana8ement.  Methods
for financial management,
financial planning and asset and
liability management will be
introduced, developing guidelines
for loan, deposit and service
pricing based on cost accounting.
The information needed to
implement those methods and
guidelines should be determined,
assessing the adequacy of the
accounting system to provide in
time accurate relevant data.
(viii) Systems and Technolo n. Taking
into account the existing
computer systems, a review of the
transactions processing will be
conducted, identifying opportuni-
ties for automation. The basic
needs for management information
and the desired level of customer
service should be taken into
account to develop an overall
management information system's
plan and identify appropriate
priorities.



-100-                        NEY
- lOo _              ~~ANNAXVI
Page 7 of 9
FUOc  MONOING OF Cs
14.      Definition of the set of performing ratios is to some extent
dependent upon the modifi6ations of the regialatory framework currently
outlined by the Central Sank and the lack of availability of domestic
peer's group comparison data. Nevertheless, this key element will be
subject to close supervision based upon the studies to be conducted by CEOs
on the financial contents of their strategic plans. Attachment 2 ircludes
some of the most common financial performance ratios used in connection
with the management of a financial institution and should be taken into
account when designing the performance contre e for the new managers.
15.      To accurately defined components of those financial ratios, the
Central Bank will provide the relevant regulations related to the system of
accounts to be used in connection with financial statement's information of
banks in Uruguay for the purpose of reaching agreement on the elements to
be included in the calculation of such financial ratios. To make possible
the process of cross-sectional comparison, the Central Bank will provide as
well some means of equivalent comparison with well managed and outperform-
ing entities or set of entities in the domestic market.
16.      Given the burden imposed on the profitability of the banks by the
bigh operating costs of these banks and the initial dependface of their net
interest margin and operating income on the returns provided by the Govern-
ment bonds issued for the recapitalization funds, performance contracts and
special monitoring ratios will be also based on ex-bond's returns calcula-
tions that will be excluded in order to clearly identify the pace of the
financisl recomposition achieved by CEOs' efforts.
17.      For that purpose during the first financial year after the
restructuring, expected income from Government bonds, potentially
representing in any of the three banks' projection available more than 37S
of their total gross operating income, should not account for more than a
given percentage level that will be specifically agreed with each CEO.
Target year reductions of this level of no less than four full percentage
points will be envisaged and negotiated in relation with CEOs' incentives.
18.      To reduce the burden of total operating expenses, included staff
salaries, over the operating income, a target level of 65 - 55 percent will
be specified and negotiated. This target establishes the expected rate of
reduction from the present levels, in accordance with the plans for branch
closure and staff reduction design by CEOs.



-101 -                      ARNPX VI
Page 8 of 9
Attachment 1 - Main Features of the Profiles of the ClOg
for the Three UruMuan Banks to be Restructured
1.       Outstanding banking experience is an important prerequisite.  A
banking career of no less than 15 years is necessary, preferably in
financial institutions with substantial international activity. This
professional background in financial institutions, preferably in the
banking business, should hay been developed through continuous promotion
and expertise in key areas, such as loan department, treasury function,
forex, planning and budgeting, with a clear predisposition towards market-
ing of financial services.
2.       Academic background is important.  A degree of Economics ot Law is
important, but not indispensable. An MBA in bank management or similar
will be preferable. Attention must be paid to assistance to seminars and
post-degree courses related with the financial services industry.
3.       Given the nature of some important business opportunities in
Uruguay, knowledge of international banking and trade finance activities is
desirable, together with a clear understanding of the economic and social
characteristics of the country. For this reason, it is important that the
CEOs professional careers include at least 10 years of accumulative
experience in Uruguay.
4.       CEOs must have clear concepts about the market opportunities
available, although some bias towards marketing of financial services is
stressed, because at the swne time that the financial restructuring takes
place, commercial and operatixnal restructuring must keep pace.
S.       The CEOs will build up their managerial teams and reallocate and
reduce staff. Therefore, they must be able to show great ability to handle
human and public relations, together with strong capabilities to raise
moral standards and establish the foundations of a new corporate culture.
They must be able to judge upon the professional capabilities of their
subordinates and delegate and monitor their activities.
6.       The CEOs' planning, coordinating and organizing abilities are
essential. Experience in these fields is basic so that tney design and
implement the business strategy, mission and objectives to be achieved, as
well as analyze the competitive 3trengths and weaknesses of their
institutions. The assessment of market opportunities, desired changes in
the portfolio mix and changes to be introduced in other controllable key
variables count, as well as some of their most desired qualities.



- 102 -
ANNEX VI
Pags 9 of 9
Attachment 2 - financial Perfozuance Objectives
1.       The following pekformance objectives correspond to the most
important areas of financial management in a financial institution. They
are derived primarily from balance sheet and income statement accounts,
though the loan portfolio information requires separate MIS essential to
effective loan administration. Managing a financial institution to meet
these objectives is intended to ensure maintenance of: capital adequacy, a
sufficient level of loan loss provisions, a sound loan portfolio,
liquidity, cost control, and earnings efficiency.
2.       These financial indicators could be used as guide in developing
the proposed post restructuring opening balance sheets and financial
projections for the restructured banks. They should also be an essential
element in the performance contracts of new managers.
Capital Adequacy
Capital/Assets
Capital/Risk Weighted Assets
Capital/Equity Investments
Funding and Liquiditg
Deposits/Total Liabilities
Call Money/Total Liabilities
n'rrowings from Central Bank/Total Liabilities
Cash and Short-Term Investments/Total Liabilities
Loan Portfolio ML&agement
Loans Affected by Arrears/Total Loans
Payments in Arrears/Payments Due
Loans with Payments in Arrears more than 180 days/Total Loans
Loan Loss Provision/Total Loans
Earnings Efficiency
Return on Assets (Net Income/Total Average Assets)
Return on Capital (Net Income/Average Capital)
Total Operating Expenses/Total Assets (includes personnel)
Personnel Expense/Total Average Assets
Loan Interest Income/Total Average Assets
Capitalizatlon Bond Interest Income/Total Average Assets
Net Interest Margin/Total Average Assets
Other Income/Total Average Assets



- 103 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
SAL I PROGRAM RESULTS
2arade Policy, Export Promtion, and Balance of Payments
1.       Uruguay remains critically dependent on exports as its p'rimary
source for growth. The exchange and trade system is essentially free of
restrictions in both current and capital transactions, and Uruguay pursues
a competitive exchange rate policy, which has been instrumental in
strengthening its balance of payments. SAL I supported measures in the
following areas: export competitiveness, tariff regime, export taxation,
and incentives and promotion mesasures. The Government coupled a competi-
tive real effective exchange rate with value-added tax exemptions (now at
21 percent) for exports; virtually eliminated export taxes with the excep-
tion of a 5 percent tax on raw wool; reduced the 1983 five-rate import
tariff schedule, ranging from 15 to 60 percent (including consular fees,
port charges and the 5 percentage points surcharge introduced In 1985 at
the request of the IMP) to a new five-rate schedule--ranging from 10 to
45 percent (including 4 percent consular fees and 1 percent port charges)
with no surcharge (Statistical Appendix, Table 4), exempted all
agricultural inputs from Import duties; and introduced special tax
incentives to neutralize duties for imported capital goods needed in the
production of exports.
2.       These policies have created a positive climate for export expan-
sion. Exports grew from US$854 million in 1985 to US$1,189 million in
1987, and the data for 1988 show a 15 percent increase over 1987, with
nontraditional exports growing by 11 percent. This rapid export growth
resulted in the above-noted robust recovery of the economy In 1986-87
which, together with lower tariff protection and special incentives to
exporters, fueled a strong investment demand; capital goods imports grew
over 30 percent a year. Total imports also increased rapidly (26 percent
a year) during 1986-87, reflecting the renewed dynamism of the economy,
particularly imports of consumer durables and intermediates.
Public Finances
3.       Progress in Public Finances.  SAL I placed heavy emphasis on
Government actions to improve public finances and bring public expenditures
into a closer balanre with revenues by reforming the old-age, survivors,
and disability program (IVS) of the Social Security Bank, improving cost-
effectiveness of public enterprises, and restructuring a few money-losing
enterprises (railways, water supply, airlines). These actions were design-
ed to increase public savings and provide a better balance in resource
allocation between the private and public sectors. As a result of the
actions taken, current savings of the nonfinancial public sector improved
from a deficit of 0.7 percent of GDP in 1984 to a surplus of 2 percent in
1987. As noted earlier, this enabled the Government to cut the overall
public sector deficit to 4.1 percent of GDP in 1987, less than half the
1984 deficit.



- 104 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
4.       The IVS program has been strengthened in a manner that should
ensure its financial self-sufficiency by the year 2000. Under the methodo-
logy agreed under SAL 1,1 the system could afford a 7 percent increase in
the wage replacement ratio with no subsidy by the year 2000. The social
security legislation appr6ved in 1987 introduced new earmarked taxes (one
percentage point increase in the value-added tax rate and a 20 percent
surcharge to the domestic consumption tax on new vehicles) and tightened
eligibility requirements for public officials. In the short 'un, the
above-noted tax increases are expected to reduce the IVS deficit (about
1.2 percent of GDP in 1987) by 0.2 percent of GDP. Earmarking of revenues
will help to avoid a repetition of the experience with the 1979 reform,
which reduced payroll taxes and opened the doors to unlimited financing out
of general tax revenues. Since the social security system was no longer
self-financing, expenditure discipline weakened. This led to a substantial
increase in the deficit of the Social Security Bank (BPS), thus requiring a
corresponding increase in fiscal transfers (from 1.4 percent of GDP in 1980
to 5.8 percent percent in 1982). The deficit of BPS accounted for
67 percent of the Central Government deficit in 1982 and was one important
factor behind the collapse of the macroeconomic policy in late 1982.
Administrative actions are also being implemented to reduce evasion.
s.       Three public enterprises (railways, water supply and airlines)
were singled out for restructuring under the government program supported
by the SAL. The railways were restructured in early 1988 to establish a
scpled-down, financially viable system. Operational improvements have been
significant in the first nine months of 1988. The measures taken weret
closing all passenger services, discontinuing unprofitable freight lines,
reorganizing the administration and reducing the work force by 18 percent.
Further reductions of the work force and services are programmed. The
water supply company has begun its restructuring in connection with a Bank-
assisted project, approved by the Board in March 1988. Legislation is in
Parliament to convert the airline (PLUNA) into a joint venture with a
reputable international airline; however, finding a partner is proving
difficult on account of the problems confronted by major carriers serving
the area and the question of landing rights in neighboring countries.
Given Its small size, PLUM is unlikely to survive without an association
with a major airline.
6.       Tariff measures have mobilized additional revenues for the public
sector to cover operating costs and finance the local counterparts of
investment expansions. Tariffs of public enterprises are raised every four
months to ensure their financial viability and their contributions to need-
ed expansion. Current savings at about 2 percent of GDP are adequate to
ensure the financing of the enterprises, local contributions to their
investments after covering interest payments on their debt. Alongside of
the restructuring operations, other more profitable enterprises are intro-
ducing cost-effectiveness measures.
11 Discussed in World Bank Report Uruguay: An Inquiry into Social
Security: Its Evolution, Current Problems and Prospects,' Report No.
7067-UR, June 1988.



-105-                               AINEX VII
Page 3 of 3
7.       Tax measures and a growing economy have increased the Central
Administration's tax burden from 13.8 percent ot GDP in 1984 to 15.7
percent in 1987. The most important change was the introduction of the tax
on actual net agricultural income (IRA) together with advance tax payments
with a regime similar to that of the income tax on industry and commerce
and the extension of the value-added tax (VAT) to the agricultural sector
under a special arrangement that facilitates cross-checking of IRA and VAT
payments.  Collection lags have been reduced significantly and
administrative improvements in the Tax Directorate (DGI) begun tnrough
computerization of tax declarations and audits.
Public Investment Programming
S.       The composition and level of the public investment program for
1987-89 was agreed with the Bank under SAL I. An important part of the
Goveranent's medium-term development program, its purpose is to provide
essent!al inputs and services for a revitalized private sector, while also
meeting .-essing social needs. The program has been updated for 1988-89 to
take into account the status of implementation in 1987.2 The updated
program does not differ significantly from the original program; the most
significant changes are increases in the investment shares of the Ministry
of Transport and Public Works and the education sector while the health
sector's share has been reduced because of implementation problems. The
program conforms to Office of Planning and Budget's (OPP) ceilings to keep
the overall public deficit in line with IMF targets.
2/ A review of the public investment program is contained in World Bank,
"Uruguay: Public Sector Investment Review,' Report No. 7030-UR, May
1988.



- 106 -
ANNEX ViII
Page 1 of 2
DWV PROVISIONING RULES
(a)  Nonperforming Loans.  Nonperforming status will now be determined on
the basis of stricter norms using objective criteria (nonpayment of
interest and/or principal within 30 days of the due date) and sub-
jective criteria based on a creditworthiness assessment and on
ina'squate financial information about the borrower or the operation:
(i)  Credits granted before June 30, 1989.  Provisioning is
made in accordance with the criteria indicated in the
following Table, which represents a significant tightening
of provisioning regulations. The previous regulations
allowed up to 10 years for full provisioning of bad loans.
!_tlY -  i e iltm isw lll  an, WI
Crodte                        1989   1990    1991   199  1998
Frm July 1, 199w0
Xi to A   . 19eO8 fW claseMieslc.
Pnt Dun purtl leo
Loen thn *Ial  onth.  Potentlal Risk  2  5  9  14  20-
s1i to teal, amntha  Oeubtful  S  12.5  22.5  83  50
0Or 12 mthe     Woheollectiblb  10  25  45    70  100
Parformima Pautfal lle-  ibe"l (etedaed)   0.5  0.5  0.75   0.75  1.0
(including grantee. and
ether cwtmae"ae.s)
og:  Central Rank of Urugua
/ BMW uclueively on ecmntlng crterla
Wf Rged an the ael   a....ntlng criteria a suplen ted by subjective criters
wlhih could doengrade the "ugl% of the loan (e.g. from potential riak
to doubtful)
(ii) Credit granted after June 30, 1989. Provisioning is
determined as follows:
Normal (Standard)                        1 percent
Overdue less than 6 months              20 percent
6 to 12 months                          50 percent
Over 12 months                         100 percent
(b)  Performing Loans.  Existing credits will not be considered as
performing unless payments are effectively made covering 100 percent
of interest due. Provisioning on performing loans will be required
as detailed in the Table above for those contracted before
June 30, 1989; for those contracted after June 30, 1989, provisioning
will be at 1 percent.



- 107 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Portfolio Evaluation by Banks.  Criteria for the assessment by
commercial banks and their external auditors of their portfolios will
be promulgated by the Central bank: they will include the objective
and subjective criteria noted above. The evaluation will be done at
least once a year beginning January 1, 1990. The application of the
criteria will be supervised by the Central Bank through inspections.
If discrepancies occur, the Central Bank's opinion will prevail.
External auditors vill be subject to stricter reporting requirements.
(d)   Accountin& of Interest and Exchange Gains.  For loans granted after
June 30, 1989, the revised regulations disallow treating accrued
interest or exchange gains on loans overdue six months as current
income. The allowance is permitted for those loans overdue le than
six months which is the interim period allowed for action to re-over
from the debtor. Accrued interest or exchange gains on doubtful or
uncollectible loans will not be considered as income. For loans
granted before June 30, 1989, the revised regulations require that
accrued interest or exchange gains be amortized in line with
Table 19.
(e)   Capital Adequacy.  A system of risk weights for assessing the
adequacy of capital will be introduced. This is in line with the
most advanced international guidelines. The assessment of the
implicit risks of the different assets, grouped and weighted, will
follow the general guidelines of the Basle Committee. The standard
ratio of capital to risk assets will be 5 percent of the assets
weighted risk by Dec. 31, 1989; 6 percent by Dec. 31, 1990; 7 percent
by Dec. 31, 1991; and 8 percent by Dec. 31, 1992. The ratios will be
based on the value of the assets less any provisions made.
(f)   Risk Ceilings.  A risk ceiling for loans to individuals or economic
groups of 25 percent of the net worth of each financial institution
will be established effective September 30, 1989. For those loans
that, as of September 30, 1989, exceed the newly established ceiling,
the creditor banks will be given until December 31, 1991, to reach
this level. A one-fifth reduction will be carried out each semester;
the initial one will take place no later than December 31, 1989.
(g)   Transfer of a Bank's Ownership.  The transfer of bank shares will
require approval of the Central Bank of Uruguay. This action is to
be undertaken in conformity with Uruguayan legislation.



M         IX
Paog 1 of 8
UIWY
FDWMNCL BECTOR CIWPIWt MATIM
ORECTVE N. 1 - IES1wD   Zs5oL  a4(
STEPS TO OE TAKO OEFORE RELEASE OF
SAL It ROOS FOR lHIS COWPOMENT
ACTIONS ALREADY TA                        NEXT STEPS                       AND RELATED TAL FUWS                     SUBSEQUENT STEPS
(a) Lo1js1ativA Aprevel.
approval by the pertinnt
Perliammtary Cmmittee to
carry out retructuring
program directed towrd
reprivatintion of the banks.
Government has sent the Sank
the letter of Developmnt
Policy which, among Other,
sents out tho principal
objective   nd governing
policies of the restructuring
program.
(b) Restoring Financial Viability.  (b) Bnco Rep blic   ROU) will        (b) Government will Increase C  I's    (b) (overnent nill lend CND *106.0
Govern_ent hns doecide  to vest     "ll the banksI asset and             capital by ta0. and iesue bonds        which will become an equity
leal reeponsibilities in the        liabilitiee to C), and also,        to aterialize this increase; CMD        contribution. 
National Deelopment                 lnd *10m. to 00: (1) lROU has        will subscribe the specif id
Corporation (CN)) for               already granted U820. to the         shares to the three banke In
sanitizing the benoks'port-         banks to reduc  thi r lisbil-        ordar to *xpend their capitol
folioe and oeereeing the            itiee to It. Next, Central           corresponlngly.
execution of their restructur-      Sak Vil rmowe It. claim  on
In *c their majority               Cioj Obreraes obligations
shareholder. Government has         effectitely providing 820.. for
quantified the quality of the       Its capitol. It also will
bank's solvency, capitol            lower the banks" resrve
adequacy and their needs to         requirements.
reduce staff and branches. On
this basis, overnment has
decided to liquidate one of
the four banks.
(c) Government and Sank have                                             -  CID Coordinator to be contracted   -  Government to define responsi-
agreod on plan for pursulng                                              perticulerly to assiet in the          bilities of tha banks' new CEOn in
recoverie  from the banks                                                collection proces.                     thair perforennco contracts for
doubtful and uncollectible                                                                                      dealing with thes  bad portfolios.
portfolio.



ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
STEPS TO bE TAKEN BEFORE RELEASE OF
SAL II FUNS FOR THIS COMPONENT
ACTIONS ALREAtY TAKEN                     NEXT STEPS                        AND RELATED TAL FUIDS                     SUBSEQU9ET STEPS
(d) Carrying out the Restructuring                                        (d) The thre  mm CEO w*ill be con-
Covern_mt hs dcided to                                                    tracted on agreed term  and
appoint new CEO's for the                                                 conditions.
three banks to plan, supervise
and carry out their restrue-
turing. Government has
presnted to IBRO a short list
of the prospective new CEOD                                                                                   -  Each CEO will present no ltter
and their credentiels.                                                                                            than 120 days after taking offiee,
a detailed restructuring and
-   Government end the Bank have                                                                                      reprivatization program for his
agreed on the criteria to be                                                                                      particular bank.
met (financial, organiza-
tional, managrial) in
defining restructuring plans
for the banks and tho strategy
for their reprivatization, and
that these would be embodied
in performance contracts
beten the CEOt and tho CND.
-   Covernment *nd the Bank have
agreed on the proposed compen-
sation scheme, including suit-
able ine ntiv", and funding
plan for employmnt of CEOt.
Government *nd tho Bank have                                          -   Nw bank beoard mebers would be
agred to replace the banks'                                               selected.
beard of dir ctors.
Government and the Bank have
agroed on the appointment of a                                                                                -  CND restructuring coordinator
CIO coordinator to over                                                                                           would be hired within 60 days
restructuring program.                                                                                           after the first two CEO. have
arrived on duty.
-   Governernt and the Bank have                                          -   TAL funds for the CNCt dvisors      -  Advisors to be hired within 120
agreed o  the employment of a                                             end experts would be available          days after new CEO arrives on
group of advisors to assist                                               for disbursement on approval of         duty.
the process  to be supple-                                                thelir terms of reference con-
sented by high level expert.                                              tracts and selection.



ANNEX IX
Poge 8 of 3
4JECTEVE NO. 2 - s      _UWG1IIDIS UAIKDIS gym
STEPS TO BE TAKEN SEFORE RELEASE OF
SAL It FUhlS FOR THIS COW ONEUT
ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                     NEXT STEPS                      AND RELATED TAL FINDS                      SUBSEQUENT STEPS
(a) Creating Longor-Terw Mechanism   (a) Government will agree with the  (o) TAL fund  of this coponent would  (a) Promptly after completing the
Government hat  agree  to carry       IBM  on terms of rference for        be avol lblo for d;sbursi_nt for       study, the Coverne_nt will furnish
out, by July 1ff1, a study on         the study,                           the study on  pproval of its           the B4nk an action pin, including
the possiblo cretion of a                                                  tornm  of reference, contract and      a timetable for pursuing the
permnent macwb  iss  to reorga-                                            selection of consultant for its         results.
niza troubles finencial insti-                                            execution.
tutions. Study would enecmpass
review of adeq"acy of existing
deposit insuranc provisions,
as *el i as coverage of the
foreign exchange risk in
doesotic lending.
(b) Sup; r"Ieon.1  ro    nt                                                                                                                                _
GIiir_t oViLAK%ert o0
Development Policy sets out Its
principal objectives for
tightening Central Bonk
Supervision and regulotion.
(c) R  oraiiiRulntiono                (c) As condition of loan
W iMInt on1iidh bak tave agreed       offectiveness, Covernment will
on the propoerd new Central           issue tho ne  regulations.
Bank prudential regulationo.
(d) Upgr d_g Central Bank             (d) Governmntt w Il agree with      td) TAL funds ould be  ovailable for
Suptision. Development                Bonk en term  of rfrence for        disbursement on approval of thb
PiIjcyLi ttr sets objectives,         progrom of upgrading  CU            trsw of rferonce, contract and
Government and Bank have agreed       Supervision Deprtment.               selection of contsultnts/
on progra.                                                                equlpmsnt for this compnent.
Ce) Rationalizing PROU.               (e) Government will present         (e) SAL second trnecha release
Du iopno t rotiHcy Letter             proposals for seprating              conditions inclu lmplemntation
deines new rw e rnertt policis        MROU's commerial banking for        of the oeporation of CROUs
re: MRU"s rolo vis-a-vie             non-bankling fnections and           functiens.  TNL funds availoble
private competitors and Its           eqaliing its status with            for diobuersomet on approval of
non-banking functions,                other boaks' conditions, along      terat of reference contracts and
with action plan for                consultat selection for computoor
Implementation. mm WI I            purchase and tralning program.
agree with Bank on terms of
rret ntce, for computerization
and taff training of IRW
activities.



