Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14777
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
JUNE 30, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFE            -   State Railway Company
ANTEL          -   State Telecommunications Company
BCU            -   Central Bank of Uruguay
BHU            -   State Mortgage Bank
BPS            -  Social Security Bank (previously DGSS)
BROU           -   State Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay
CND            -  National Development Corporation
IDB            -  Interamerican Development Bank
ILPE           -   State Fishing Company
IMF            -  International Monetary Fund
IVS            -  Old-age, Survivors and Disability Program of Social Security
MYRA           -  Multiyear Rescheduling Agreement
OPP            -   Planning and Budget Office
OSE            -   State Water Company
PLUNA          -   State National Airline Company
SAL            -   Structural Adjustment Loan
TAL            -   Technical Assistance Loan
UTE            -   State Power Company
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Uruguayan New Peso (NUr$)
US$1 = NUr$4.30
NUr$1.00 =US$.023
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Program Completion Report on Uruguay
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3081-UR)
Attached is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Uruguay Second Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL 1I-Loan 3081-UR, approved in FY89) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
SAL II sought to continue some of the reforms initiated by SAL I by: (a) strengthening public
sector finances and management, particularly the social security system, the tax effort, and public
enterprise reorganization; (b) tackling financial sector problems by improving the Central Bank's
regulatory and supervisory framework, rationalizing the largest public sector bank, and
restructuring/liquidating four distressed banks; and (c) modernizing the legal framework governing
business operations and capital markets.
SAL II achieved some successes in: improving tax administration and collections, virtually
eliminating the public sector deficit by 1993, reorganizing seven public sector enterprises, strengthening
the Central Bank's supervisory and regulatory role, rationalizing the largest bank, modernizing the legal
framework governing the private sector and in privatizing two banks. However, the social security
system remains a major drain on the public finances: the 1989 constitutional referendum increased
social security expenditures and dealt a major blow to the public expenditure rationalization process.
The structure and management of the public sector needs further rationalization, and the process of
rehabilitating the financial sector is by no means complete.
For these reasons this PCR review rates the SAL's outcome as marginally satisfactory and its
institutional development impact as modest. Sustainability of the credit's benefits is rated as uncertain.
While the sustainability of individual actions implemented under SAL II is foreseen, Uruguay's
vulnerability to exogenous shocks, the weight of the public sector, the poor record on social security
reforms, and the continuing ills of the banking system call into question the overall sustainability of the
program.
The PCR  is weak.  It does not present a complete account of conditionalities or their
implementation and outcomes, and its discussion of sustainability is too brief and general.
An audit is planned as part of a combined audit of four operations: SALs I and II and the
Technical Assistance Loans I and II (Loans 2843 of FY87 and 3082 of FY89).
Attachment                                                     Ii
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................  i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................  i
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK ....1.... 
A. Program  Identity  .....................................    1
B.  Background  ........................................    1
C.  Program  Objectives  ...................................    2
D. Identification, Preparation and Appraisal .......................    2
E.  Program  Issues  ......................................    4
F.  Program  Implementation   ................................    5
G. Sustainability  ........................................  6
H. Bank and Borrower Performance   ............................  6
I.  Loan Documentation and Auditing   ...........................  7
J.  Lessons Learned  ......................................  7
K. Status of the Technical Assistance Loan   ........................  7
PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......  8
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ........................                                             12
Table 3.1  Related Bank Loans  ..............................    12
Table 3.2  Related IDB Loans   ..............................    12
Table 3.3  SAL II Cumulative Estimated Disbursements  ...............    13
Table 3.4  Program  Estimated Costs and Financing  ..................    13
Table 3.5  Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds  .....................    13
Table 3.6  Macroeconomic Performance .........................                                   14
Table 3.7  Status of Covenants and Conditions .....................    15
Table 3.8  Use of Bank Resources  ............................    17
A. Staff Inputs ..................................                                     17
B. Key Missions .................................    17
Key Program  Data   .....................................    18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  _






- i -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL II) to the Republic of Uruguay for US$140 million. The loan was approved on
June 19, 1989, signed on July 19, 1989, and became effective on August 9, 1989. The final
disbursement took place on December 1, 1992, almost two years after the original closing
date of December 31, 1990. To facilitate implementation of SAL II, a Second Technical
Assistance Loan, TAL II (Loan 3982-UR), for US$ 6.5 million was approved
simultaneously. The Interamerican Development Bank cofinanced the SAL II with Loan
626/OC-UR, for US$150 million and a Technical Cooperation Loan (Loan 664/OC-UR), for
US$ 1.7 million.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Bank's Country Operations Division
(LA4CO) of Country Department IV in the Latin America and Caribbean Region. They are
based on the Report and Recommendation to the President on the First Structural Adjustment
Loan (Report No. P-5071-UR, dated May 16, 1989), internal Bank memoranda and
documents, and supplementary information provided by the Government of Uruguay. Part II
of the PCR was prepared by the Government.
The Bank takes the opportunity to express its appreciation to the Government of
Uruguay, for its close collaboration during the design and implementation of the SAL II, and
its support in the preparation of the PCR.






- ii -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II, Loan 3081-UR), of US$140
million, continued Bank support for the structural reform efforts of the Uruguayan
Government. It followed the First Structural Adjustment Loan ( SAL I, Loan 2836-UR) and
accompanying First Technical Assistance Loan (TAL I, Loan 2843-UR). The SAL II
focussed on creating the conditions needed for sustained growth by: (a) furthering structural
reforms in the areas of public sector management and finances, with particular emphasis on
social security, public enterprises restructuring, public investment programming, and
regulatory and supervisory functions entrusted to the Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU); and
(b) supporting the restructuring of three insolvent banks, with a view to their privatization.
These reforms were expected to maintain the growth momentum of the economy, reduce
unemployment, and strengthen the country's external creditworthiness.
Of the total $140 million loan, US$70 million were to be disbursed in two tranches of
US$35 million, each on the basis of satisfactory performance in carrying out structural
reforms under (a) above. The other additional US$70 million was to be disbursed for the
restructuring of the three banks under (b) above, following agreed plans and criteria.
Implementation Experience and Program Results
Program results were less than satisfactory. Not much success was attained in the all-
important area of implementing needed public sector reforms. In fact, Government outlays
grew by almost 5 percent of GDP, mostly as a result of a 1989 Constitutional referendum on
the social security system which increased retirement benefits. Efforts to improve social
security administration by reducing evasion have been curtailed by the strength of interest
groups that oppose computerization of procedures.
Reforms towards streamlining public sector employment were initially boosted
through a buy-out program that reduced employment by some 15,000 jobs. However, many
of these workers have been rehired and the net impact of this program on employment



- iii -
reduction did not exceed 5,000 jobs. Most public enterprises, however, improved their
performances under reorganization programs.
In the area of the intervened banks' restructuring and privatization results were
mixed. The Bank took a calculated risk in only requiring the formulation of restructuring
plans. One of the banks, Banco Comercial, was sold to a private group in 1990 prior to its
restructuring. However, compliance by the other two banks in developing adequate
restructuring plans was achieved only after considerable delays. Of these, Pan de Azucar
was subsequently sold to a private group in early 1994. The third, Caja Obrera remains to
this day in Government hands and despite significant capital injections by the Central Bank,
inadequate restructuring, particularly regarding overstaffing, has dampened private sector
interest.
The main accomplishments of SAL II are related to the area of legislation regulating
the country's business environment, and the furthering of financial sector reforms.
Legislation on forestry, leasing, investment banking, corporate and unincorporated
businesses, and civil court procedures was approved by Parliament. In addition, budgetary
allocations were increased to provide for the creation of additional judgeships and the
corresponding administrative support in response to procedures introduced by the new Civil
Code.
Financial Sector Reforms included the improvement of the banking system's
regulatory framework. Loan classification, provisioning, capital adequacy, related lending
and exposure ceilings, and new accounting rules started being enforced, and banks were
required to cover deficiencies in complying with higher capital adequacy standards under a
capitalization plan. The Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU) also enforced tighter controls on
the country's largest bank, the State Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay (BROU),
forcing compliance with reserve requirements and regular provisioning for loan losses. The
program entailed also a reduction of BROU's special benefits from non-banking operations,
providing a more level playing field for all commercial banks.
Sustainability
Sustainability in the implemented reform areas undertaken under the auspices of SAL II is
largely assured. The current Government policies are expected to continue and no significant
departure is foreseen when a new administration takes office in March 1995. However,
much of the most important agenda included in the program has yet to be implemented, and
the problems associated to the size and role of the State continue to hinder Uruguay's
potential to achieve sustained significant growth.



- iv -
Lessons Learned
The SAL II program provides some valuable lessons:
(a) cooperation of the multilateral banks can improve the country's reform
performance. The complementarity of the Bank and IDB reform programs in
Uruguay enhanced the results obtained in the financial sector beyond the initial
expectations of SAL II. This cooperation should be encouraged in new
operations;
(b) restructuring financial institutions in distress is fraught with perils and the Bank
should require more than action plans, as occurred under SAL II. The Bank
should require full implementation of the restructuring plans, and should use the
services of experienced international banking specialists in developing and
implementing these plans and identifying potential buyers; and
(c) the risks of implementing a reform program in the context of a fragile political
environment should be very well assessed to define realistic and attainable
objectives. The extent to which political resistance would undermine satisfactory
implementation of some of the most important SAL II policy actions and reforms
was clearly under-estimated during loan design and negotiations.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCIlJRAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY THE BANK
A. Program Identity
Project Name:  Second Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Number:  3081-UR
RVP Unit:      LA4CO
Country:       Uruguay
Sector:       Adjustment Lending
B. Background
1.    Uruguay's economy experienced a severe recession from 1981 to 1985. An IMF-
supported stabilization program, and then an economic recovery program supported by SAL
I, created the conditions for a strong economic recovery during 1986-87. During that period
real GDP grew at an annual rate of roughly 10 percent with large increases in investments
and exports. Unemployment dropped from 13.7 percent in the first quarter of 1985 to
9 percent in the last quarter of 1987; and inflation slowed down from 83 percent in 1985 to
57 percent in 1987. The Government also reached an agreement (MYRA) with foreign
commercial banks in 1986 to reschedule its external debt, which eased the balance of
payments pressure of servicing the debt.
2.    The Government continued its efforts to stabilize and maintain the growth momentum
of the economy and, as required by the MYRA, entered into an 18-month enhanced Article
IV surveillance arrangement with the IMF in July 1987. In this context, in late 1987, the
Government requested Bank support for a Second Structural Adjustment Loan to sustain and
extend their medium-term development program through the end of its mandate (1990) and
for a complementary technical assistance project. The first identification mission for the
SAL II took place in October 1987, the appraisal mission in October 1988, and Board
approval in June 1989.
3.    During the SAL II preparation, appraisal and Board approval, the country's economic
performance deteriorated. This deterioration began in 1988, as GDP growth was practically
nil, despite a 5.7 percent increase in real investment and a significant expansion of exports.



- 2 -
This poor performance was attributed to several factors: (a) a sharp drop in tourism receipts
due to economic difficulties in Argentina and Brazil; (b) prolonged labor strikes in the
manufacturing and fishing sectors; and (c) a severe drought, which lasted until 1990.
4.    At the same time, control of inflation was undermined by the public banks' (BROU
and BHU) expansionary credit policies, which were inconsistent with BCU's efforts to
stabilize the economy by controlling monetary expansion. Inflation accelerated from
57 percent in 1987 to 69 percent in 1988 and 89 percent in 1989. Changing relative prices
fueled by higher food prices on account of the drought; and higher electricity rates to cover
the higher costs of switching from hydropower to thermal generation with much higher oil
costs, also intensified short-term inflationary pressures.
5.    The economic environment was further complicated by the reaction of retirees to
proposed social security reforms that would reduce their benefits. Retirees gathered enough
support to call a national referendum on changing the inflation adjustment formula of the
legislation approved in October 1987 (under the SAL I program), and introduce a new
indexation system in the Constitution. In November 1989, an overwhelming majority of the
voters supported the pensioners proposal which raised social security outlays by more than
4 percentage points of GDP. This seriously undermined many of the objectives of the SAL
II, just 3 months after the loan had become effective.
C. Program Objectives
6.    The main objective of the SAL II was to sustain and extend the Government's reform
program (which had previously been supported under SAL I) through the end of its mandate
in 1990. The administration wanted to continue the implementation of SAL I-supported
activities, with particular emphasis on: (a) reducing the public sector deficit and the
Government's role in the economy; (b) tackling financial sector difficulties; and
(c) modernizing the legal framework regulating business operations and capital markets, and
improving the effectiveness and efficacy of the judicial system.
D. Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
7.    The Minister of Economy and Finance and the Director of the Planning Office raised
the possibility of a second SAL to a Bank mission in November 1987. Successive Bank
missions carried out preparatory work in early 1988, and the program was appraised in
October 1988. The major reform areas identified are discussed below.
8.    Public Sector Reforms. Efforts in this area attempted to both consolidate
achievements attained under SAL I and include new areas. There was a heavy emphasis on
social security reform, focusing on improving revenues through controls on contributions.
Requirements for establishment of workers' personal lifetime accounts through computerized
revenue collections were introduced, and plans developed to improve inspections for the



- 3 -
retirement, survivors and disability program (IVS). The need to further the legislative
reforms undertaken under SAL I through new legislation to be submitted to Parliament was
also required.
9.    Management improvements aimed at making the public sector more efficient
involved a substantial modernization of key central government services and infrastructure,
and abandonment of the implicit policy of using public employment as a welfare instrument.
The program included improving key services (e.g. tax administration, power,
telecommunications); continuing the upgrading of programming, budgeting and control of
public expenditures; reducing public employment and the total wage bill while improving
salary scales for high-level professionals and technicians; improving cost-effectiveness of
public enterprises; restructuring several public enterprises; and extending performance
contracts or other indicators systems to the railways (AFE), the airline (PLUNA), and the
power company (UTE). The program also sought to reduce the overall public sector deficit
by raising fiscal revenues through administrative improvements and periodic tariff increases
to enhance the financial performance of public enterprises.
10.   Financial sector reforms aimed at addressing the problems stemming from a
protracted banking crisis that continued to impact negatively on macroeconomic stability and
was a major constraint to revitalizing the economy. Previous steps to tackle the problem in
the 1985 refinancing law had not been fully successful because they did not improve the
debt/equity structure or the recovery prospects of non-viable companies which were
benefiting from a stretching out of maturities, grace periods, and capitalized interest
reductions. Furthermore, the failure of the legal system to enforce claims and protect
creditor rights had led to: (a) a retrenchment of private commercial banks from the market;
(b) many firms being considered unacceptable risks; and (c) higher interest rate margins
charged to borrowers in good standing to compensate for the lack of returns on uncollectible
portfolios. The SAL II program aimed at:
(a) the rehabilitation of three failed banks through an action program to curtail
further losses, and improve portfolios and capital adequacy. The rehabilitation
program was supported by a technical assistance loan (TAL II) to help finance
the costs of hiring new CEO's and competent personnel for the restructuring of
the banks;
(b) improving the regulatory framework weakened in the earlier 1980's and
judged still to be inadequate to provide discipline and stability to the banking
system, protect depositors, and encourage efficiency within the financial
institutions. The program included a tightening of banking standards, reporting
requirements and supervision, and bringing the level of regulation to
international standards (Basle agreement). Upgrading and enforcing loan
classification requirements, tightening provisioning and capital adequacy
standards, establishing exposure ceilings, establishing uniforn accounting rules



- 4 -
and regulations were expected to increase financial discipline and maintain
confidence in Montevideo's financial center;
(c) initiating reforms at BROU, by subjecting it to Central Bank controls under the
new regulations and requiring the adoption of new accounting systems; and
(d) improving the overall solvency of the financial system. Key areas included
banks' compliance with higher standards of capital adequacy and the
corresponding capitalization plans to meet the new guidelines. The program
contemplated actions and in-depth analysis for future policy decisions, and was
supported by a co-financing operation of IDB for US$150 million, requested by
the Uruguayan Government in May 1990 taking into consideration that the costs
of restructuring the intervened banks were higher than originally projected.'
E. Program Issues
11.   A key concern during preparation, appraisal and negotiations with the Government,
was the restructuring of the three intervened banks and their prospective privatization. A
consultant appraised the situation of each of the three banks, analyzing the loan portfolio and
expected losses, future prospects and recapitalization needs. The results were confronted
with previous audits and the overall recapitalization needs were estimated at about US$265
million in 1989. Delays in carrying out the restructuring would increase this estimate, as
emphasized by a Bank mission in December 1989.
12.   Alternative solutions were examined: liquidation, absorption by BROU, a fire sale of
the three banks, and restructuring. After lengthy discussions of the alternatives and of the
supporting analysis, a consensus was reached in favor of the restructuring. Another point of
internal debate was the timing of the privatization, with some favoring a quick sale of one of
the banks (Banco Pan de Azucar), which was considered to be the easier to privatize from
the standpoint of being leaner, more modern and efficient. However, it had the drawback of
having the worst portfolio and thus the highest recapitalization costs plus the smaller presence
in the market outside Montevideo. The Bank ultimately agreed not to require a timetable for
actual privatization, in the belief that this type of conditionality could put the Government at
a disadvantage in negotiating with potential buyers of the banks.
I/    The objectives of IDB's operation also included new actions in the areas of financial
regulatory legislation, monetary and banking regulation, compliance of all banks
with the new capital adequacy standards over a shorter time span, and the
restructuring of public banks.



F. Program Implementation
13.   Disbursement of all funds was expected to take place by December 31, 1990. Actual
disbursement took place with a two-year delay on account mostly because of the slow pace of
formulating adequate restructuring plans for the banks (Caja Obrera and Pan de Azucar).
The Bank made significant efforts to prevent this outcome as evidenced by the more than 70
staff-weeks (see Table 3.8) devoted to program supervision in FY90. The latter largely
focused in assisting the process of financial sector reforms and the restructure of the three
intervened banks. Ongoing support for bank privatization has been provided during
supervision of TAL II, which financed the services of international banking specialists after
the Loan was closed. The Loan was fully disbursed by December 31, 1992.
14.   Little success was achieved in the program's most critical areas. In the area of
public sector reform, the modest achievements attained through some improvements in the
administration of the social security system (which in any event fall short of those intended
by SAL II) pale in comparison with the impact of the Constitutional Referendum of 1989.
Social security expenditures have steadily climbed to about 16 percent of GDP in 1992,
compared with less than 11 percent in 1989. This has required central government assistance
equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP to cover the 1992 IVS deficit of BPS. The 1989
referendum has prevented the Government from reaching the intended target of a zero deficit
for the IVS program in the early 1990s (see Table 3.7). The overall public sector deficit,
has, nonetheless been kept under control through increases in other taxes.
15.   Despite the establishment of a voluntary retirement program for public sector
employees in 1990, the objective of attaining a leaner, more efficient public sector has also
not been achieved, although some success in this area has been attained by selected public
enterprises. UTE, ANTEL, and OSE have improved their performance under their
respective restructuring programs; AFE dropped most unprofitable operations, closing all
passenger services and some freight routes; PLUNA is being privatized; ILPES was
liquidated; and ANP has been revamped under the law for the privatization of port services.
16.   Financial Sector Reform. In October 1990, Banco Comercial was sold to a
consortium formed by Credit Suisse, Chemical Bank, Deutsche Bank and Banco General de
Negocios. The reprivatized institution is still one of the country's largest banks and operates
in a fully satisfactory manner. To assist in privatizing the other two banks, in March 1993,
the Bank agreed to finance through TAL II the services of international banking specialists
who were able to successfully help the Government in selling Pan de Azucar to Banco du
Nord, a consortium of six northern Italian banks, in March 1994. However, the other bank
continues in Government hands to date. It is beset by administrative inefficiencies stemming
largely from overstaffing, which in turn has eroded private sector interest in its acquisition.



- 6 -
17.   Success has been attained in strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework
of the banking system. Reforms have removed long-standing distortions in reserve
management by the public banks; and have tightened bank supervision, increasing the legal
powers of the Superintendency of Banks and of BCU itself. The regulatory framework now
follows the international standards of the Basle agreement with additional elements to control
off-shore operations and special situations. The accounting system is now based on direct
entries for all private banks. BROU and BHU have, nevertheless, been conspicuously slow
in adopting these systems.
18.   Controls over BROU have been tightened and its interest rates charged are now more
closely related to costs of funding. Special advantages of BROU vis-a-vis other commercial
banks have been curtailed: Central Government and BPS deposits are subject to a
100 percent reserve requirement, loan-loss provisions have been established in line with the
Superintendency of Bank's determination of potential losses, public enterprises and private
deposits are now subject to the same norms as those applying to private commercial banks,
and benefits from custom services and other non-banking services have been trimmed down.
19.   Success was also achieved in the area of modernizing the business-related legal
framework. Legislation on civil court procedures was approved introducing much simplified
oral procedures. In line with this, the number of judges was increased to help expedite
judicial decisions. In the area of legislation on capital markets and corporate law, SAL II
required the Government to made the best effort to get approval of the legislation that had
been sponsored under SAL I. Parliament approved all the laws with the exception of the
bankruptcy legislation.
G. Sustainability
20.   The sustainability of that part of the SAL II program which was actually implemented
is likely as current government policies will continue its support and no significant departures
are foreseen by the next administration that will take place in March 1995. However, some
of the most important items in the reform agenda have not been well implemented and
continue to hinder Uruguay's growth potential.
H. Bank and Borrower Performance
21.   The Bank's processing of the Loan was somewhat delayed by the lengthy discussions
about the approach to the rescuing of the three failed banks. This delay meant that the initial
restructuring steps had to take place during Uruguay's transition period between the outgoing
and the incoming administration. The two administrations consistently made efforts to
comply with the macro policy conditionality. Bank participation in loan design and
subsequently in supporting implementation was very active and the relationship between the
Government and the Bank was characterized by a high degree of cooperation and
constructive interaction.



- 7 -
I. Loan Documentation and Auditing
22.        The President's Report provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the
Government during program implementation. The information for the preparation of the
PCR was also readily available in back to office and project supervision memoranda.
Disbursements against imports were audited by the Tribunal de Cuentas with satisfactory
results, albeit after delays caused mainly by a misunderstanding about the extent of the audit.
J. Lessons Learned
23.   The most important lessons of SAL II are:
(a) cooperation of the multilateral banks can improve the country's reform
performance. The complementarity of the Bank and IDB reform programs in
Uruguay enhanced the results obtained in the financial sector beyond the initial
expectations of SAL II. This cooperation should be encouraged in new
operations;
(b) restructuring financial institutions in distress is fraught with perils and the Bank
should require more than action plans, as occurred under SAL II. The Bank
should require full implementation of the restructuring plans, and should use the
services of experienced international banking specialists in developing and
implementing these plans and identifying potential buyers; and
(c) the risks of implementing a reform program in the context of a fragile political
environment should be very well assessed to define realistic and attainable
objectives. The extent to which political resistance would undermine satisfactory
implementation of some of the most important SAL II policy actions and reforms
was clearly under-estimated during loan design and negotiations.
K. Status of the Technical Assistance Loan
24.   The focus of TAL II was heavily directed towards assisting the Government with the
financial sector reforms, including privatization of three intervened commercial banks.
However, many of the actions to support financial sector reforms were undertaken by a new
technical assistance project financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
Within this context, TAL II was refocused in close coordination with IDB to give impetus to
public sector reform, a key element for the sustainability of the country's considerable fiscal
efforts, and to strengthen OPP's planning capacity. This office has been strongly supported
by SAL I and TAL I, but some reversal of achievements have taken place in the early 1990s.



- 8 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Background
After achieving considerable progress in the stabilization efforts, strengthening the
balance of payments and reviewing activity during 1985-87, the economic situation since
deteriorated, particularly as regards price and output performance. Inflation picked up to an
annual rate of 60 percent in 1988 and more than 90 percent in 1989. The principal factors
underlying this trend were the relaxation of financial policies and the intensification of wage
indexation mechanism, although the impact of a severe drought on food prices and the cost of
electricity also played a part.
Economic turbulence coming from the neighboring as a result of the failure of their
stabilization efforts also contributed to that downward trend.
Since 1985, three local banks (Banco Comercial, Banco Caja Obrera and Banco Pan de
Azucar) and one branch of a foreign bank (Banco de Italia) experienced serious difficulties,
owing to losses from nonperforming loans representing more than 50 percent of their loan
portfolio. To avoid a potential run on deposits, those institutions were intervened, first, by
means of absorption by Banco de la Repuiblica (BROU), then, by the Corporaci6n Nacional de
Desarrollo (CND) with the final goal of their privatization. Prior actions as recapitalization,
streamlining the staff structures, revamping operating procedures and a reduction of operating
costs through the closure of unprofitable branches and a reduction in personnel were included
in the context of the SAL II. At that time, the solution of the banking system crisis was one
of the top government priorities. World Bank expertise and financing was aimed, in order to
implement a specific operation dealing with that problem.
The risk of delays in the project preparation, which meant higher potential costs in the
rescue programs and the misconception that troubled bank's recapitalization was a sufficient
condition for reprivatization prevailed. The reality showed later to be more complex,
specially when the rescue of failed banks is in between.



- 9 -
The ideal solution was adding up to the initial design of the SAL II, a complete
program of financial system revamping, including the rescue of the three failed banks in the
framework of a structural adjustment loan.
The rehabilitation of the troubled banks was going to be supported by an improvement
of prudential and accounting regulations and the strengthening of the Central's Bank
Supervisory capabilities (Superintendencia de Bancos). In this context, BROU will be
required to conform new banking and accounting standards, as any private bank.
Social Security continued eroding the public finances, and draft legislation introducing
reforms (in the framework of SAL X) was rejected by the Parliament. A subrogate program
was approved, but short on many of the needed goals. The reforms introduced were mild and
without any substantial effect in the short run. In late 1989, a national referendum introduced
modifications in the Constitution with regard to social security payment indexation. The
scarce results obtained in the reform recently approved in 1988 were dramatically reversed,
putting the social security system in an unsustainable path, deepening its imbalance overtime.
II.    Obiectives
The program was designed to accomplish:
a)    Deepening of the reforms obtained in the economic framework through SAL I
instrumentation, as the maintaining of the free market determination of interest
and exchange rates, freedom of capital flows, elimination of remaining price
controls and export taxes, and import duties reduction.
b)    Reduction of the public sector deficit, through cuts on real expenditures and
social security payments.
c)    Improving public investment programming and implementation.
d)    Strengthening prudential regulations and central bank supervision.
e)    Restructuring of commercial banks in distress with the purpose of their ultimate
reprivatization.
f)   Improving the legal framework regulating commercial corporate and productive
activities as well as modernizing judicial procedures.
III.   Project Implementation
The project implementation results were ambiguous. First, the initial conditions
prevailing during its preparation and approval changed dramatically during its lifespan. The



- 10 -
1989 Constitutional referendum on the social security system added nearly 5 percent of GDP
in the govermnent outlays.
In the other side, the Administration made big efforts in order to close the fiscal gap.
On this, the performance was superb. During the past four years the fiscal deficit decreased
steadily, reaching virtually equilibrium in 1993. Tax collections improved dramatically in
which the SAL II and TAL II Programs played a crucial role in updating the administrative
capabilities of the tax directorate (DGI), and the tax evasion controls. But, it is necessary to
recognize that the constitutional amendment on social security was a blow in the Process of
reducing public expenditures. This variable increase steadily, putting a high burden on the
private sector.
The remaining tool to achieve public outlay reductions is to reduce the size of the
central government, at least in one third (60.000 employees). This is out of the scope of the
present program. Further reductions on public sector real wages and public investment are
unthinkable.
Second, the financial component of the loan presents mixed results.
The strengthening of the supervisory capabilities of the Central Bank and the quality
and extent of the prudential regulations were fully in line with the targets set on the program.
This component also has to be evaluated in a frame time perspective. Actually, all the
banking system (including BROU and the Mortgage Bank) is under the supervision of the
Central Bank. Public banks have to accomplish the same rules of private ones (reserve
requirements, interest rate determination, etc). This was a cherished goal of many past
administrations. The starting point of this process was the SAL I program, reinforced by the
SAL II and culminated through a Financial Structural Reform Program with IDB. The merit
of the two first World Bank loans (SAL I and II) was to put on the table, in a practical way,
a program which paved the field for more ambitious reforms, many of them just achieved. In
this area, the targets were fully accomplished.
The program results on the rehabilitation of the troubled banks were not satisfactory.
Two main causes could be mentioned: i) the present administration in 1990 inherited a
problem which was surpassed by other more urgent facts. The fast deterioration of the fiscal
accounts and the risk of facing an hyperinfilation process sided all the economic team efforts
toward the stabilization program. Furthermore, there was the general idea that the
reprivatization of these banks could be made through directly with potential regional buyers.
The selling of the Banco Comercial in 1990 fueled that line of thinking.



- 11 -
Second, the reprivatization strategy was quite general in many of its targets, inter alia
the preparation of an "action plan" not well defined in its scope and the recapitalization of
each institution were the main activities included.
The back-lash of that strategy is that two banks remained in the public orbit. On the
positive side, the recapitalization contributed to avoid the risk of an increasing deterioration in
their balance sheets and some streamlining on their operational structure. Actually, both
institutions are stabilized and accomplishing all prudential regulations.
IV    Lessons
The main lessons are:
a)    Structural adjustment loans targets can not be achieved easily when initial
conditions changed dramatically. The constitutional amendment on social
security was a back-lash with unexpected consequences in further structural
reforms. This, has to be coupled with the fact of the change of Administration
nine months latter board approval.
b)    Rescue of failed banks is a self-contained program "per se".  It can not be
melted in a general strategy of deepening structural reforms pertaining to the
macroeconomic framework. Banks and financial sectors are very sensible
activities; therefore, they need special treatment and follow up operations. A
SAL program is not a suitable tool for pursuing rescue operations of failed
financial institutions.
c)    The troubled bank rescue component lacked specificness mainly in the
description of the adequate tools and means to achieve the reprivatization.
Perhaps lack of experience and over optimistic expectations over the feasibility
of the selling of the banks contributed to that result. The correct course there
had been to hire a very qualified tearn, paid by results, with the task to prepare,
implement the action plan, and then proceed to the reprivatization. If this
action failed after a period of time, the banks should be absorbed or liquidated.






- 12 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3081-UR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 3.1: URUGUAY - RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of     Principal       Status
Loan                       Purpose                     Approval  (US$ million)    (early-94)
2468-UR   Agricultural Sector Loan                         1984         60.0       Disbursed
2836-UR   SAL I (Structural adjustment)                    1987         80.0      Disbursed
2843-UR   TAL I (Technical Assistance)                     1987          1.0      Disbursed
3082-UR   TAL 11 (Technical Assistance)                    1989         6.5       Disbursing '
3323-UR   Support of External Debt and Service Reduction   1991         65.0      Disbursed
3517-UR   Public Enterprise Reform                         1992         11.0      Disbursing
I/     Only 3.87 million.
TABLE 3.2: URUGUAY - RELATED IDB LOANS
Year of      Principal         Status
Loan                  Purpose                Approval  (US$ million)
626/OC-UR    Financial Sector Adjustment           1991          150.0        Disbursed
664/OC-UR    Technical Cooperation                 1991            1.7        Disbursing



- 13 -
TABLE 3.3: URUGUAY: SAL II CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million by Fiscal Year)
FY90         FY91           FY92            FY93
Appraisal Estimate    35.0         105.0            ---            ---
Actual                35.0          19.8           35.0            50.2
As % of Loan          25.0          39.1           64.1           100.0
TABLE 3.4: URUGUAY: PROGRAM ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Interamerican
Item         Bank           Development Bank      Total
Loan 3081-UR       140.0                 --               140.0
Loan 3082-UR         6.5                 --                6.5
Loan 626/OC-UR       --                 150.0             150.0
Loan 664/OC-UR       --                   1.7               1.7
TOTAL            146.5                151.7             298.2
TABLE 3.5: URUGUAY: ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN
PROCEEDS: ORIGINAL AND ACTUAL
Loan       Original Allocation   Actual Allocation      Total
Imports   Rescue of  Imports   Rescue of      All
Financing    Banks   Financing    Banks   Components
3081-UR       70.0      70.0       70.0       70         140.0



- 14 -
TABLE 3.6: URUGUAY: MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM RESULTS
(In Percentages of GDP)
Item                      1985    1986    1987    1988    1989        1990     1991     1992
GDP Growth Rate                               1.0    12.3      9.4      0.0      1.2      0.9      2.9      7.4
Gross Fixed Investment                        8.4      8.7     10.3    10.8    10.6       9.9      12.0    13.1
General Government Current Revenues          20.6    20.7    20.5    22.0    22.5        25.6     28.4    28.7
Central Administration Deficit (-)           -2.8    -1.4    -1.3    -1.9    -3.2         0.0      0.4      0.9
Social Security Expenditures (IVS)i'          8.3      8.6     8.7      9.0      9.2     10.1      11.3     12.2
Social Security Deficit (-)                  -2.8    -2.4    -2.5    -2.9    -2.8    -0.2-'   -1.01-   -I.5'
(Of which IVS Deficit)                       (-1.7)   (-1.4)   (-1.8)   (-1.9)   (-1.7)    (-1.0)    (-1.2)   (-1.8)
Non-financial Public Sector Deficit (-)       -3.0    -1.2    -1.4    -1.9    -3.5       -0.5      1.3      1.9
Quasi-fiscal Deficit (Central Bank) (-)      -3.3    -3.7    -2.6    -3.0    -3.4        -3.6     -2.3    -2.1
Consolidated Public Sector Deficit (-)       -6.3    -4.9    -4.0    -4.9    -7.8-'    4.Q0       -1.53'   -0.1
Capital Expenditures Public Sector            3.1      3.8     3.3      4.0      3.9      4.1      4.3      4.0
Nonfinancial Public Sector Savings (+)        0.1      2.6     1.0      2.2      0.4      4.6      5.6      5.9
Current Account BOP Deficit (-)              -1.8      1.2    -1.9      0.4      1.7      2.6      1.3     -2.0
Exports (FOB, Million US$)                    854    1,088    1,182    1,405    1,599    1,693    1,605    1,703
Imports (CIF, Million US$)                    708     870    1,142    1,177    1,203    1,343    1,637    2,058
Trade Balance (Million US$)                   146     218       40      228     396       350      -32      -356
Prices (Consumer Index, End of Period)        83.0    70.7    57.3    69.0    89.2    129.0    81.5    58.9
1/     Excludes social security expenditures of the banking employees. professionals and notaries funds, which totalled 0.7 percent of GDP
in 1985 and 1.3 percent of GDP in 1992, i.e., total IVS expenditures were 9.0 percent of GDP in 1985 and 13.5 percent of GDP
in 1992.
2/     Includes intervened banks and mortgage bank losses.
3/      Beginning in 1990, the Government allocated several percentage priorities of the VAT to cover unfunded expenditures of BPS.



- 15 -
TABLE 3.7: URUGUAY - STATUS OF COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
Loan
Agreement                          Description                                 Status of Compliance
Section
3.01       (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time,   Complied with.
at the request of each party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the Restructuring, and the actions respectively
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in
paragraph 4 and 5 of Schedule I to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each exchange of views, the Borrower shall   Complied with.
finish to the Bank for its review and comments a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
3.02       (b)  The Borrower shall:                                Complied with. Tribunal de Cuentas
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in   designated as auditor.
paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 for each fiscal
year audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in    Complied with but much later than
any case no later than four months after the end   required by covenant. Reason:
of each such year, a certified copy of the report   differences of interpretation by the
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope  Tribunal de Cuentas with what the Bank
and in such detail as the Bank shall have     requested. Bank required audit of eligible
reasonably requested.Complied with but much    import invoices; Tribunal also required
later than required by covenant. Reason:      audit of fiscal Government expenditures
differences of interpretation by the Tribunal de    paid with counterpart local funds. The
Cuentas with what the Bank requested. Bank    situation was clarified in early 1991 with
required audit of eligible import invoices;   a Bank letter to the Tribunal.
Tribunal also required audit of fiscal
Government expenditures paid with counterpart
local funds. The situation was clarified in early
1991 with a Bank letter to the Tribunal.
Schedule I     The Bank shall be satisfied after an exchange of views as   Complied with. However, capital inflow
Section 3 (a)   described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on   measures have resulted in a departure
satisfactory evidence of:                              from the principle of an exchange rate
(i)  the progress achieved by the Borrower in the      favoring export competitiveness. The
carrying out of the Program, including maintaining  Government also have had difficulties in
and deepening the results of actions already taken  holding the line for wage increases.
and described in paragraphs 2 and 7 of the Program
(Letter of Development Policy) as well as taking
new actions, if required, other than those referred to
in
(ii) herein; and
(iii) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
agreement have been taken.



- 16 -
Loan
Agreement                          Description                                 Status of Compliance
Section
Schedule I
Section 4       The Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views,  Complied with in general.
as described in Section 3.01 of this agreement based on  Shortcomings in investment
satisfactory evidence of:                               programming, and reduction of social
(i)  the progress achieved by the Borrower in the       security deficit in the early 1990s.
carrying out of the Program, in general, and of the
Restructuring, in particular, including any pending
under the First Phase and any follow-up measure to
the First Phase that may be required at the time of
the exchange of views in question;
(ii) a Resolution has been issued by the Executive Branch
authorizing the increase of the paid up capital of
Corporaci6n Nacional de Desarrollo (CND); and
(iii) the Borrower has issued bonds with the purpose of
materializing the aforesaid capital increase.
Schedule I      Withdrawals of the loan proceeds for the restructuring of    Complied with.
Section 5 (a)   the three failed commercial banks shall be made only    Banco Comercial before the full
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank that:        restructuring because it was privatized.
(i) CND has subscribed the number of shares of each    Banco Caia Obrera with a mixed
bank stipulated in 5(b);                           situation. First CEO was dismissed over
(ii) the bank has entered into a contract, satisfactory to  differences with CND despite progress
the Borrower and the Bank, with a qualified person  in the restructuring. His replacement
who will discharge the functions of chief executive  resigned under a controversial situation.
officer (CEO);                                     Banco Pan de Azucar. Recapitalized in
(iii) persons with adequate qualifications and experience  1992. Slow progress but disbursement
have been selected to form a new Board of Directors   conditions were met.
of the bank; and
(iv) CND has entered into a contract satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank to hire a coordinator for the
restructuring program.
Schedule I      For purposes of 5 (a) (i) above, the shares of stock of  Complied with but with a significant
Section 5 (b)    each bank shall be equivalent to:                      delay for Banco Pan de Azucar
(i)  Banco Pan de Azucar US$73.2 million;               Complied with but with a significant
(ii) Banco Commercial  US$46.4 million; and             delay for Banco Pan de Azucar
(iii) Banco Caja Obrera US$37.4 million.



- 17 -
TABLE 3.8: URUGUAY- USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF NPUTS (STAFF WEEKS)
Stage of Program Cycle           Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                       77.5
Board Approval-Effectiveness            40.7
Supervision
139.1
TOTAL                                257.3
B. KEY MISSIONS
Activity         Fiscal Year   Number of        Specialization     Number of Weeks
Persons
Identification and         1988           3        EC0', COI', SS'              4.7
Preappraisal
Appraisal                  1989           14       2EC!', CO, HI/, 6C,          72.8
4S
Negotiation                1989           6        2EC, 4S                      17.6
Board Approval-            1989           2        EC, CO                       23.1
Effectiveness
Supervision                1989           5        EC, CO, 3S                   19.1
Supervision                1990           12       EC, CO, 10S                  71.3
Supervision                1991           4        EC, 2C, S                    18.7
Supervision                1992           7        CO, 2EC, 4S                  15.5
Supervision                1993           9        2CO, EC, 6S                  14.5
TOTAL                   1988-93         62                                    257.3
TvDe of Staff:
I/  H   =    High level
2/  EC  =    Economist
3/  CO  =    Country Officer
4/  C   =    Consultant
5/  S   =    Specialist



- 18 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN-3081-UR)
KEY PROGRAM DATA
Loan Position as of March 31, 1994
(US$ Million)
Original        Disbursed        Cancelled         Repaid        Outstanding
Loan 3081-UR           140.0            140.0             ---              --            149.63 1'
Terms: Interest Rate                       Standard Variable Rate
Maturity                            15 years
Grace                               3 years
Time overrun:                              2 years
Borrower:                                  Republic of Uruguay
Executing Agency:                          Planning and Budget Office (OPP)
Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time to Prepare the Operation:         15 months
(b) Program Prepared with:                 Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Central Bank, and the
Planning and Budget Office with Bank assistance.
October 1987
(c) First presentation to the Bank:        October 1988
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:        May 8, 1989
(e) Completion of Negotiations:           June 19, 1989
(f) Board Approval:                       June 30, 1989
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness:         August 9, 1989
(h) Actual Date of Effectiveness:          December 1, 1992
(i) Last Disbursement Date:                December 31, 1990
(j) Initial closing date:                  December 31, 1992
(k) Actual closing date:
1/ Includes US$9.63 million of excharge adjustments















IMAGlING                                       FIXTEX
Report No:       1477'71                       Report No:        14777
Type: PCR                                      Type: PCR



