Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3081 UR
                (Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 19, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3081 UR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  19,  1989,  between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL
DEL   URUGUAY   (the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Bank  has  received  a  letter dated May 18,
1989 from the Borrower to which  it has been attached a program of
actions, objectives and  policies  designed  to achieve structural
adjustment  of  the  Borrower's  economy  (hereinafter  called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's  commitment to the execution of
the Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in the
financing  of  urgently   needed   imports  required  during  such
execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the  Borrower  by  making  the  Loan  in  tranches  as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (c)  Section 5.04 shall be modified to read:
          "Section  5.04.  Notwithstanding  the  allocation  of an
     amount  of  the   Loan   in   a  sub-category  of  withdrawal
     Category (3) of the Table (as the term is defined in the Loan
     Agreement), if the Borrower  has  notified  the Bank that the
     Banco referred  to  in  such  sub-category  has  ceased to be
     involved in the Restructuring (as  the term is defined in the
     Loan Agreement), the Bank  may  determine  that the amount of
     the  Loan  then  allocated   to   such  sub-category  may  be
     reallocated to withdrawal Category  (2)  of the Table (as the
     term is defined in the Loan Agreement)."; and
     (d)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the  program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by  the  Borrower  and the Bank of
     their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.".
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC"   means   the    Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev 3 (1986);
     (b)  "nuevo peso" and "N$" mean  the  unit of currency of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "BROU" means Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay,
a commercial bank wholly owned by the Borrower that as of April 1,
1989 was, or intended to be, the majority shareholder of the three
commercial banks referred  to  in  (d)  below  and that, after the
paying-in by Corporacion (as  the  term  is  defined below) of the
shares of each of said  banks  to  be subscribed by Corporacion in
meeting the conditions stipulated  to  in  paragraph  5 (a) (i) of
Schedule 1  to  this  Agreement,  shall  become  the  only, or the
largest, as the case may  be,  minority shareholder of each of the
said banks;  and  "Corporacion"  means  the Borrower's Corporacion
Nacional para el Desarrollo,  a  public  law entity established by
the Borrower's Law No.  15785,  as  amended  by Article 603 of Law
No. 15,903, whose share of  authorized capital stock may belong to
the Borrower or other legal entities within the public sector in a
proportion of not more  than  60%  of  said authorized capital and
that, after the  paying-in  of  shares  by Corporacion referred to
Page  3
above, shall become the majority  shareholder  of each of the said
banks; and
     (d)  "Restructuring"  means  a  plan  for  the  financial and
managerial rehabilitation, and  streamlining,  of the three viable
commercial banks operating  in  the Borrower's territory mentioned
in Category 3 of the table set  forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Loan Agreement and  which  are part of the banks mentioned
in Chapter I, Paragraph 26  of  the  Program, with a view to their
privatization, all as more  substantially  detailed in Annex II to
the letter to the Bank  from  the  Director of Planning and Budget
Office of the Borrower's Presidency referred to in the Preamble to
this Loan Agreement, and "First Phase" means the following initial
actions pursuant to such  plan,  some  of  which have been already
taken:
          (i)  remission by  the  Borrower's  Central  Bank of all
               amounts owed thereto by Banco  de la Caja Obrera on
               account of overdue  interest payments (estimated to
               amount to the  equivalent  of about $20,000,000) in
               consideration   for,   and   conditioned   to,  the
               acquisition by BROU  of  the  majority of shares of
               stock of the latter;
         (ii)  enactment of a resolution of the Borrower's Central
               Bank  reducing  the  mandatory  legal  cash reserve
               applicable   to   the   banks   included   in   the
               Restructuring;
        (iii)  commitment from  BROU  to  lend  to  Corporacion an
               amount equivalent in  the aggregate to $16,000,000,
               approximately, to be  used  by Corporacion only for
               the acquisition of shares  of  stock of each of the
               banks involved in the Restructuring; and
         (iv)  grant by BROU to each  of  the banks referred to in
               (iii)  above,  in  an  aggregate  amount  of  about
               $32,000,000, to cover the  operating losses of each
               of such banks estimated as of December 31, 1988;
     (e)  "Technical  Assistance   Project"   means   the  Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank  (Technical  Assistance  Project), dated September 2,
1987, as amended from time to time; and
     (f)  "Coordinator" means  a  person  with  qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Borrower  and  the Bank to be hired
by Corporacion pursuant to paragraph  5  (a) (iv) of Schedule 1 to
this Loan Agreement  with  the  main  function of coordinating the
activities of the officers referred to  in paragraph 5 (a) (ii) of
Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement, particularly in connection with
the  transfer,  to  a  collection   agency  or  agencies,  of  the
administration  of  doubtful  and  uncollectible  loans  from  the
portfolio of each Banco  mentioned  under  Category 3 of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, various currencies, that  shall have an aggregate value
equivalent to the  amount  of  one  hundred  forty million dollars
($140,000,000), being the sum  of  withdrawals  of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Page  4
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the   Borrower  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) The  Borrower's  Central Bank is designated
as representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts its  Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications  under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the  Bank  in  support  of  such  applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for  withdrawal  of  aggregate  amounts  of not less than
$100,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress  achieved   in   carrying   out   the   Program  and  the
Restructuring, and the actions  respectively specified in Schedule
4 to this Agreement and  in  paragraphs  4  and 5 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
Page  5
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall enter with Corporacion into
a loan agreement  under  which  the  Borrower  shall  lend to said
entity an amount in nuevos  pesos  equivalent to not less than one
hundred five million dollars  ($105,000,000),  such amount: (i) to
be utilized by  Corporacion  exclusively  to  pay-in the shares of
stock  of  banks  involved  in  the  Restructuring  subscribed  by
Corporacion pursuant to paragraph 5 (a)  (i) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) to  be  made  available  to Corporacion by the
Borrower promptly upon  the  making  of  withdrawals from the Loan
Account.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  6
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date;  Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning  of  Section  12.01  of the General Conditions,
namely, that Banco Central  shall  have issued new superintendency
regulatory norms satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 5.02.  The  date  of  September  19,  1989  is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Economy  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
          Colonia 1089
          Montevideo, Uruguay
          Cable address:                      Telex:
             MINECON                            6269 MINWCON UY
             Montevideo, Uruguay
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                        By /s/ Carlos Steneri
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  7
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid S. Hussain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds in accordance with the  allocation  of the amounts of the
Loan set forth in the table below (the Table).
                                                Amount of the
                                               Loan Allocated
                                                (Expressed in
     Category                                Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Amount of the Loan to be
     disbursed on or after the
     Effective Date                                  35,000,000
(2)  Amount of the Loan to be
     disbursed on or after the
     Effective Date subject to
     the stipulations set forth
     in paragraph 3 of this
     Schedule                                        35,000,000
(3)  Amounts of the Loan to be
     disbursed on or after the
     Effective Date subject to
     the stipulations set forth
     in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
     Schedule
     (a)  Banco Pan de Azucar                        26,385,000
     (b)  Banco Comercial                            19,815,000
     (c)  Banco La Caja Obrera                       23,800,000
                                                   ____________
          TOTAL                                     140,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,       unmanu-
                                            factured,      tobacco
                                            refuse
Page  8
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether     or    not
                                            containing     tobacco
                                            substitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive        and
                                            associated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
      718                    718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                    897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                    -              Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in nuevos pesos  or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $28,000,000  may be made on account of
payments made for  such  expenditures  before  that date but after
January 15, 1989;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   (a)  Without limitation or  restriction  to the provisions of
paragraph 2 above, no withdrawal  shall  be made and no commitment
shall be entered into to  pay  amounts  to  or on the order of the
Borrower in respect  of  expenditures  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the  Loan  allocated  to  Category  (2)  of the Table,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied,  after an exchange of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Bank:  (i)  with  the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, including maintaining
and deepening the results  of  actions already taken and described
in paragraphs 2  and  4  of  the  Program  as  well  as taking new
actions, if required, other than those referred to in (ii) herein;
and  (ii)  that  the  actions  described  in  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   Without limitation  or  restriction  upon  the  provisions of
paragraph 2 above, and  subject  to  the provisions of paragraph 5
below, no withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect  of  expenditures  to  be  financed  out  of  the proceeds
allocated to Category (3) of  the  Table, unless the Bank shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement  based  on  evidence  satisfactory  to the Bank:
Page  9
(i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of  the  Program,  in  general,   and  of  the  Restructuring,  in
particular, including any pending action under the First Phase and
any follow-up measure to the  First  Phase that may be required at
the time  of  the  exchange  of  views  in  question;  (ii) that a
Resolution shall have been issued by the Borrower Executive Branch
authorizing the increase of the  paid-up capital of Corporacion to
the maximum amount permitted under  Articles  14 and 17 (b) of the
Borrower's Law No.  15,785  of  December  4,  1985, as modified by
Article 603 of  the  Borrower's  Law  No.  15,903, of November 10,
1987; and (iii) that bonds  have  been issued by the Borrower with
the purpose of materializing the aforesaid capital increase.
5.   (a)  Further  to  the   provisions   of  paragraph  4  above,
withdrawals under Sub-categories (a),  (b)  or (c) of Category (3)
of the Table shall be  made  only  if  the Bank shall be satisfied
after an exchange of views  as  described  in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on  evidence  satisfactory  to  the Bank that: (i)
Corporacion has subscribed the  number  of  shares of stock of the
applicable Banco stipulated in 5 (b) below and has taken all steps
required to be taken  to  pay-in, promptly thereafter, the capital
so subscribed; (ii)  the  Banco  in  question  has  entered into a
contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the  Bank,  with  a  person  with  qualifications  and  experience
acceptable to the Borrower  and  the  Bank, who will discharge the
functions of chief  executive  officer  of  such  Banco during the
Restructuring;  (iii)  persons  with  adequate  qualifications and
experience have been selected to form  a new Board of Directors of
the Banco in question after the capital increase pursuant to 5 (a)
(i) above has taken place; and (iv) Corporacion has entered into a
contract on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank to hire the services of the Coordinator.
     (b)  For purposes of 5 (a) (i)  above, the shares of stock of
each Banco mentioned  under  Category  (3)  of  the Table shall be
equivalent to  the  following  amounts:  (i)  Banco  Pan de Azucar
$73,200,000; (ii) Banco Comercial  $46,400,000; and (iii) Banco La
Caja Obrera $37,400,000.
6.   If any exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement has taken  place  after  a  date  nine  months after the
Effective Date and, after  such  exchange  of views the Bank shall
have given notice to  the  Borrower  that the progress achieved or
actions taken, or both, as  the  case may be, are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress or taken actions,  or  both, as the case may be,
satisfactory to the Bank,  then  the  Bank  may,  by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Loan or any part
thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning February 1, 1995
     through August 1, 2004                          7,000,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
   Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Page  10
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Business; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Page  11
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of  funds  from  the   Loan   Account  in  respect  thereof,  such
documentation and information as  the  Bank may reasonably request
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
            Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) (ii)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
     (a)  Reduction of the  public  sector deficit, through strict
control of real expenditure  levels  or real revenue increases, to
a point where the  consolidated  public sector accounts (including
the  accounts  of  the  Borrower's  Central  Bank)  show  revenues
exceeding expenditures  (net  of  payments  of  interest and other
charges on external debt attributable  to  the sector) by a margin
of not less than 1.5% of the Borrower's gross domestic product;
     (b)  Updating of the Borrower's public investment program for
years 1989  and  1990  without  substantially  departing  from the
current public  investment  program  for  such  years  as shown in
paragraph 30 and table 2 of the Program;
     (c)  Streamlining, including acquisition  and installation of
computer equipment and starting  up of computerized operations, of
the revenue collection unit  of  Banco  de Prevision Social (BPS),
the Borrower's Social Security Bank, and submission to the Bank of
a plan of  action,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank, for rationalizing
further the  benefits  of  the  old-age,  survivors and disability
program, one of the  social  welfare programs administered by BPS,
and balancing the  finances  of  said  program  by 1992, including
preparation of  draft  administrative  measures  and, if required,
draft legislation, for these purposes;
     (d)  Preparation of a  plan  of  action,  satisfactory to the
Bank, to implement  reforms  of  the  tax  system, and to increase
effectiveness of tax collection; and
     (e)  Separation of BROU's accounts  in respect of its banking
and non-banking activities such as customs and tax collection.
