Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3949 ER 
GRANT NUMBER H114 ER 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Eritrea Power Distribution and Rural Electrification Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
Eritrean Electric Corporation 
 
Dated   September 22, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3949 ER 
GRANT NUMBER H114 ER 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ERITREAN ELECTRIC 
CORPORATION  (EEC). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Financing Agreement of even date 
herewith between the State of Eritrea (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to twenty million  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,000,000) (the Credit) and an amount 
in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,500,000) (the Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Development Financing Agreement, but only on conditions that EEC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Financing Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EEC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Financing Agreement will be made available to EEC on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS, EEC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Financing Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) EEC declares its commitment to the objectives of Parts A, B, 
and D.2 of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Financing 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and EEC shall otherwise agree, EEC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Procurement Plan and provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to 
the Development Financing Agreement and Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, consultants’ services and training required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Financing Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) EEC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B, and D.2 of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, EEC shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and EEC, a plan for the future 
operation of  Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project, designed to 
ensure its sustainability; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with EEC on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. EEC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EEC shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) EEC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Financing. 
 
(b)  
EEC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by EEC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of EEC 
 
Section 3.01. EEC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. EEC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, environmental  and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. EEC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) EEC shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project. 
(b) EEC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon EEC
’s reporting obligations set out in  
paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 4 to the Development Financing Agreement, EEC shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts A, B, and D.2 of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Financing, 
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A, B, and D.2 of 
the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Parts A, B, and D.2 of the 
Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, 
and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EEC shall:  
 
(a)  
maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 throughout the 
implementation period commencing FY 2006; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
maintain, at less than 60 day accounts, all  receivables from electricity 
sales throughout the implementation period; 
(c) 
maintain return on assets of at least 2% throughout the implementation 
period commencing FY2006; 
(d) 
partially finance its investment program throughout the implementation 
period commencing FY2006; and 
(e) 
provide adequate financing from its internal sources for Project 
counterpart contribution in respect of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
EEC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Financing 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall 
promptly notify EEC thereof. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Financing Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify EEC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand, by mail, telex or facsimile to the party 
to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For EEC: 
 
Eritrean Electric Corporation 
 
87
Nakfa Avenue 
 
PO Box 911 
 
1A176, Asmara 
 
Eritrea 
 
Facsimile: 
 
291 1 124984 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EEC, or by EEC 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Financing Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by General Manager of EEC or such other person or persons as EEC shall 
designate in writing, and EEC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Asmara, State of Eritrea as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
/s/ 
Makhtar Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
ERITREAN ELECTRIC CORPORATION 
 
By  
/s/ 
Abraham Woldemicael
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Implementation Program 
A.  
General
1. EEC 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
Procurement Plan and Financial Management Manual, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, EEC shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the such plans 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the carrying out Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. In case of any conflict between the terms of said 
documents and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail; and  
 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;  
(c) 
ensure that an updated Procurement Plan is submitted to the Association 
for its review on an annual basis by June 30 of every year of Project implementation, 
commencing June 30, 2005. 
B. Project 
Management
2. 
EEC shall:  
(a) 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a PMU, in a form and with 
functions and resources satisfactory to the Association, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, all with terms of reference, qualifications, experience and terms of employment 
satisfactory to the Association, including: (i) a Project manager; (ii) a technical advisor, 
(iii) a general services advisor, (iv) a procurement specialist; (v) an accountant; (vi) a 
public relations specialist; and (vii) an environmental coordinator;  
(b)  
the PMU shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of 
Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) carrying out procurement, (ii) 
providing technical support, (iii) managing Project finances; (iv) carrying out studies as 
per the implementation plan, (v) monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the 
work program and its impact; and (vi) implementing the ESMMP and  RPF; 
(c) 
in carrying out rehabilitation work under Part A of the Project, EEC shall 
take all measures necessary to ensure that disruptions to Asmara residents shall be 
minimized and that the residents’ concerns are adequately and timely addressed; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(d) 
 from time to time, consult, the Technical Committee in carrying out 
Part A of the Project; and the Support Committee in carrying out Part B of the Project. 
B. 
Quarterly Progress Report, Semi-Annual Reports and Midterm Reviews
3.  
Quarterly Progress Report
EEC shall:  
 
(a) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, each respective quarterly report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A, 
B, and D.2 of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out Parts A, B, and D.2 of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date;  
 
(c) 
not later than one month prior to the date of the joint semi-annual review, 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the progress Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
following each semi-annual review, act promptly and diligently in order 
to,  jointly with the Borrower, take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming identified in the implementation of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project, as 
agreed upon by the Association in furtherance of the objectives of Parts A, B, and D.2 of 
the Project. 
4. Midterm 
Review
EEC shall: 
(a) 
not later than December 30, 2006, carry out jointly with the Borrower 
and the Association a mid-term review, which shall cover: (i) overall progress in the 
implementation of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project in meeting the objectives thereof; 
and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities, as measured against the 
performance indicators;  
 
(b) 
not later than one month before such review referred to in subparagraph 
(a) above, jointly with EEC, prepare and furnish to the Association a report in such scope 
and detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of Parts A, 
B, and D.2 of the Project and achievement of the objectives thereof, including a program 
of action to deal with  potential deficiencies in the implementation of Parts A, B, and D.2 
of the Project, as may have been identified prior to carrying out such review; and  
(c) 
thereafter, act promptly and diligently, in order to take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project and the 
Page  11
-
10 - 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusion and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s view on the matter. 
C. 
Environmental and Social Framework and Resettlement Policy Framework 
5. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EEC shall: (a) carry out the 
Project in accordance with the environmental, social and resettlement guidelines, rules 
and procedures defined in the ESMMP and RPF, including the preparation and 
implementation of the appropriate RAP for compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation, 
in accordance with the RPF, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the ESMMP,  
RPF, or RAP or any provisions thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project; and 
(c) 
ensure that: (i) all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
ESMMP, RPF and RAP are taken in a timely manner; and (ii) progress reports referred to 
in Section B of this Schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring of the 
measures defined in the ESMMP, RPF and RAP. 
 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Performance Indicators 
Parts A, B, and D.2 of the Project
Output indicators
1. 
Contract for the rehabilitation and expansion of the Asmara system signed by 
May 2005. 
2. 
The rehabilitation and expansion of the Asmara system completed by March 
2008.  
3. 
Contracts for the rural electrification components signed by February 2005. 
4. 
Rural electrification component completed by August 2007. 
5. 
Contract for management information system signed by April 2005. 
6. 
Management information system installed and staff trained in its use by April 
2006. 
7. 
EEC’s accounts separated into rural and urban businesses by June 2005. 
8. 
EEC completed a study on the strengthening of its corporate planning function by 
August 2005. 
9. 
EEC completed a study on its institutional strengthening and implemented key 
recommendations by June 30, 2005. 
Outcome Indicators
1. 
Voltage in the Asmara power system do not exceed +-10% by midterm and +-5% 
by Project end of Project.  
2. 
Network losses in the Asmara system are reduced from current 18% to 13% by 
mid-term and to 7% by end of Project. 
3. 
Unplanned power supply interruptions in the Asmara power system are reduced 
by 35% by mid-term and 90% by end of Project. 
4. 
Total number of consumers connected to electricity supply in Asmara increases 
to 75,000 by mid-term and to 80,000 by end of Project. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
5. 
EEC maintains up-to-date data on new consumers and electricity sold by 
category, power interruptions, and losses for the Asmara system. 
6. 
Electricity supply extended to about 80 small towns and villages by end of  2007. 
7. 
EEC maintains up-to-date data on number of consumers and electricity sold by 
category on new rural connections. 
8. 
EEC’s management and Board timely obtain up-to-date relevant information for 
decision making by mid-2006. 
9. 
EEC maintains separate financial statements for its rural and urban businesses. 
10. 
EEC has structured and staffed its corporate planning function and it is functional 
by end of 2005. 
 
