                                    Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                    Report No: AB355

Project Name                       ERITREA - ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTION AND RURAL
                                   ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Region                             Africa Regional Office
Sector                             Power (95%); General energy sector (5%)
Theme                              Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural services and
                                   infrastructure (P); Other environment and natural resources management (S);
                                   Decentralization (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)
Project                            P057929
Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF ERITREA
Implementing Agency(ies)           ERITREA ELECTRIC AUTHORITY
                                   Address: P.O. Box 911, Asmara, Eritrea
                                   Contact Person: Abraham Woldemicael, General Manager, EEA
                                   Tel: 291-1-122228           Fax: 291-1-121468          Email:
                                   awmicael@eeahrg.org.er

                                   Ministry of Energy and Mines, Department of Energy
                                   Address: P.O. Box 5285, Asmara, Eritrea
                                   Contact Person: Mr. Samuel Baire, Director General
                                   Tel: 291-1-121541           Fax: 291-1-127652          Email: samuelb@eol.com.er


Environment Category               B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                  May 5, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                April 30, 2004
Bank Approval Date                 June 24, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Main Issues. There are four main sector issues:

First, the Eritrea Electric Authority (EEA) is the sole electricity provider in Eritrea operating under the
Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). As the Government is yet to establish the legal and institutional
framework for the power sector, the Electricity Board, Chaired by the Minister of Energy and Mines
currently governs matters pertaining to electricity in the country. Before independence, EEA was a branch
of the Ethiopian Light and Power Authority and has continued to operate largely on the basis of the
processes established at that time. It is tightly integrated into the central government administration and
budget - investment, financing, and cost recovery decisions are made at the central government level. The
Government also expects EEA to undertake non-cost recovering rural electrification. Although EEA is
relatively well operated - revenue collection and technical performance are satisfactory - it is not financially
viable, in part because some Government investment choices are beyond EEA's financial capability, nor is
it in a position to develop a meaningful business plan or manage its finances adequately because of the lack
of clear and transparent rules for the sector.

Second, access to grid electricity in Eritrea is low, especially outside of Asmara. Household level access
figures for the urban, semi-urban, and rural population are at 86 percent, 49 percent, and 3 percent
respectively. Of the over 2,600 villages in the country, only 40 villages in the vicinity of urban centers
have any access to grid power. At the present time, many rural agriculture based businesses are working

                                                           2
                                                                                                               PID


below capacity due to an insufficient and costly supply of power from small diesel generators. Hospitals
and schools experience similar problems. This is mainly due to the small capacity of the generators, the
high cost of transporting diesel to remote areas, and the high maintenance costs. The connection of rural
villages to grid electricity has, thus, the potential to increase economic activity, employment, incomes, and
the social well being. The experience of previous electrification projects suggests that this indeed has been
the case in many villages. EEA, however, is constrained to provide higher rural access because of the
lower customer density, smaller electricity demand per customer, and high cost of supply. These make
rural electrification a financially unfeasible scheme for EEA to undertake. Thus, government assistance for
rural access is necessary as is the lowering of the cost of supply to render expansion programs more viable.

Third, the distribution system in Asmara is 40-50 years old and has reached the limits of its useful life.
This has resulted in high technical losses and poor quality of supply. The obsolete distribution system also
limits the number of larger commercial and industrial customers that can be added to the network.
Moreover, the replacement and maintenance of the old equipment, which is not of international standard, is
difficult and costly. Finally, following the connection of a thermal generating plant at Hirgigo (Massawa) to
the power system in 2002, the fault levels in Asmara could exceed the interrupting capacity of some old
switchgear, setting up the potential for failure of the switchgear and eventual system breakdown.

Fourth, following the commissioning of the 88 MW (4 units a' 22 MW) Hirgigo plant, EEA now has
substantial excess generating capacity in the system - 134 MW to meet the 103,000 customers' peak
demand of 46 MW. Since Eritrea does not have hydro potential, all of its generation is oil-based. The
excess capacity was caused by the lower than expected demand growth resulting from the war and from
inadequate distribution system facilities. Hirgigo's utilization is low currently ­ only about 26% of its
installed capacity is needed to meet demand. Also, the larger units limit the operating regime and
generation operating efficiency of EEA. Although electricity from Hirgigo is lower cost than that from
EEA's older plants as it uses lower cost fuel and has a higher efficiency, its design (low-speed engine) and
the larger unit size limit its utilization at the present low demand levels. Currently, at peak times during the
day, EEA is only able to operate two units at Hirgigo, thus requiring the less efficient plant at Belesa
(Asmara) to be operated. With growing demand, it can gradually substitute more for the older plants and,
thus, reduce the average variable cost of generation.

Government Power Sector Strategy. Eritrea is at an early stage in laying down the infrastructure for
water supplies, power generation, transportation, telecommunications, schools and health services. The
Government recognizes that if Eritrea is to expand its economy, electricity supply is a strategic sector that
needs to be emphasized over the medium term. Government strategy highlights the need for increased
access to electricity for promoting income-generating activities and social services in rural areas to improve
living conditions and reduce poverty. Although the Government is yet to crystallize its longer-term vision,
the following goals emerge for the power sector:

         (a) Ensure that reliable, good quality electricity is available to a wide range of customers to
              support economic activity;
         (b) Expand electricity service to rural areas, both to improve the quality of life in these areas and
              to provide one of the essential infrastructure inputs required to facilitate productive activities,
              especially the establishment of small businesses; and
         (c) Establish a regulatory and institutional framework that will facilitate and promote the financial
              viability of the sector and the introduction of private sector participation to relieve the financial
              burden on the state and extend the sector's managerial capacity.

The Government recognizes that the development of an efficient power sector will require a move away

                                                         3
                                                                                                              PID


from the central government administered system towards the establishment of a modern institutional and
regulatory framework governing electricity production, transmission, distribution and sales. It will further
require the establishment of a transparent framework and mechanism for setting electricity tariffs for urban
and rural consumers. To set in motion this "break with the past", the Government has prepared a draft
Electricity Proclamation, with the financial support of SIDA. The purpose of the Proclamation is to
promote efficiency, safety, environmental protection and the private sector involvement in the power sector.
The Proclamation makes provisions for the establishment of a National Electricity Regulatory Board to
enforce the Proclamation and associated regulations and directives with respect to the commercial and
safety aspects of the electricity business. Under the proposed Proclamation, EEA, or any other public or
private person is allowed to apply for a licence to generate, transmit, or distribute electricity, provided that
they, among others, have the financial resources to undertake the activity. Currently, EEA would not
qualify for a license.

Therefore, to facilitate the transformation of the sector to meet the requirements of the proposed
Proclamation, the Government agreed to a substantial sector reform program that will address the current
veaknesses in the sector, increase transparency and efficiency, and prepare it for future private sector
participation. As declared in its Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 12, to be received), the Government will:

        (a) Establish EEA as an autonomous corporation under the commercial code of Eritrea, with clear
             rules for the responsibilities and accountabilities of the owner, the board, and the management;

        (b) Carry out restructuring of EEA's financial accounts to realistically reflect the company's
             revenue earning assets and liabilities, make it financially self-sufficient, and to increase fiscal
             transparency;

        (c) Segment EEAs accounts into rural and urban businesses to clearly separate EEA's commercial
             activities from the non-cost covering rural electrification activities, which EEA will implement
             with Government subsidy finacing;

        (d) Establish transparent rules for the implementation and financing of rural electrification, as this
             activity is not commercially viable for EEA to undertake from its own funds;

        (e) Carry out a tariff study and establish a transparent mechanism for tariff setting;

        (f) Establish operational and financial performance targets for both the urban and rural businesses
             of EEA;

        (g) Establish a modern institutional and regulatory framework for the power sector by approving a
             new Electricity Proclamation;

        (h) Restructure EEA to enable it to fulfill its obligations under the new Proclamation, increase
             efficiency, and meet its performance targets;and

        (i) Following approval of the Electricity Proclamation, Government will establish a Rural
             Electrification Fund to provide capital subsidies to public, cooperative, and private providers
             for rural electrification (from the grid or from stand alone or hybridized renewable energy
             technologies) based on clear selection criteria for electrification sites and financing conditions.
             The proceeds would be collected through a levy on electricity consumed, and donor and
             government contributions.

                                                          4
                                                                                                             PID




2. Objectives
In support of broad-based economic growth, the project's development objectives are to: (i) establish a
sustainable program for expanding the population's access to electricity; (ii) improve the security of
electricity supply; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of energy sector agencies, including:
regulatory, fiscal, and institutional reforms in the sector to increase efficiency and attract private
participation.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's value added will be in the following areas:

Asmara Distribution System Rehabilitation. In addition to the introduction of new technology (but proven
in other countries) that is critical to reducing the cost of infrastructure and the preservation of Asmara's
cultural heritage, the Bank's knowledge of the sector will help to facilitate optimal use of investment
resources for the sector. IDA is the only available concessionary financing source for this rehabilitation.
Finally, Bank participation will increase attention to environmental issues.

Rural Electrification. It will help to introduce new technology to Eritrea (but proven in other countries)
that is critical to reducing the cost of infrastructure in rural areas; to support implementation of proper
environmental and social safeguards; ensure that increased electricity access is integrated with provision of
training to gain the maximum benefits from the availability of reliable electricity service as quickly as
possible. The Bank support for rural electrification will be grant financing, which will increase
affordability and contribution to the social development of this post-conflict country. Given the Bank's
experience and expertise in rural electrification, it is in a strong position to assist Eritrea in finding
alternative institutional arrangements that promise better sustainability of results than the traditional public
utility approach.

Institutional Reform. The Bank's experience in other countries offers comparative advantage and allows
sound policy advice to the Government in building up Eritrea's power sector. The Bank's financial and
coordinating resources will help the Government to advance institutional reforms initiated with bilateral
support and would bring to the table knowledge of successful reforms of the power sector elsewhere. The
Bank is in a unique position to combine lessons from other countries to help develop a new approach to
expansion of electricity access.

4. Description
A. Asmara Distribution System Rehabilitation and Expansion (US$35.73 million of which US$32.88
IDA credit financed)

This component seeks to remove operating constraints on the distribution system in the city, reduce losses,
and meet the forecast increase in demand over the next 20 years.

Investments. The project will finance: (a) the complete replacement of the old 5.5kV medium voltage
system by a more efficient and modern 15kV system; (b) the elimination of the old fashioned and unreliable
127/220V low voltage system, replacing it with an efficient 400/230V system; and (c) a new 66/15 kV
substation at Asmara North, plus upgrading/rehabilitation of the existing substations at Gejeret and Denden
and minor works at Asmara East and Belesa substations. In addition, the project will finance the
undergrounding of the medium voltage system in the old historic city center, where space is at premium and
the replacement of the current, dangerous, open-wire systems by a safe aerial bunched cable (ABC). The
project also will finance the replacement of service connections and new meters for affected consumers.

                                                        5
                                                                                                              PID


These investments will significantly increase the network's load carrying capacity and drastically reduce
losses as a result of upgrading to the higher operating voltage. The upgrading will help unify EEA's city
distribution standards, as other cities and the new suburbs of Asmara are already operating at the new
voltage. Preparation of this component is based on studies previously carried out by independent
consultants and updated during preparation.

Technical Assistance: Training and consulting services to EEA on project design, management,
construction, and operation.

B. Rural Electrification (US$16.73 million of which US$12.68 IDA grant financed)

This component will support the Government's strategy to increase the population's access to electricity. It
includes two sub-components: (i) the electrification of about 80 villages and small towns around four main
towns ­ Keren, Barentu, Dekemhare and Adi Keih - through grid extensions by EEA; and (ii) seed funding
for the Government's Rural Electrification Fund to be established following the approval of the Electricity
Proclamation.

B1. Grid Electrification by EEA

Investments: The project will finance the extension of the medium voltage distribution lines from the larger
towns to the center of the selected villages, the distribution transformers, the low voltage distribution lines,
and a number of service connections.

In accordance with the procedure for rural electrification in Eritrea, the villagers pay for the cost of the low
voltage reticulation in the village as an upfront payment. The contributions for each householder are
determined by the Village Administrator on the basis of `ability to pay'. EEA collects the service
connection costs directly from the consumers. In addition, the householder has to pay for simple house
wiring. As the project will finance the entire connection costs in the selected villages, it was agreed with
the Government and EEA that EEA would collect the payments from the villages and deposit them in the
Rural Electrification Fund to benefit future electrification. This arrangement will ensure consistency with
the financing arrangement in villages that have been recently electrified with government and SIDA
financing. An upfront payment will also increase the villages' ownership of the project. The payment
depends on the size of the village - the larger and/or the more compact the village the less they pay. For
those electrified during 2002/2003 the average payment was 920 Nfa per household (the average reported
annual household income in the project's target villages varies from 2,119 to 19,295 Nfa). It is expected
that the systematic planning and the new distribution standards under this project will reduce the cost. The
project will also establish an improved payment mechanism whereby consumers can elect to pay the
connection cost in annual installments.

Technical Assistance. The project will finance training and consulting services to EEA on project design,
management, construction, and operation. An important aspect is enabling EEA to smoothly integrate, in
its operational and maintenance procedures, the requirements of the new low-cost distribution standards
that the project will introduce, including a mixed system of single phase and three phase distribution.

B2. Seed Funding for the Rural Electrification Fund

The Government will establish a Rural Electrification Fund to finance capital subsidies to qualifying
schemes to electrify additional villages either by EEA, village cooperatives, or private energy service
companies. The project will provide, through an IDA post-conflict grant, seed funding to this Fund once

                                                         6
                                                                                                              PID


the Government has established it with suitable administrative management arrangements and has
developed clear selection criteria for rural electrification. Thus, the project will be able to provide
financing for community or private sector electrification schemes in the latter part of the implementation
period.

C. Sector Reform and Institutional Capacity Building (US$4.52 of which $US$4.03 IDA grant
financed)

This component will assist the Government to implement its power sector reform program. It supports the
development of the institutional and regulatory aspects of the power sector and includes advisory services,
studies, and training for: (a) the finalization and implementation of the Government's new Electricity
Proclamation establishing a modern legal and regulatory framework for the power sector; (b) the
establishment of the institutional and regulatory arrangements for rural electrification, including the Rural
Electrification Fund - a mechanism for the Government to promote electrification in areas that would not be
commercially viable without a capital subsidy; (c) the establishment of a suitable regulatory function based
on the framework stipulated in the Electricity Proclamation; (d) the establishment of a suitable tariff setting
policy and mechanism; (e) the building of EEA's technical and planning capacity; (f) capacity building for
sector agencies, MEM and EEA, and for private enterprises and village cooperatives interested in
participating in power distribution; and (g) consulting services for M&E of project outputs and impacts.

With regard to the development of rural electrification approaches, the project will finance assistance to
the Government, through the MEM, to promote cooperative and private sector participation in electricity
supply. This will be achieved through training and technical assistance for the development of business
models and operational procedures for rural electricity cooperatives, private energy service companies, and
individual entrepreneurs to enable them to manage electricity services in rural areas. The business models
will promote ownership by the beneficiaries and will be required to be self supporting after the distribution
system is built using a capital subsidy. Additionally, the project will test an alternative approach of
engaging the private sector in the management of rural electricity services, in line with the Government's
policy. This will involve training of electrical practitioners in the villages to do in-house wiring as this is
not done by EEA staff as part of the project. Potential trainees are the demobilized youth who were
engaged in the defense of the country. EEA could also engage the trainees as agents to distribute and
collect electric bills and conduct minor extensions to new customer sites. They could also widen the scope
of their services by engaging in other energy systems like distribution of LPG, kerosene, or renewable
energy technologies. As rural electrification intensifies, these private practitioners could develop into rural
energy service companies.

D. Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation (US$0.55 million of which US$0.46 million IDA grant
financed)

This component will finance the cost of implementing the Environmental and Social Management Plan for
the project. The main activities to be financed are: (i) training for EEA's Project Management Unit, MEM,
and the Zoba and Village Administrators; (ii) implementation of the M&E activities; (iii) implementation of
a compensation plan for loss of crops during construction of power lines under the Asmara distribution
rehabilitation and rural electrification components; and (iv) environmental audits at the end of the project.
EEA will finance the compensation plan.



Project Cost
Asmara distribution rehabilitation and expansion

                                                        7
                                                                                                               PID


Rural electrification
Rural Electrification Fund
Sector reform and institutional capacity building
Environmental monitoring and mitigation

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($5.00)
IDA ($33.00)
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT ($17.00)
Total Project Cost: $55.00

6. Implementation
Implementing Agencies

EEA will be responsible for the implementation of the Asmara distribution rehabilitation and expansion
component and the rural electrification component, including procurement of all supply and installation
equipment and works. EEA will also implement the EEA capacity building activities of the Sector Reform
component. The MEM will be responsible for the overall coordination of the project, the implementation of
the Sector Reform component - including procurement of all consultant services and goods-, the
implementation of the Rural Electrification Fund component, monitoring and evaluation of the activities
related to the environmental, social and rural electrification aspects of the project, and the development and
execution of the institutional and training activities for the private and cooperative electricity distribution
business.

EEA will manage the implementation of its components through its Project Management Unit (PMU),
headed by a full time Project Manager. Other key staff include a Technical Advisor and a General Services
Advisor. To meet the needs of this project, EEA will complement the PMU with an Accountant, an
Environmental Specialist, and a Public Relations Specialist. The Accountant is an existing EEA staff
member, while the Environmental Specialist is a staff member of the Ministry of Land, Water, and
Environment, who's involvement will be part-time. EEA will assign the Public Relations Specialist before
the project's effectiveness to handle, in particular, the interface with electricity consumers in Asmara. To
the extent possible, the PMU will utilize existing EEA staff engaged in the normal day-to-day operations of
the utility with the objective of capacity building.

The PMU will work closely with the engineering consultants, already hired during the project's preparation
period. Further, the PMU will coordinate the implementation of the Asmara component and to discuss any
implementation issues as they arise with the advisory Technical Support Committee EEA has established
for the project (TORs available in project files). The committee includes officials from the Asmara
Department of Infrastructure, the Department of Water, the Department of Environment, the
Telecommunication Services of Eritrea, and the National Museum. The committee will meet at least
semi-annually or as often as required. The EEA will implement the Resettlement Plan whenever
resettlement/compensation is triggered in the course of project implementation.



                      Organizational Structure of EEA's Project Management Unit

                                                         8
                                                                                                        PID



                                           GENERAL MANAGER
                                           M r. Abraham W. Micael




                                           PROJECT MANAGER
                                             Mr. Habtu G/Amlak


      ENVIRONMENT & SOCIAL
            MANAGEMENT
             Dept. of Energy




             TECHNICAL SERVICE                                      GENERAL SERVICE
           M r. Fessehatsion G/Medhin                              Mr. Tzeggai A/Haimanot


                               ASMARA REHABILITATION                           PROCUREMENT

                               RURAL ELECTRIFICATION                           FINANCE

                               CIVIL WORKS                                     PUBLIC RELATIONS




MEM has assigned a full-time Project Coordinator (PC) who will be supported by MEM's existing
accounting and procurement staff, and the institutional consultants to be engaged during project
implementation. The PC will establish an advisory Supporting Committee with members from the
Department of Environment, the Heads of the Economic Department of the respective Zobas, and EEA's
Project Manager to oversee the implementation of the environmental and social mitigation measures in the
rural electrification component (TORs for the Supporting Committee are in project files). The Supporting
Committee will meet at least semi-annually and as often as required to discuss issues arising from
implementation. MEM will also provide training to Village Administrators (VAs) to conduct village level
environmental and social impact screening and evaluation, mitigation, and resettlement. The PC will
coordinate with Zoba and Village Administrators in the project areas to ensure popular participation that
includes initial payments for cost sharing and securing optimum rights of way for the network extensions.

Both EEA and MEM will work closely with the elected VAs in implementing the rural component. The
VAs will represent their communities, act as a liaison between the local community and EEA and MEM,
and organize popular participation for financial contributions to the project.


                  Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)

                                                      9
                                                                                                          PID



                                                     MINISTER
                                                   Energy and Mines



                                                                            SECRETARY



                                  AUDIT                             PLANNING & STATISTICS



                                                                      ADMINISTRATION &
                                                                           FINANCE




                                           DOE                               DOM




                     ENERGY              ENERGY              HYDROCARBON
                   RESEARCH &         MANAGEMENT &          EXPLORATION &
                     TRAINING         DEVELOPMENT             PROMOTION
                     CENTER              DIVISION               DIVISION


                                               MANAGEMENT


                                               DEVELOPMENT
                                                 PLANNING


                                                 REGIONAL
                                               AFFAIRS UNIT




Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements

The Bank has assessed the financial management and accounting systems of EEA and MEM. Both
institutions have accounting systems that allow for proper recording of financial transactions, with
adequate controls for preparation and approval of transactions. The accounting departments of the two
institutions are headed by qualified accountants with several years of experience, and both have centralized
accounting functions. Given the size of the project, EEA has decided that the Finance and Administration
Manager, who is also the head of the accounting department, will be the appointed accountant specifically
to keep and monitor the project's accounting records. The report summarizing the financial management
assessment of the implementing agencies is included in the project files.

EEA and the MEM will independently maintain accounting records for their part of the project and will
ensure appropriate accounting of the funds. Each entity will be responsible for designing and preparing, on
quarterly basis, appropriate Progress Reports, including Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) reflecting:
the status of implementation progress; problems encountered and corrective measures envisaged; and
current cost of each project component together with estimated costs of completion. The Bank has
provided a thorough presentation of the FMR requirements to the both EEA and MEM accounting staff,
including the World Bank publication Financial Monitoring Reports - Guidelines for Borrowers.

                                                       10
                                                                                                            PID




Both EEA and MEM will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements are audited annually
according to international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The annual
audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Annual Financial Reporting and Auditing for
World bank-Financed Activities (June 30, 2003). Acceptable accounting standards are International
Financial Reporting Standards and International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS) issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), or International Public Sector Accounting Standards
(PSAS) issued by the Public Sector Committee of the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC-PSC). A broad outline of the expected contents of the annual financial statements have already
been agreed and will be confirmed during negotiations. EEA is a continuing entity and has an existence
independent of the implementation of operation to be financed by the IDA credit and grant. The annual
financial statements, therefore, required to be submitted to IDA would be those of the entity as a whole, and
not just for the project. In this regard, EEA will submit a full set of financial statements (balance sheet,
income statement, etc.), with additional disclosure (for example by way of note or supporting schedule or
statement) of sufficient information on sources and uses of funds associated with the IDA-financed
activities. MEM will submit annual financial statements to reflect all activities for their part of the project.
In addition to the audit reports, the auditors will prepare a management letter giving comments,
observations, and recommendations for improvement on the accounting records, systems and controls that
have been examined during the course of the audit. Both EEA and MEM will send the audited financial
statements to the Bank within six months following the end of the entity's fiscal year.

Disbursement Arrangements:

The proposed project is a blend of credit and grant financing and the diagram below describes in pictorial
form the expected flow of funds and reporting arrangements. The proceeds of the credit and those of the
grant should not be mixed and there will therefore be a need to maintain separate accounting records as
well as bank accounts. Three special accounts will be required. EEA will maintain two accounts - one for
the credit and the other for the grant, while MEM will maintain one account for the grant. All the three
accounts will be opened in a bank acceptable to IDA. Detailed funds flow and reporting arrangement will
be developed for the Rural Electrification Fund during the initial project implementation period.




                 CREDIT                          IDA                       GRANT



                                                                        MEM
        Credit                             Grant                                                      RE
     Special A/C           EEA           Special A/C            Grant Special A/C                   FUND


                            Flow of Funds
                            Reporting


Procurement Arrangements:

                                                        11
                                                                                                           PID


The EEA and the MEM will be responsible for all procurement funded by the project. They will handle the
procurement requests according to agreed procurement plans.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:

Monitoring of outputs and evaluation of impacts will be guided by the project design summary in Annex 1
and the implementation plan through: (i) quarterly progress reports; (ii) Bank supervision missions; (iii)
project mid-term review; and (iv) M&E reports by independent parties. Annex 11 discusses the monitoring
and evaluation arrangements in detail.

IDA implementation review missions will take place twice a year to review progress. A mid-term
evaluation of the Project will take place no later than 24 months after Credit effectiveness in accordance
with the terms of reference agreed upon by the Government and IDA. The EEA and the MEM will prepare
a mid-term report detailing achievement of development objectives and implementation progress under all
project components and identifying implementation issues. They will submit this report to the Government
and IDA not later than two months prior to the mid-term review. During the mid-term review, in response
to the implementation issues identified, appropriate solutions will be developed. If required, project design
will be modified. Finally, EEA and the MEM will transmit a project implementation completion report,
within six months of project closing to IDA.

7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the Asmara distribution rehabilitation and extension will be improved through the
implementation of effective commercialization and reform program in the power sub-sector and EEA.
Sustainability also requires EEA's tariffs to be adjusted on a timely basis so as to ensure that the company
fully recovers the cost of its operations.

For rural electrification, the project design aims to lower the cost of providing service by adopting
technologies that match demand and by encouraging communities and local enterprises to take on the
management responsibility of local distribution business. Project design addresses sustainability also by
requiring the selected villages to pay vcertain portion of the connection costs. Adequate administration of
the Rural Electrification Fund would increase sustainability through the transparent mechanism for the
selection and subsidizing of schemes. Finally, the project will build Government capacity in its role as a
market facilitator to foster private sector involvement in the electricity business.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from Eritrea:

Rehabilitation of the Massawa Distribution System. This project, financed by the EU, is similar to
the Asmara component, though much smaller in size and having a different implementation arrangements.
The materials were supplied by international contractors, while the works were carried out by EEA staff.
The project is now nearing completion and had a number of lessons that will help improve implementation
of the Asmara component. These include the delay of work caused by the split between supply and
installation aspects of the project; EEA was also slow on reinstating roads and sidewalks after excavation;
and it should have informed consumers of the precautions needed to prevent appliance failures after voltage
conversion.

Rehabilitation of Asmara Water Supply. Although consumers were satisfied with the improvement in the
supply of water, implementation had its challenges. According to the stakeholders, the implementing
agency should have coordinated better with other utilities and the city administration; it should have

                                                        12
                                                                                                             PID


speedily cleared streets from debris and wreckage remnants from the work crews, and it could have planned
the work better to avoid blockage of roads and traffic jams.

Learning from the above experiences, the Asmara component will be carried out as a turn-key project, with
international contractors taking responsibility for all project phases. To increase acceptance and
preparedness, and to avoid the water project's problems, EEA held extensive consultations with
stakeholders in Asmara. Because of the nature of rehabilitation, it will be impossible to avoid blockage of
some streets and it will also not be possible to reinstate broken-up roads and sidewalks immediately. EEA
has therefore agreed to plan the works so that only one section of the town would be rehabilitated at a time.
This should minimize nuisance/disruption to inhabitants. In addition, EEA will implement an information
campaign to ease consumers' transition to the new voltage level.

Global lessons:

Important to simplify design and avoid implementation arrangements that are too complex for the
Borrower. The project will have three well-defined components. The institutional component will be
implemented by MEM. The Asmara component will be implemented by international contractors through a
turn key arrangement. The rural component will for most part follow the processes used for earlier rural
projects. If new technology and institutional arrangements are chosen, the project will provide training to
EEA, MEM and the villagers on installation and operation.

Need for advanced procurement to minimize project delays, especially as this proposed Project will
be the first Bank operation in the electricity sector in Eritrea. Draft procurement documents will be
finalized before implementation begins (before the project is presented to the Board).

Important to consult with beneficiaries and other stakeholders to ensure a viable project design. As
discussed in sections 5 and 6, EEA and MEM have consulted widely on the design of the project.

Rural electrification projects should: (i) charge right price but help with upfront costs; (ii) subsidies
should encourage not destroy business incentives; (iii) have clear criteria to select villages included in the
project; (iv) reduce costs by promoting low-cost equipment and technical specifications; and (v) involve
community participation rather than top-down master plans.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : The Borrower carried out the Environmental and Social Assessment in full compliance
with Eritrean and World Bank standards for environmental and social impact assessment. The report was
produced in two volumes; the Environment and Social Assessment (ESA) Report, which includes the
Environmental and Social Management and Monitoring Plan (ESMMP), and the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF). In compliance with the Pelosi amendment, all documents were approved by ASPEN
and disclosed in the Infoshop, as well as in Eritrea, prior to appraisal.

The MEM established a multi-disciplinary Task Team to prepare the ESA report in February 2003. Public
consultations commenced in March 2003. The socio-economic assessment was tendered to local
consultants and the successful bidder started fieldwork in May 2003. The main thrust of the fieldwork was
to obtain a full understanding of the socio-economic environment of the project areas. Simultaneously, all
aspects of the physical and biological environment were examined in detail to establish pre-project
conditions, assess the degree of impact, and to design and plan the implementation and monitoring of
mitigation measures. The Department of Geography of the University of Asmara was largely responsible
for compiling the sections relating to the physical and biological environment. The detailed ESA

                                                          13
                                                                                                      PID


investigations were conducted in June/July of 2003. The Borrower incorporated the recommendations from
a stakeholders' workshop, which discussed both the ESA findings and the mitigation measures, into the
report; specifically, into the ESMMP (Chapter 9 of the ESA report).

Significant environmental issues:

Environmental impacts                                                          Rating of impacts

Excavation of underground cables on urban traffic                                     Moderate
Denial of or restrictive access to economic resources, land, fodder, property,        Moderate
buildings, roadside trees, etc
Private land, garden requirement for transformers                                         Low
Slow backfilling of excavated surface                                                    High
Dust and dirt                                                                         Moderate
Damage to other underground systems                                                       Low
Erection of overhead ABC cables, open wire overhead                                       Low
The cutting of trees and branches                                                         Low




10. List of factual technical documents:
1. Distribution and Voltage Conversion Study of Asmara, IVO Power Engineering Ltd. and Electrowatt
Engineering Ltd., 1998.

11. Contact Point:

      Task Manager
      Paivi Koljonen
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone: 202-473-3229
       Fax: 202-473-5123

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:      (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

