                                            Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 29149-ER




                               PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                        PROPOSEDCREDIT

        INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR20MILLION(US$29.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT) AND
      A PROPOSEDGRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.5 MILLION(US$21.0 MILLION
                                          EQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                        STATEOF ERITREA

                                                FOR

         ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT

                                            JUNE4,2004




EnergyUnit (AFTEG)
Africa Region
This document has a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipientsonly inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective May 30,2004)
                  Currency Unit = EritreanNakfa
                        1ERN = US$00.07
                         US$1 = ERN 13.50


                      January 1 -- December 31
                         FISCAL YEAR


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




                  WEIGHTSAND MEASURES


       Kilowatt (kW)         -
                             -       1,000 watts
       Megawatt (MW)         -       1,000 kilowatt (kW)
       Gigawatt hour (GWh) =         1million kilowatt hours (kWh)
       Kilometer (km)        -       1,000 meters
       Meter (m)             -       39.3 inches


                 Vice President:    Callisto E.Madavo
      Country ManagedDirector:      Makhtar Diop

  '    Sector Managermirector:      Yusupha B.Crookes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      PaiviKoljonen

                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
            ABC      Aerial BunchedCable
            APL      Adaptable Program Loan
            CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
            C E M    Country Economic Memorandum
            CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
            CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
            DRP      Demobilizationand ReintegrationProgram
            DSCR     Debt Service CoverageRatio
            EEA      EritreaElectric Authority
            EEC      Eritrean Electric Corporation
            EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
            EMP      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
            ESA      Environment and Social Assessment
            ESMMP Environmentaland Social Management and MonitoringPlan
            FMR      FinancialMonitoring Report
            FRR      Financial Rate of Return
            GNP      General Procurement Notice
            GoE      Government of Eritrea
            HFO      Heavy Fuel Oil
            IAPSO    InternationalAgency Procurement Services Office
            I A S    InternationalAccounting Standard
            IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
            IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
            IFRS     InternationalFinancialReporting Standard
            LPG      LiquefiedPetroleum Gas
            MEM      MinistryofEnergyandMines
            NFA      Net ForeignAssets
            NGO      Non-GovernmentalOrganization
            NPV      Net PresentValue
            O&M      Operation and Maintenance
            P M U    Project Management Unit
            PPF      Project Preparation Facility
            RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
            RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
            SBD      Standard Bid Documents
            SCL      SingleCurrency Loan
            SIDA     Swedish InternationalDevelopmentAgency
             SIL     Specific Investment Loan
             SWER    Single Wire Earth Return
            TOR      Terms of Reference
            UNDP     UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
             VA      Village Administrator

Thisdocument hasa restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                              ERITREA
      ERITREAPOWERDISTRIBUTIONAND RURALELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                         Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices                    6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                   8
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported bythe project                        10
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection                            16
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies        17
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  18
   4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                      19
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         119

E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                            21
   2. Financial                                                                           24
   3. Technical                                                                           27
   4. Institutional                                                                       27
   5. Environmental                                                                       28
   6. Social                                                                              31
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  34

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                      36
   2, Criticalrisks                                                                       36

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                         37


G. Main Conditions

  1. EffectivenessCondition                                                 38
  2. Other                                                                  39

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                              40

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                40



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                             41
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                        44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                            50
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                      51
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-EarningProject Entities              66
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                       70
         (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                        84
Annex 8: Documents inthe ProjectFile                                        86
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                    86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                               90
Annex 11:Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements                             92
Annex 12: Government of Eritrea Letter of Sector Policy                     93




IBRD-33230 - Eritrea Power Distribution and Rural ElectrificationProject
MAP(S)

                                                  ERITREA
               ERITmAPOWERDISTRIBUTIONAND RURALELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT
                                     ProjectAppraisal Document
                                            Africa Regional Office
                                                   AFTEG

Date: June 4,2004                                      Team Leader: Paivi Koljonen
Sector Manager: Yusupha Crookes                         Sector(s): Power (95%), General energy sector (5%)
Country Director: Makhtar Diop                         Theme@): Infrastructure services for private sector
Project ID: PO57929                                    development (P), Rural services andinfrastructure (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)     other envh"It      andnatural ~"-ceS      management (s),
                                                       Decentralization (S), Regulation and competitionpolicy
                                                       (SI

 [ ]Loan      [XI Credit     [XI Grant     [ ] Guarantee        [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 50

ProposedTerms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period(years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitmentfee: 0.5%                                     Servicecharae: 0.75%
                                                                     -
FinancingPlan(US$m):        Source                                  Local          Foreign             Total
BORROWEFURECIPIENT                                                     7.20    I         0.00    I        7.20
IDA                                                                                                     29.00
                                                   -
IDA GRANT FORPOST-CONFLICT                                    I        o'oo
                                                                       0.15    1I      20.8529*00II     21.00
Total:
*                                                                      7.35            49.85            57.20
BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF ElUTREA                                                       -=3



Responsibleagency: ERITREANELECTRICCORPORATION
Address: P.O. Box 911, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Mr.Abraham Woldemicael, General Manager, EEC
Tel: 291-1-122228              Fax: 291-1-121468                Email: eeahrg@eol.com.er
Other Agency(ies):
MinistryofEnergy andMines, Department ofEnergy
Address: P.O. Box 5285, Asmara, Eritrea
Contact Person: Mr.Samuel Baire, Director General
Tel: 291-1-121541              Fax: 291-1-127652                Email: samuelb@eol.com.er




          I         I                                              I          I                       I
Cumulative1   6.10  I    18.90 I     35.70 I    47.90 I     50.00 I                                   I
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 11/30/2004 Expectedclosingdate: 06/30/2009




                                                    - 1 -

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
1.1     Insupport ofbroad-basedeconomic growth, the project's development objectives areto: (a)
establish a sustainable program for expanding the population's access to electricity; and (b) improve the
quality and reliability of electricity supply. To meet these objectives, the project will help finance: (a)
the rehabilitation and expansion o f the Asmara city distribution system; (b) a rural electrification
program; and (c) a programfor power sector reformand the buildingofrelated institutional capacity to
increase efficiency and attract privateparticipation.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project seeks the following outcomes:

2.1     For expanded electricity access: (a) establishment o fthe EritreanElectric Corporation (EEC) as
an independent and financially self-sustaining power corporation; (b) the adoption of a modernpower
sector regulatory and institutional framework, conducive for future private sector participation; and (c)
extension of electricity supply to about 30,000 new rural consumers, either directly or indirectly through
improvedpublic services.

2.2     For improved quality and reliability of electricity supply: (a) reduction o f voltage fluctuations
andpower outages inAsmara to acceptable levels; and (b) decrease innetwork energy losses inAsmara
from the current levelof 18 percent to about 7 percent.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project: (see h e x 1)
Document number: 21152-ER          Date of latestCAS discussion: November 22,2000

1.1     The Government is preparing an I-PRSP. The current draft provides the Government's initial
articulation of the overall thrust o f its development strategy, medium-term plans, andpriorities to achieve
sustainable reduction inpoverty. The crux o fthis strategy i s the restoration o f economic growth, the
maintenance o f macroeconomic stability, andthe increase inincome o f the poor segments ofthe
population.

1.2     BuildinguponEritrea's development needs, the Bankispreparingan InterimSupport Strategy
(ISS) Update. This Update follows the ISS approvedby the Board onNovember 22,2000. The 2000
ISS described the Bank's strategy inresponse to the humanitarian crisis following the endo f the conflict
with Ethiopia focusing on emergency reconstructionandhealth. The ISSwill update the strategy for
Bank involvement inEritrea inthe next two years, designed to:

    a) increase transparency inpublic sector policy and operations;
    b) initiate the transition of the national development agendatowards a sustainable macroeconomic
        framework;
    c) improvepublic expenditure planning andmanagement;
    d) enhancepublic service delivery; and
    e) addressbasic human development and critical infkastructure bottlenecks.

This project is an integralpart ofIDA'Sassistance strategy and focuses on supporting the achievement of
items (d) and (e).



                                                       - 2 -

1.3      Use of an IDA post-conflict grant. Given Eritrea's post-conflict situation, the project will use
an IDApost-conflict grant to finance the project's rural electrification and institutional capacitybuilding
components. The grant will finance the rural electrification and institutional components becausethey
will contribute significantly to the country's social andeconomic reconstructionefforts andmeetingthe
MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs) for Eritrea.

1.4      Without the grant, it would be necessaryto either reduce the ruralelectrification and the
institutional components or increasethe amount o f the Credit inorder to finance them. Neither o f these
solutions is preferable to the blendingo f fundingsources. A reductioninthe scope o fthe rural
electrification programwould reduce opportunities to stimulate growth, increase incomes, and improve
health and education services inrural areas. Increasingthe amount o f the Credit would increase the
scope o f opportunity but at a highercost to the country.

2. Mainsector issuesand Government strategy:
Main Issues. The four mainsector issues are the following:

2.1      Issue 1. Deficiencies inthe Power Sector's Regulatory and Institutional Framework. The
Eritrea Electric Authority (EEA) became the EECby the EritreanElectric CorporationEstablishment
ProclamationinMay 2004. EEA was a branch o f the EthiopianLightandPower Authority (EELPA)
untilEritrea's independence in 1993. Forthe past decade, the EEAhasbeenthe soleprovider o f
electricity inEritrea, operating under the Ministryo f EnergyandMines (MEM).Its operations have been
tightlyintegratedinto the Government's administrative andbudgetaryframework. Although revenue
collection andtechnical performance have been satisfactory, EEA'soperations have not been very
profitable. The lack o f financial viability has resulted inpart because some investment choices that
Government has made for the EEAhave been beyondthe utility's financial capability. Inparticular, the
Governmenthas directedEEAto electrify rural areas without assurance o f cost recovery. Furthermore,
EEAhasnotbeeninapositionto developameaningfulbusinessplanor manage its finances adequately
becauseof its weak institutional capacity andthe lack o f sound sector management policy. As EEA's
successor, EEC has inheriteda power sector framework inan early state o f transition to a legal and
institutional framework that will allow the company to operate as a commercial entity and eventually
attract other private operators o fpower systems. However, it will take time for the necessarychanges in
the framework to take place and the Government requires assistanceinimplementing its power sector
reformprogram and improving the institutional capability o f EECto operate as a company.

2.2      Issue 2. Low Access to Electricity inRuralAreas. Eritrea's total rural population is about 3.2
million or nearly triple the populationinurban areas (1.1million). However, access to electricity inrural
areas is only 3 percent compared to 86 percent inurban areas and about 49 percent insemi-urban areas.
Electrification inrural areas covers only 40 o f Eritrea's 2,600 villages. The lack o f electricity access
limitstheproductivity ofexistingruralbusinessesandthe creation ofnewbusinessesmadepossibleby
low-cost, reliable power supply. Inaddition, without electricity access, individualhouseholds lackthe
higher quality o f lightingthat electricity provides, compared to kerosene, as well as modern
communications devices. The maineconomic activity inrural areas is agriculture. Innon-electrified
areas, power for rural enterprises, especially for farms, either comes from human labor or individual,
small diesel-powered pumps and generators. Rain fed agriculture, the predominant economic activity for
more than halfthe population, i s a very risky enterprise since the climate o f Eritrea i s mostly arid or
semi-arid. Annual rainfall ranges from under 20 to 75 centimeters andthe country has to contendwith
large food deficits from year to year. The diesel-poweredpumpsthat many farmers use for mechanized
irrigation are inefficient andbreak down often. The maintenance o f these is expensive and fuel costs are

highbecauseofthe considerable cost oftransporting diesel fuel to remoteareas ofthe country.
Institutions inrural areas, such as schools andhospitals, either have no access to electricity or face
similar problems inobtaining supply from small diesel generators.

2.3       The connection of ruralvillages to gridelectricity will enable farmers to switch from
diesel-powered pumps to electric pumps, reducing the cost o fmotive power and improving its reliability.
Also, farms that currently do not use mechanized pumpingwill have the option o f switching to
laborsaving electric-poweredsystems with the availability o f a lower-cost source o fmotive power.
Furthermore, the experience o f similar electrification projects inEritrea and other parts o f the world
suggests that accessto electricity will help stimulate newbusinessesand improve social service delivery,
resultinginoverall improved well being inrural areas. EEC, on its own, is financially constrained in
extending electricity access to rural areas. Extensions are costly due mainly to the low customer density
and small electricity demandper customer inrural areas. Therefore, inorder to expand rural
electrification, some initial assistancefrom the Government will be required to make it more viable and
stimulate private sector development o f electricity service delivery enterprises.

2.4       Issue3. DeterioratingConditionof the Asmara DistributionSystem. The distribution
system inAsmara i s 40-50 years old and hasreachedthe limits o f its useful life. This has resultedin
hightechnical lossesandpoor quality ofsupply. The obsolete distribution systemalso limitsthe number
o f additional large commercial and industrial customers that the system can accommodate. Moreover,
the replacement andmaintenance o f the old equipment, which i s not up to international standards, i s
difficult and costly. Finally, since the connection o f a thermal generating plant at Hirgigo (Massawa) to
the power system in2002, it i s possible that fault levels inAsmara couldexceed the interrupting capacity
o f some old switchgear, setting up the potential for failure o f the switchgear and eventual system
breakdown.

2.5       Issue4. Needfor ImprovedManagementof Generating Capacity. Followingthe
commissioning o f the 88 MW Hirgigo plant, consisting of four unitso f 22 MW each, Eritrea now has
substantial excessgenerating capacity inthe system. The total capacity i s 134MW or more than double
the 46 MW peak demand of the system's 108,000 customers. Since Eritrea does not have hydro potential,
all o f its generation comes from imported oil. The excess system generating capacity has resultedfrom
the deleterious impact o f war, which dampened demand growth and inadequate distribution system
facilities. The Hirgigoplant currently utilizes only about 26 percent o f its installed capacity to meet
demand. The cost o f electricity from Hirgigo i s significantly less than that o f the older plants inthe
systembecauseit uses lower-cost fuel and has a higher efficiency due to low-speed engine design.
However, the large size o f its units limit the plant's utilization at the present low demand levels. Evenat
peak times duringthe day, EECcan operate only two o f the four units at Hirgigo, while duringoff-peak
times it i s forced to operate a less efficient plant at Belesa (Asmara). However, with demand growth, as
the post-conflict economy develops, the substitution o f the new units for the older plants inthe system
will reduce the averagevariable cost o f generation.

          GovernmentPower Sector Strategy

2.6       Eritrea i s at an early stage inestablishingthe necessaryinfrastructure for water supply, power
generation, transportation, telecommunications, schools and health services. The Government recognizes
that the electricity sector i s one o f the strategic infrastructure sectors that need support over the medium
term to reduce poverty inEritrea. Inparticular, the Government's infrastructure development strategy
highlightsthe needfor increasedaccessto electricity inorder to promote income-generating activities
and social services inrural areas. These developments will improve living conditions and, inturn, reduce



                                                           - 4 -

poverty. While the Government i s yet to crystallize its longer-term vision, its medium term goals for the
power sector are to:

    a) Ensure the availability o freliable, good quality electricity to a wide range of customers, inorder
        to support economic activity;

    b) Expandelectricity service to rural areas, bothto improve the quality of life inthese areas andto
        provide one o f the essential infrastructure inputsrequired to facilitate productive activities,
         especially the establishment of small businesses; and

    c) Establisha regulatory and institutional framework that will facilitate andpromote the financial
        viability of the sector and the introductionof private sector participationto relieve the financial
        burdenonthe state andextendthe sector's managerial capacity.

2.7     The Governmentrecognizes that the development o f an efficient power sector will require a
move away from full government control o fpower system administration towards the establishment o f a
modem institutional andregulatory framework goveming electricity production, transmission,
distribution and salesby efficient independent utilities. This shift will require the establishment o f a
transparent framework andmechanismfor setting electricity tariffs for urbanandruralconsumers. To
set inmotionthis "break with the past", the Government, on May 7,2004, enacteda new Electricity
Proclamation, which it started to develop with the financial support o f the Swedish International
DevelopmentAgency (SIDA). The purpose of the Proclamation i s to promote efficiency, safety,
environmentalprotection andprivate-sector involvement inthe power sector. The Proclamationmakes
provisions for the establishment o f an Electricity Regulatory Committee to enforce the Proclamation and
associatedregulations and directives with respect to the commercial and safety aspectso f the electricity
business. Under this Proclamation, any public or private entity may apply for apermit to generate,
transmit, or distribute electricity providedit has the financial resources to take on these activities and
meet other selected criteria. At the same time the Government also approveda Proclamation for the
establishment o f the Eritrean Electric Corporation, which clarifiedthe legal status of EEAas a corporate
entity, changing its name to the EritreanElectric Corporation (EEC). Furthermore, to facilitate the
transformation o f the sector to meet the requirements o f these Proclamations, the Government has
developed a substantial sector reformprogram. This programwill address current deficiencies inpower
system administration and operations; increase transparency and efficiency o f the legal andregulatory
framework; and prepare the power sector for future private sector participation. As declared inits Letter
o f Sector Policy (Annex 12), the Government will:

         Restructure EEC's financial accounts to realistically reflect the company's revenue earning
         assets and liabilities, make it financially self-sufficient, and to increase fiscal transparency;

         Segment EECsaccounts intorural and urbanbusinesses to clearly separateEEC's commercial
         activities from the non-cost covering rural electrification activities, which EEC will implement
         withGovernment financing;

         Establishtransparent rules for the implementation and financing o frural electrification, as this
         activity is not commercially viable for EEC to undertake from its own funds;

         Conduct a tariff study and establish a sound mechanism for tariff setting;

         Establishoperational and financial performance targets for boththe urbanand ruralbusinesses o f



                                                    - 5 -

         EEC;

     f ) Strengthen EEC to enable it to fulfill its obligations under the new Proclamation, increase
        .efficiency, andmeet its performance targets; and

     g) Establisha Rural Electrification Fundto provide capital subsidies to public, cooperative, and
         private providers for ruralelectrification--from the grid or from stand alone or hybridized
         renewable energy technologies--based on clear criteria for the selection o f electrification sites
         and financing conditions. The proceeds would be collectedthrough a levy on electricity
         consumed, and donor and government contributions.

3. Sector issuesto be addressedbythe project and strategic choices:
The project addressesthe four power sector issues described above. The following sections describe the
strategic choices inthe selection o fproject components to resolve these issues.

Issue 1: Deficiency inthe Power Sector's Legal and Institutional Framework

3.1      Strategic Choices. Given the Government's stronginterest inbreakingwith the past structure o f
the power sector, the choice o f continuing "business as usual" was not an option inthisproject. The
Government's key strategic choice for power sector organization i s to move from a government control o f
all power system operations to a commercially oriented power system where the government's role is
limitedto policymaking and regulation. This change will make EEC independent o f government
authority inoperational matters, allowing the company to make its own investment decisions basedon
sound criteria, and divest itselfo f any non-profitable activities. A related strategic choice would be to
buildonthe Government's commitment and, as part ofthe project, encouragethe private sector to take on
a more visible role inservice provision. This choice would have been feasible ifEritrea hadbeen able to
mobilize private capital for the project. However, given the recent border conflict, the lack o f a
clearly-defined and tested policy andregulatory framework, andthe low level o fprivate investor interest
inAfricanpowerutilities, privateinvestment hasnotbeenforthcomingandisnotexpectedto develop
much inthe near future. Therefore, the project's design focuses on the establishment of a financially
viable electricity sector by: (a) assisting the Government inmaking EEC an independent, financially
viable company; and (b) establishing a legal andregulatory framework for the power sector that promotes
transparency and efficiency and, inthe future, enables private sector participation.

Issue 2: Low Access to Electricity inRuralAreas

3.2      Strategic Choices. The main choices were to supportrural electrificationusingthe past model o f
government mandated access by region or to create a new programdirectedat poverty reduction. Given
the highcost and slow development o frural electricity accessprograms inthe past andthe Government's
break withthe past inits control o f the power sector, IDA andthe Government rejectedthe choice o f
continuingrural electrification accordingto the past model. Instead, the project's access expansion will
transform ruralelectrification inthe country. First, it introduces technologies that lower the costs o f
electricity distribution. Second, it proposes institutional changes that will facilitate the use o f targeted,
one-time capital subsidies to encourage the development o f electricity cooperatives or the establishment
o f privatepower distribution businesses.

Issue 3: Deteriorating Condition of the Asm'ara Distribution System

3.3      Strategic Choice. The rehabilitation o fthe distribution system inAsmara was anecessary



                                                      - 6 -

strategic choice for IDA'Sfirst power sector operationinEritrea due to the priority the Government is
givingto the upgrading o fbasic infrastructure; the extent o f deterioration inthe Asmara system; andthe
lack of funding for rehabilitation from other sources. Not including a component to improve distribution
operations couldpose serious constraints to power system operations andproductivity o fbusinessesthat
needadequate, reliable power. The main choice was whether to focus on rehabilitation work alone or
fundsomeexpansionof the system as well. However, giventhe projectedexpansion o fthe Asmara area
and the efforts o f the Govemment and EECto utilize surplus generating capacity, the inclusion o f system
extension work i s a logical complement to the rehabilitationprogram.

Issue 4: Need for ImprovedManagement of Power System

3.4     Strategic Choices: The inclusion o f a component to buildEEC's institutionalcapacity is a
necessarystrategic choice inresponseto the increase inpower demand expected from economic recovery
and the needto improve the company's financial management inorder for the company to become
financially viable. Iti s also an integralpart o f the program for improvingthe power sector's institutional
framework and the electricity access expansionprogram, which will help increase the use o fpower
system assets that have been underutilized.




                                                          - 7 -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):
A. Asmara Distribution SystemRehabilitation andExpansion (US$34 million, of which an IDA Credit
willfinance US$29million and an IDA Post-Conflict Grant willfinance US$2.4 millionfor technical
assistance)

Thiscomponent will focus onremovingoperatingconstraints onthe distribution systeminthe city,
reducinglosses, and meeting the forecast increase indemand over the next 20 years.

1.1      Investments. The project will finance: (a) the complete replacement o fthe old 5.5-kV
medium-voltage system by a more efficient andmodern 15-kV system; (b) the elimination o f the
old-fashioned and unreliable 127/220-V low-voltage system, replacingit withan efficient 400/230-V
system; and (c) the constructiono f a new 66/15- kV substation at Asmara North, plus
upgradinghehabilitationo f the existing substations at Gejeret and Dendenandminor works at Asmara
East and Belesa substations. Inaddition, the project will finance the undergroundplacemento f the
medium-voltage system inthe old historic city center, where space is at premium, andthe replacement o f
the current, dangerous, open-wire distribution systemsby a safe aerial bunchedcable (ABC). The
project also will finance the replacement of service connections andnew meters for affected consumers.
These investments will significantly increase the network's load carrying capacity and drastically reduce
lossesas a result o fupgrading to the higher operatingvoltage. This upgradingwill help unifyEEC's city
distribution standards, as other cities and the new suburbs o f Asmara are already operating at the new
voltage. The preparation o fthis component i s based onprevious studies by independent consultants,
which were updated duringthe project's preparation.

Technical Assistance. The project will provide training and consulting services to EEC for project
design, management, construction, and operation.

B. Rural Electrification by EEC (US$16.4 million of which anIDApost-conjlict grant willfinance
US$12.4million)

1.2      The rural electrification component will assist the Govemment to increase access to electricity in
underprivilegedrural areas to improve livingconditions and spur economic development. It consists o f
the development of appropriate least cost methodologies for rural electrification inEritrea and using
these standards for the electrification o f the selected villages.

1.3      The component includes for the electrification o f about 28,500 households, agricultural imgation
pumpsandother smallbusinesses, schools, clinics, churches, andmosques, etc. inabout 80 villages
around the four towns o fKeren, Barentu, Dekemhare, and Adi Keihthrough gridextensions. Keren and
Dekemhare are already connected to the transmission grid whereas BarentuandAdi Keihwill be
supplied from existing diesel power plants inthe towns. The capacity o f the diesel plants i s sufficient to
meet the initial needs o f the project and the EEC has plans to add additional capacity as requiredutilizing
existingdiesel units made available fiom other towns that have recently been connected to the
transmission grid.

1.4      Inlinewithruralelectrificationprocedures inEritrea, the villagers provideanup-fi-ont payment
to meet the cost o f the low-voltage reticulation inthe village. The cost depends onthe size and layout o f

project will finance the entire connectioncosts inthe selected villages - to simplify implementation
the village. For example,- the larger and/or the more compact the village the lower the cost. As the




                                                     - 8 -

arrangements -,IDAagreedwith the Government that the payments from the villages will be deposited in
the Rural Electrification Fundto benefit future electrification. This arrangement will ensure consistency
with the financing arrangementinvillages that have beenrecently electrified. An up-front payment will
also increase the villages' ownership o f the project.

1.5      Investments: The projectwill finance: (a) extensions ofthe medium-voltage distribution lines
from the larger towns to the center o fthe selected villages; and (b) distribution transformers, the
low-voltage distribution lines, and service connections.

1.6      TechnicalAssistance: The project will finance training and consulting services to EEC on
project design, management, construction, and operation. An important aspect i s enabling EEC to
smoothly integrate, inits operational and maintenance procedures, the requirements o f the new low-cost
distribution standards that the projectwill introduce, including amixed system o f single phaseandthree
phase distribution.

C. Fundingfor theRuralElectrification Fund (US1.4 million IDApost-conflict grant)

1.7      The Government will establish a Rural Electrification Fundto finance capital subsidies to
qualifying schemes to electrify additional villages, either by EEC, village cooperatives, or private energy
service companies. The project will provide, through an IDA Post-Conflict Grant, the initialresources
for this Fundafter the Government has established it with suitable administrative management
arrangements and has developed clear selection criteria for rural electrification.

D. SectorReform andInstitutional CapacityBuilding (US4.7 million, of which anIDApost-conflict
grant willfinance US$4.5million)

1.8      This component will help the Government implementits power sector reformprogram. It will
support the development of the institutional and regulatory aspects o f the power sector. This support will
include advisory services, studies, and training inorder to: (a) implement the new Electricity
Proclamation establishing a modem legal andregulatory framework for the power sector; (b) create a
suitable regulatory function basedon the framework stipulated inthe Electricity Proclamation; (c)
establish the institutional andregulatory arrangements for ruralelectrification, includingthe Rural
Electrification Fund; (d) set up a suitable tariffsetting policy and mechanism; (e) buildup EEC's
technical andplanning capacity; (0buildinstitutional management capacity for the project's
implementingagencies, MEMandEEC, and for private enterprises andvillage cooperatives interested in
participating inpower distribution; and (g) training and information to entrepreneurs on usingelectricity
for increasedproductivity and income generation and to rural farmers on the costs andbenefits of
shifting to electric irrigationpumps.

1.9      For the development o frural electrification approaches, the project will finance assistance to the
Government, through the MEM,to promote cooperative andprivate sector participation inelectricity
supply. Itwillpromotethis participationthroughtraining andtechnicalassistancefor the development
of business models and operational procedures for rural electricity cooperatives, private energy service
companies, and individual entrepreneurs, to enable them to manage electricity services inrural areas.

1.10     The business models will promote ownership by the beneficiariesandrequire that they be
self-supportingafter constructiono f the distribution system usinga one-time capital subsidy.
Additionally, the project will test an altemative approach o f engaging the private sector inthe
management o frural electricity services, inline with the Government's policy. This will involve training



                                                      - 9 -

o f electrical practitioners inthe villages to do in-house wiring becauseEEC staff will not performthis
service as part o f the project. Potential trainees include the demobilized youth who were engaged inthe
defense o f the country. EEC could also engagethe trainees as agents to distribute and collect electric
bills andconduct minor extensions to new customer sites. They could also widenthe scope oftheir
services by engaginginother energy systemslike distribution o f LPG, kerosene, or renewable energy
technologies. As rural electrification intensifies, these private practitioners coulddevelop into rural
energy service companies.

E.Environmental andSocialManagement (US$0.5million of which andIDA Grant willjnance US4
0.4 million)

1.11     This component will finance the cost o fimplementingthe Environmental andSocial
Management and MonitoringPlan (ESMMP) for the project. The main activities it will finance are: (a)
training for EEC's Project Management Unit,MEM,and the Zoba and Village Administrators; (b)
implementationo f the M&Eactivities; (c) establishment o f a compensation plan for any crops or land
lost due to the construction o fpower lines under the Asmara distribution rehabilitation andrural
electrification components; and (d) environmental audits at the end o f the project. EECwill finance the
compensation plan.




 Asmara distribution rehabilitation and expansion                   34.10           59.6       31.35      62.7
 Ruralelectrification                                               16.42           28.7       12.40      24.8
 RuralElectrificationFund                                             1.41            2.5        1.41      2.8
  Sector reformand institutional capacitybuilding                    4.73             8.3        4.47       8.9
 Environmentalmanagement                                             0.52             0.9        0.37      0.7
                                             Total ProjectCosts     57.18          100.0       50.00     100.0
                                    TotalFinancingReauired          57.18          100.0       50.00     100.0

2. Key policyandinstitutionalreformssupported by the project:
Power Sector Development
2.1      Duringappraisal, the Government agreedwiththe Bankona comprehensive power sectorreform
program(Annex 12). The project will support the implementation o f this program. As already discussed
inSectionB.2 above, the keyreformsfocus onintroducingcommercialpracticesto the urbanpower
supply business, whileproviding a transparent mechanism to support ruralelectrification that is socially
desirable butnot viable commercially.

2.2      UrbanPower Supply. The key reforms include: (a) corporatization o fEEC; (b)restructuringo f
EEC's financial viability; (c) approval o f a new Electricity Proclamationto promote transparency,
efficiency andthe future participation o fthe private sector inthe power supplybusiness; (d)
establishment o f a tariff-setting regime that promotesthe financial viability o f the power supply business;
(e) strengthening of EEC's institutional capacity to enable it to fulfill its obligations under the new
Proclamation; and (0establishment o f efficient arrangements for the economic and safety regulation o f
thepower sector that are separatefromboththe Government's policy function andthe power companies'
business functions.



                                                      - 10-

2.3      Ruralelectrification. The sustainedexpansionofrural electrificationwill require a clear
definitiono fthe institutional and regulatory framework. The design o f this framework will encompass a
number o f activities. The first i s defining what i s considered rural electrification as opposed to
commercially viable urban distribution, i.e., defining the criteria for rural electrification. The second i s
segmenting EEC's financial accounts into urbanandruralbusinesses. The thirdi s establishing the Rural
Electrification Fundto provide transparent capital subsidies for expansion o f access to electricity
supplies. The fourth i s preparing eligibility criteria along with terms and conditions o f financing from
the Rural Electrification Fundand documentingthem inan Operational Manual. The fifth i s creating a
small unit within MEMto prepare indicative rural electrification plans. The sixthconsists o freviewing
specific proposals for electrification projects; providing information and support to private sector and
village cooperatives; and maintaining safety standardsandto give technical and financial advice to
communities operatingtheir own distribution systems. The seventh is allowing community and
privately-owned electricity distribution utilities to charge different tariffs dependingon the source o f
generation and individual customer density characteristics, subject to regulatory review.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The primarybeneficiaries o f the project are the private sector, communities, and individual electricity
consumers inAsmara and inrural areas.

3.1      Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion. The target population consists o f
existing and new electricity consumers inAsmara and its surrounding areas. For the existing consumers,
the project will significantly improve the reliability o f electricity supplybyreducing outages, upgrading
the quality o f the supply (fewer surges and low-voltage events) and maintainingthe safety o f control
equipment inthe distribution system. Itwill also reduce network losses inAsmara from about 18 percent
to about 7 percent by the end o f the project. This will contribute to reducingthe cost o f supply. The
reinforcement and extension o fthe distribution network will allow EEC to add about 14,000 new
industrial, commercial, andhouseholdconsumers to the system (to 2012) andthus contribute to
economic expansion.

3.2      RuralElectrification. The target population for the rural electrification component consists o f
more than 100,000 people and 1,000 small businesseslocated inabout 80 small towns andvillages.
Their access to electricity will meanexpandedproductivity, higher earnings potential, and a better

education, water, street lighting - will deliver indirect benefits to the poorest strata o f the population in
quality o f life. Inaddition to such direct benefits, the electrification o fpublic institutions - health,

the form o f improved services. Also, multiplier effects are likely to occur with the expansion o fthe
economy, such as the creation o f employment opportunities for the poor. The project will support
technical assistanceandtraining to help entrepreneurs increase their productivity with electricity service
andthereby help improve income generation and thus alleviating poverty. Local entrepreneurs will also
benefit from the opportunity to invest inandmanage distribution businesses.

3.3      Sector reform and institutionalstrengthening will help ensure the sustainability o f the above
benefits duringthe lifetime o f the investments and the expansion o fthese benefits through the
identificationo fnew projects.

4. Institutional and implementationarrangements:
ImplementingAgencies

The two implementing agenciesfor the project are EECandMEM.


                                                  - 11-

4.1     =will      implement the Asmara distribution rehabilitation and expansion component and the
rural electrification component, including procurement o f all supply andinstallationequipment and
works. The utility also will implement its own capacity-building activities. The EEC will manage the
implementation o f its components through its Project Management Unit(PMU), headedby a full time
Project Manager. Other key staff include a Technical Advisor anda General Services Advisor. To meet
the needs o f this project, EECwill complement the P M Uwith an Accountant, an Environmental
Coordinator, and a Public Relations Specialist. EEC will recruit a qualified accountant, while the
EnvironmentalCoordinator is a staff member o fthe Ministryo f Land, Water, and Environment, who's
involvement will bepart-time. EEC will assignthe Public Relations Specialist before the project's
implementation begins to handle, inparticular, the interface withelectricity consumers inAsmara. To
the extent possible, the PMUwill utilize existingEEC staff engaged inthe normal day-to-day operations
of the utilitywith the objective o f capacitybuilding.

4.2     The P M Uwill work closely with the engineering consultants, already hiredduringthe project's
preparationperiod. Further, the PMUwill coordinate the implementation of the Asmara component and
to discuss any implementation issues as they arise with the advisory Technical Support Committee, EEC
has established for the project (TORSavailable inproject files). The committee includes officials from
the Asmara Department o f Infrastructure, the Department o fWater, the Department o f Environment, the
Telecommunication Services o f Eritrea, andthe National Museum. The committee will meet at least
semi-annually, or as often as required. Finally, before starting any civilworks that require displacement
o fpeople or compensation for asset loss, EEC will prepare a Resettlement Action Plan inaccordance
withthe guidelines inthe RPFandclear itwith the Bank.

                      OrganizationalStructure of EEC'sProject ManagementUnit

                                             GENERAL MANAGER




                               I                                        I
                               ~




                                         PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT




               TECHNICAL SERVICE                                   GENERAL SERVICE



                       -    ASMARA REHABILITATION                      -   PROCUREMENT
                       -RURAL     ELECTRIFICATION                      -   FINANCE




4.3     MEMwillberesponsible for the implementation ofthe Sector Reformandthe Environmental
Monitoringcomponents. It has assigned a qualified full-time Project Coordinator (PC) who will receive
support fiom   MEM'sexisting accountingandprocurementstaff, andthe institutional consultants it will
hire duringproject implementation. MEMwill establish an advisory Supporting Committee with


                                                     - 12-

members from the Departmento f Environment, the Heads o fthe Economic Department of the respective
Zobas, and EEC's Project Managerto overseethe implementation o f the environmentaland social
mitigation measures inthe rural electrificationcomponent (TORSfor the SupportingCommittee are in
project files). The Supporting Committee will meet at least semi-annually and as often as required to
discuss issues arising from implementation. MEMwill also provide training to Village Administrators
(VAS)to conduct village-level environmental and socialimpact screening andevaluation, mitigation, and
resettlement. The PC will coordinate with Zoba andVillage Administrators inthe project areas to ensure
popular participationthat includesproviding initialpayments for cost-sharing and securing optimum
rightso fway for the network extensions.

4.4     Both EEC andMEM       -through the new Rural Electrification unit - will work closely with the
elected VASinimplementing the ruralcomponent. The VASwill represent their communities, act as a
liaisonsbetweenthe local community and EEC andMEM, and organize popular participation.


                OrganizationalStructureof the Ministry of EnergyandMines (MEM)


                                             I      MINISTER
                                                 Energy and Mines   I
                                                        I                 SECRETARY



                                                                  PLANNING & STATISTICS



                                                                    ADMINISTRATION &
                                                                        FINANCE




                  RESEARCH&        MANAGEMENT &           EXPLORATION&
                    TRAINING        DEVELOPMENT              PROMOTION
                                        DIVISION              DIVISION

                                              MANAGEMENT
                                       H      DEVELOPMENT
                                               PLANNING       1I

                                              AFFAIRS UNIT




                                               -13 -

Accounting, Financial Reporting, andAuditing Arrangements

4.5      IDAhas assessedthe financial management andaccounting systems ofEECandMEM. Both
institutions have accounting systems that allow for the proper recordingo f financial transactions, with
adequatecontrols for preparation and approval o f transactions. Both institutions have centralized
accounting functions and qualified accountants with several years o f experience headthe respective
accountingdepartments. The assessment o f the accounting functions took place under the EEA, before it
became the corporate entity, EEC. However, IDA'Sassessmento f its accounting functions has not
changed. Given the size o f the project, EECwill appoint a qualified accountant to handle all accounting,
financial and reporting requirements o f the project. The accountant will report to the Finance and
Administration Manager. The project file contains the report summarizing the financial management
assessment of the implementingagencies.

4.6      The EEC and the MEMwill maintain accounting records for their respectivecomponents inthe
project andwill ensure appropriate accounting o fthe funds. Each entity will be responsible for designing
andpreparing, on quarterly basis, appropriate Progress Reports, includingFinancialMonitoringReports
(FMRs) reflecting: (a) the statusofimplementationprogress; (b)problemsencountered andcorrective
measures envisaged; and (c) the current cost o f each project component together with estimated costs o f

o fbothEEC and MEM,including the World BankpublicationFinancial Monitoring Reports -
completion. IDA has provided a thoroughpresentationofthe FMRrequirements to the accounting staffs

Guidelinesfor Borrowers.

4.7      BothEEC andMEMwill ensure annual audit ofthe accounting records for their respective
components inthe project by an independent auditor acceptable to IDAusinginternational auditing
standards. The annual audits will be take place inaccordance with the Guidelines: Annual Financial
Reporting and Auditingfor WorldBank-Financed Activities (June 30, 2003). Acceptable accounting
standardsare: (a) InternationalFinancialReporting Standards and International Accounting Standards
(IFRSAAS) issuedbythe InternationalAccounting Standards Board(IASB); or (b) InternationalPublic
Sector Accounting Standards(PSAS), issuedbythe Public Sector Committee o f the International
Federationof Accountants (IFAC-PSC). A broad outline of the expected contents o f the annual financial
statementshave already been agreedupon andhas been confirmed duringnegotiations.

4.8      EECis a continuing entitywith anexistence independent o fthe implementationo fthe operation
to be financedbythe IDA credit and grant. Therefore, the annual financial statements IDArequireswill
be for the entity as awhole, andnotjust for the project. Inthis regard, EECwill submit a full set of
financial statements (balance sheet, income statement, etc.), with additional disclosure (for example, by
way o fnote or supporting schedule or statement) o f sufficient information on sources anduses o f funds
associatedwith the IDA-financed activities.

4.9      MEMwill submitannual financial statementsto reflectall activities for its components inthe
project. Inaddition to the audit reports, the auditors will prepare a management letter givingcomments,
observations, and recommendations for improvements to the accounting records, systems and controls
that they will have examined duringthe course o f the audit. BothEEC andMEMwill sendthe audited
financial statementsto the Bank within six months following the end o fthe fiscal year.

DisbursementArrangements:

4.10     The proposed project is a blendo f credit and grant financing. The Grant category is



                                               -14-

Post-Conflict. The diagrambelow illustrates the expectedflow o ffunds andreportingarrangements. To
ensure that nomixingo fthe proceedso fthe Credit andthose ofthe Grant will occur, the project will
require separateaccountingrecordsandbankaccounts for eachfinancial instrument by each o fthe two
implementingagencies. Thereforetheproject willrequirethree special accounts. EECwill maintain
two accounts one for the Credit andthe other for the Grant, while MEMwill maintain one account for
              -
the grant. All three accountswill be openedinabankacceptableto IDA. Detailed funds flow and
reporting arrangementwillbedevelopedfor the RuralElectrification Fundanddocumentedinan
OperationalManual duringthe initialproject implementation period.




-
                           Flow of Funds
-------------------b Reporting

ProcurementArrangements:

4.11    The EEC andthe MEMwill be separatelyresponsiblefor procurementrelating to their
respectivecomponentsof the project. They will handlethe procurementrequestsaccording to agreed
procurementplans.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:

4.12    The project design summary inAnnex I will guide the monitoring o foutputs andevaluation o f
impacts. The monitoring andevaluation will take place through: (a) quarterlyprogressreports; (b)Bank
supervision missions; (c) project mid-termreview; and(d) M&Ereports byindependentparties. Annex
11discussesthe monitoringandevaluation arrangementsindetail.

4.13    IDAimplementationreview missionswill review progresstwice ayear. A mid-termevaluation
o fthe project will takeplacenolater than24 months after Credit effectivenessinaccordancewith the
terms ofreferenceagreeduponbythe Govemment andIDA. The EECandthe MEMwillprepare a
mid-termreport detailingthe achievementofdevelopmentobjectives andimplementationprogressunder
all project componentsandidentifylngimplementation issues. They will submit this report to the
GovernmentandIDAno later thantwo months prior to the mid-termreview. Duringthe mid-term
review, IDA andthe Governmentwill develop appropriate solutions to the implementation issues
identifiedandifnecessary, willmodifyproject designto meetdevelopmentobjectives. Finally, the EEC
andthe MEMwill transmit aproject implementation completion report, within six months ofproject
closing to IDA.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection:
1.1      The Government o fthe State o fEritrea requested IDA assistanceto improve andexpand the
delivery o f electricity services. The preparationo f the project started in2000, but external
developments, includinga conflict situation interruptedis preparation. However, duringthe past year,
the Government has made a concerted effort to anchor the project ina clear policy andreformframework
for the power sector. It has focused on increasingtransparency and efficiency through the
corporatization o f the power utilityandthe establishment o fmodeminstitutional and regulatory
frameworks for both the urban andthe rural electrification businesses. The project design supports the
Government's approach to power sector issuesthrough the provision o f investment financing and
technical assistance that will benefit not only the urbanpopulation but also the unprivilegedrural
residents. The incorporationo f a power sector reformand institutional capacity-building component in
the designwill help ensure the project's long-term sustainability. Inaddition to selecting a designthat
frames investment financing withinthe context of power sector reform, the project considered the
alternatives discussedbelow.

1.2      Distribution Rehabilitation The initialproject designincluded only the rehabilitation o fthe
old anddilapidated distribution system inthe city o f Asmara. This approachwould have redressedthe
most criticalissues inthe power system, namely the poor quality o f electricity supply and the large
energy lossesthat wasted the country's resources. However, it was rejectedinfavor o f a design that
would allow for the expansion o f supply to foster increasedeconomic growth. Consequently, the
selected designincludes the expansion o f electricity supply infrastructure to selected suburbs o f Asmara.
This choice reflects the recent economic developments inAsmara, where the municipality, with the help
o fUNDP, i s proceedingwith the development o f areas inthe outskirts o f the city for residential and
industrial uses. As a result, the growth inelectricity demand will intensify over the next few years and
analyses indicate that the system will not be able to meet this demand. Already, despite the fact that the
country has excess generation capacity available, it is difficult for EEC to accommodate requests for
electricity supply from new industrial consumers inthese areasbecauseo f the lack o f distribution
infrastructure. There is no engineering alternative to the rehabilitation and expansion needs o f Asmara's
distribution system apart from the choices o f voltage levels, transformer sizes, and conductor types and
sizes. The project design has optimized the mix o f technical and cost efficiency considerations.

1.3      RuralElectrification. Inprinciple, there are several choices for the electrification o frural
areas. Often the choice i s between individualhouseholdsystems (e.g. photovoltaic systems) and grid

based on the judgment that the Government canbest achieve its rural electrification objectives -- social
extensions. This project has selected the gridextension approach as the primarydesign. This choice i s

development andwealth-creation-- through gridextensions. Individual household systems are typically
suitable only for lightingandradio applications andnot for powering electric motors necessaryfor
small-scale processing or manufacturing (i.e., grindinggrain, refigeration, pumping). Therefore, the
systems do not immediately enhance income-generating capacity. The proposed approach focuses on
providing electricity not only for lightingbut also for productive purposes inthe commercial farming
areas and inruralpopulation centers close to larger towns, but not yet connected to the maingrid.
However, incontrast to the "conventional gridextension approach", where a national power utilitywill
expand the service, the selected approach is innovative.

1.4      EEC will implement the first batch o frural electrification projects but later inthe project's
implementationperiod the private sector will participate. The reason for this i s twofold: (a) it was
important to beginthe pipeline o frural electrification programs as quickly as possible, to redressregional



                                                    - 16-

inequalities; and (b) a tested regulatory framework for private sector participation inthese programs i s
not yet inplace. The Government will provide investment financing from the IDAPost-Conflict Grant,
as the project's rural electrification programs do notjustify debt financing. At the same time, the analysis
o f the rural electrification programat appraisal indicatedthat the initial sole operationo f the programby
EECwill not compromise the utility's financial viability inthe mediumterm, incontrast to the pastrural
electrificationprograms as the former EEA. Forecast revenues from the programwill cover its related
forecast operating costs as the demand inthe villages matures.

1.5      To increase the longer-term sustainability o f electrification, the project incorporates assistance
for the promotion o f localbusinesses andvillage cooperatives to become involved inthe operation and
maintenance o f the programs initially andto become the owners o f these and future programs eventually.
This approach i s inline with the framework for electricity cooperatives that the Government put inplace
in2002. However, the Governmenthasnotyet hadthe fundsto providetherequiredtraining and
awareness creation to promotethe program. Moreover, the selected design increases the sustainability
and acceptability o f the programs byrequiring the villages to contribute to their financing. Finally, the
project employs the "grid extension" approach over a distributed village basedgeneration, as the selected
villages are inclose proximityto either the interconnected gridinfrastructure or larger towns with
available generating capacity. This choice, together with the use of low-cost distribution technologies,
minimizes the cost o f supply, makinguse o f the excess generating capacity inthe grid and inthe larger
towns.

1.6      ProjectInstrument. Inthe choice ofthe appropriate project instrument, anAPL was considered
as an alternative instruments to the SIL. Itwas, however, rejectedbecausethe pace and extent o f sector
reform are not yet sufficient tojustify a longer-term program.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoingandplanned).


                Sector Issue                              Project

                                            I                                  Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Eritrea:                                   Emergency Reconstruction                  S               S
                                            Eritrea Ports                             S               S
                                            Health                                    S               S
 Other countries:                           Uganda Energy for Rural                   S               S
                                            Transformation
                                            Mozambique EnergyReform                   S               S
                                            andAccess project
 Other developmentagencies
 SIDA                                       Rural electrification and
                                            substation rehabilitation.
 SIDA                                       TA for power sector reform
 Switzerland and Finland                    Feasibility study on Asmara
                                            distribution network voltage
                                            conversionand rehabilitation.
 EuropeanUnion                              Rehabilitation o f distribution
                                            network inMassawa.




                                                      - 1 7 -

 European Union                             Rehabilitation o f Asmara
                                            Water supply system.
 Kuwait Fund, Saudi Fund, AbuDhabi Hirgigopower plant.
 Fund, OPEC Fund,BADEA
 Italy                                      Massawa-Asmara 132 kV
                                            transmission line.                  I
IPlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U(Unsatisfactory), HI (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedintheprojectdesign:
Lessonsfrom Projects in Eritrea:

3.1      Rehabilitationof the MassawaDistributionSystem. This project, financedbythe European
Union(EU), is similar to the Asmara component, thoughmuch smaller insize and with different
implementation arrangements. International contractors supplied the materials and staff o f the former
EEAwas incharge ofexecutingthe project. Itisnownearingcompletionandits implementation
experience has provideda number o f lessonsthat will help improve implementation o fthe Asmara
component. There are at least three mainlessonsfrom this project. First, inorder to avoid delays there
should notbe a split between supply and installationaspectso f the project. Secondthe former EEA
should have movedmore quickly to reinstate the use o froads and sidewalks disruptedduringexcavation.
Three, EEA shouldhave informed consumers of the precautions neededto prevent appliance failures
after voltage conversion.

3.2      Rehabilitationof AsmaraWater Supply. Although consumers were satisfied withthe
improvement inthe supply o fwater, implementationhadits challenges. According to the stakeholders,
the implementing agency should have coordinated better with other utilities andthe city administration.
It shouldhave speedily cleared streets from debris andwreckage remnants fromthe work crews, and
planned the work better to avoid blockage o froads and traffic jams.

3.3      The design of the Asmara component incorporates the aforementionedlessonsit its design. To
minimize delays, the implementation o f the Asmara distribution component will take place on a supply
and installation basis. Internationalcontractors will be taking responsibility for all project phases o fthe
component's execution. To increase acceptanceandpreparedness, andto avoid the water project's
problems, the former EEAheld extensive consultations with stakeholders inAsmara. Because o f the
nature o frehabilitation, it will be impossible to avoidblockage o f some streets and it will also not be
possible to reinstate broken-up roads and sidewalks immediately. EEC therefore has agreed to planthe
works so that only one section o fthe town will be rehabilitatedat a time. This shouldminimize nuisance
and disruption to inhabitants. Inaddition, EECwill implement an information campaign to ease
consumers'transition to the new voltage level. Itwill also engage a Public Relations Specialist to handle
relations with affectedconsumers.

Globallessons:

3.4      Importanceof SimplifyingDesignandAvoidingImplementationArrangements Too
Complexfor the Borrower. The project will have four well-defined components. The MEMwill
implement the sector reformand the environmental components. EEC will implement the components for
the rehabilitation of the Asmara distribution system and the rural electrification program with the help of
international contractors through a supply and installation arrangement. For the new technology and
institutional arrangements chosen, the project will provide training to EEA, MEM,and the villagers on
installationand operation.



                                                     - 1 8 -

3.5      Need to Advance Procurement to Minimize Project Delays. Thislesson isparticularly
important as the project will be the first Bank operation inEritrea's electricity sector. To take account o f
this lesson, EEC has finalized the draft procurement documents for the project's major components
before the project is presentedto the Board for approval.

3.6      Importance of Consultingwith Beneficiaries and Other Stakeholders to Ensure a Viable
Project Design. As discussed insections 5 and 6, EEC andMEMhave consulted widely on the design
o f the project.

3.7      Need for RuralElectrificationProjects to Meet Basic Financial, Technical, and
Organizational Criteria. The project incorporates these key criteria, which are to: (a) charge rightprice
buthelpwithup-front costs; (b) provide subsidiesthat encourage, not destroy business incentives; (c)
have clear specifications for selecting villages to participate inthe project; (d) reduce electrification costs
bypromotinglow-cost equipment andtechnical specifications; and(e) involvepotentialelectricity
customers and suppliers inproject design rather than impose top-down master plans.

4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership
4.1      A dedicated managementteam fromthe former EEAhasbeenworking with the Bankduring
identification andpreparationo fthe project. Although the project was inabeyance for some time for
external factors, EEAmade a major effort to speedup the preparation o f the project by working overtime
to clear the accumulated accountingtransactions and engagingyoung engineers to helpwith data
gathering necessary for the final project design.

4.2      MEMhas shownkeenainterest inthe project's preparatorywork. Itwas incharge ofthe
preparationo f the Environmentaland SocialAssessment and the Resettlement Policy Framework and did
an excellent job.

4.3      The Government has identifiedthe project as one o f its priorities inits development strategy. It
has also approved a new Electricity Proclamationand corporatized EEC inadvance o fproject
implementation.

5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
5.1      The Bank i s a key development partner for Eritrea and the Government continues to recognize
the importance o f the Bank's program inreconstruction, rehabilitation, and infrastructure. The Bank's
value addedwill be inthe following areas:

5.2      Asmara Distribution System Rehabilitation. The project will include the introduction o fnew
technology for Eritrea, butproven inother countries, that i s criticalto reducingthe cost o f infrastructure
andthe preservation of Asmara's cultural heritage. Inaddition, the Bank's knowledgeo fthe sector will
help to facilitate optimal use o f investment resources for the sector and Bankparticipation will increase
attentionto environmentalissues. Finally, IDA is the only available concessionary financing source for
thisrehabilitation.

5.3      Rural Electrification. The project will help to introduce new technology to Eritrea, butproven
inother countries, that iscritical to reducingthe cost ofinfrastructureinruralareas. Italso will support
implementationofproper environmental and social safeguards and ensure that the integration o f
increased electricity access with the provision o f training to gain the maximumbenefits from the



                                                     - 19-

availability o freliable electricity service as quickly as possible. The Bank support for rural
electrification will be grant financing, which will increase the program's affordability and this contributes
to the economic and social development o f this post-conflict country. Itwill also support the
Government's efforts to achieve povertyreductiontargets andmeet the relatedMillenniumDevelopment
Goals (MDG). Given the Bank's experience and expertise inrural electrification, it i s ina strong position
to assistEritrea infinding alternative institutional arrangements that promisebetter sustainability o f
results than the traditional public utilityapproach.

5.4      Sector andInstitutionalReform. The Bank's broad experience inother countries offers a
comparative advantage ingiving sound policy advice to the Government indesigningan improvedpower
sector development framework for Eritrea and developing a new approach to the expansion o f electricity
access inrural areas. Furthermore, the Bank's financial andcoordinatingresources will help the
Government to advance sector and institutional reforms initiatedwith bilateral support.




                                                      - 20 -

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailedassessmentsareinthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$12.3 million; ERR= 18.3 % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0Other(specify)

Asmara DistributionRehabilitationandExpansionComponent:

Least-CostDevelopmentFindings

1.1      The Feasibility Study for the rehabilitationo f the Asmara distribution system identified the
proposedproject as the least-cost alternative to reinforce and expand power supply inAsmara andits
vicinity. The Study concludedthat there are no other technically possible alternatives for the proposed
investments. The appraisal mission confirmed that the Asmara distribution component i s the least-cost
option for meetingthe forecast demand and i sjustified for financing.

1.2      The final project design considered a number o f options for the supply o fthe city inthe future to
optimize the designandcost o f the project. These include the establishment o f a new 66/15-kV
substation inan undevelopedarea north o f the city instead o f upgradingthe old Asmara Center substation
inthe middleofthe city. This new substation isthe least-cost optionfor two reasons. First,itwouldbe
difficult and costly to upgrade the old substation. This station i s locatedinthe center o f city with no
room for expansion. The secondreason i s that the new substation will result inshorter medium-voltage
feeder lengths and therefore lower energy losses.

1.3      Inthe southernpartofthe city, the projectconsidered severaldesignoptions, including supplyto
areas scheduled for development bythe Asmara municipality. The least-cost design includes new
66/15-kV substations andmedium-voltagelines for the supply o f development areaswhere building
constructionhas already started or where designs are at an advanced stage. There are other areas where
development is definitely plannedbutwhere the starting date for the construction o f buildingsi s still
uncertain. For these areas, the project will providenew 66/15-kV substations butno medium-voltage
network. EECwill install the networkslater when the buildingconstruction starts.

 1.4     For distribution line rehabilitation, the project will usebothundergroundcable and aerial
bunched cable (ABC) for the medium-voltagelines and ABC for all low-voltage lines. Underground
cable is more expensive than the ABC design. However, inaddition to cost, the project's design has
taken into account a number of other factors including architectural considerations. For the
medium-voltage lines inAsmara's historic city center, the project supports the Government's planto
replace all overhead power lines with undergroundcable inorder to preserve the architectural integrity o f
this center. Inother areas of the city, the project will useABC. For the low-voltage lines, the project
will replace all open-wire overhead lines inthe city with ABC. ABC isthe optimal solution, taking
account o f cost, safety, visual considerations, and efficient use o f space. Another advantage i s that ABC
uses a concentric design that makes it difficult to make an illegal connection.

EconomicBenefitsandEconomicInternalRateofReturn(EIRR)

 1.5     The estimate ofthe Economic Internal rate o fReturn (EIRR)is 18.3 percent andjustifies the
investments. A quantitative riskanalysis inAnnex 4 confirms that project economics are robust the    -
probability of the EIRRexceeding 12percent i s 94 percent.



                                                     -21 -

1.6       The Asmara distributionrehabilitationand expansion component provides a number o fbenefits.
First, it will lower he1andoperating costs due to the substantial lossreductionexpected. The
investments should reduce total losses inthe Asmara system from 18percent at present to about 7
percent on completion o f the project. Second, the component will provide customers with better service
due to improvements involtage levels, supply capacity, and systemreliability. These supply
improvements are likely to encouragethe expansion o f industries and large commercial establishments
that require high-quality, dependablepower supply. Third, it will allow EEC to meet the forecast
demand inthe Asmara area for the next 20 years without further major distribution system investment.
The incremental demand will come mainly from new commercial and industrial establishments andnew
residents, specifically returningEritreans, inthe development areas plannedinthe outskirts o f Asmara.
Fourth, it will utilize the large spare capacity at Hirgigopower plant, which shouldmeet generating
capacity requirements through 2012.

RuralElectrificationComponent:

Scopeof Access

1.7       The project will electrify about 28,500 households, agriculture and other small businesses,
schools, clinics, churches, andmosques through gndextensions. Itwill cover about 80 villages around
the four major towns o f Keren, Barentu, Dekemhare and Adi Keih. Table E.1.1indicates the distribution
of the consumers inthe four areas.

          Table E.l.l PlannedRuralElectrificationbyArea and Service Category

             Area               Domestic        Public      Commercial      Industry    Irrigation   Total

            Keren                     9459              48           156             74         68       9805
           Barentu                    3997              19             97            27         89       4229
          Dekemhare                   8127              12             96            29        433       8697
          Adi Keih                    6964              20             87            14         55       7140

            Total                    28547              99           436           144         645     29871

Least-Cost Development Findings

1.8       Rural electrification through grid extensions is the least-cost method o f supplyingthe identified
villages. The close proximity o f the selected villages to existing loadcenters reduces the length and thus
the cost o f medium-voltage linesrequired. Also, the heavy clusteringo fvillages allows for shorter
low-voltage supply lines, making for further cost savings. Given cost savings possible due to logistics
and other factors, alternative systems, such as individual solar photovoltaic systems (PV) and
village-based windapplications would have difficulty competingwith the proposed gridextension. Also,
solar PV systemswould not provide power for electric motors and would therefore not contribute to
income-generating activities the grid connectionwill make possible, such as irrigation and smallbusiness
development.

1.9       EEC, with the assistance fiom Zoba and Village Administrators, selected the villages to be
electrified based on: (a) proximity o f the site to an existing electrified area; (b) number o fpotential
residential and commercial consumers interested ina gridconnection; (c) socio-economic profile and
economic development potential, especially the likelihoodo f supporting the development o fboth
agricultural and non-farmbasedbusinesses that expandincome-generating activities for the inhabitants.



                                                  - 22 -

1.10     The project considered alternative designs for rural electrification systems and adopted the
least-cost alternative taking into account the forecast demand and the nature o f the load. Inareas where it
i s suitable, the project has adopted a low-cost single-phase design for distribution lines. This design
reduces capital costs since there is only one conductor and the support structures that carry that
conductor can be lighter. Singlephase design i s suitable for those areas with light domestic loads and
where there i s no significant commercial or irrigation pumpingload, which would require three-phase
motors. The particular single phase design the project has adopted for these areas i s an innovative
single-wire earth return (SWER) system, which also reducesdistribution losses andthus the cost o f
supply. Inareas where the forecast expects significant development o firrigation pumpingload, the
project uses three-phase design.

Economic Benefits andEIRR

1.11     There is little argument that the availability of electricity has at least the potential for improving
the quality o f life and increasing economic activity. The access o frural areas to electricity will allow
villages to benefit from the use of modernequipment and services that will have a number o fbenefits.
These include: (a) improvedbusiness and farmproductivity; (b) facilitation o f time-consuming
householdtasks, which will help improve the situation of women inthe villages; and (c) abetter quality
of lighting,which i s conducive to learning activities. However, measuring the benefits o frural
electrification inmonetaryterms is not always straightforward. The analysis o fbenefits for this project
takes account o fthe findings ina study for India, entitled TheBenefits of Rural Electrification in India:
Implicationsfor Education, Household Lighting, and Irrigation by Douglas F. Barnes, Kevin B.
Fitzgerald, and HenryM.Peskin(July, 2002), which provides a good overview o fmethodology.

1.12      The benefits o f the ruralelectrification component include the incremental electricity demand
served inthe selectedvillages, bothresidential and commercial, and cost savings from substitutinggrid
electricity for small diesel generators. For households, the value o fbenefits will be the cost savings from
substitutingelectric lightingfor kerosene lampsplusthe estimated "consumer surplus". For industrial
consumers, the value o f the benefitsi s based on the cost savings that result from substitutinggrid-based
electricity for small diesel generators andthe switch from diesel-based irrigationpumpsto electric
pumps. The estimated ERRbasedonthese benefits andthe costs ofelectrification is 13percent. This
rate is higher than the hurdle rate o f 12percent. Thus, the component i sjustified for financing.

 1.13     While the EIRRis sufficient tojustify the rural electrification component, it may, however,
underestimate the component's true benefits. For example, it does not include complementary benefits,
such as those relatedto the increased income and education levels that are likely to result from
electrification. The findings o f Barnes, Fitzgerald, andPeskin suggest that electricity enhancesthe
financial returns to education, particularly inhouseholds with moderate to higher levels o f education.
Also, they suggestthat the availability o f electricity encouragesfarmers that do not use any irrigation
technology to adopt electric irrigation pumping,which is likely to increase net farm-based income.

 1.14     A key issue inthe economic analysis o fthe ruralelectrification componentwas the ability of
households to afford electricity andthe related connectivity rates likely to result from the villages
included inthe project. The experience from Eritrea's first generation access expansionprogram
indicates that connection rates increase gradually andvary substantially. About six years after the
extension o f the gridto selectedvillages, these rates ranged from 45 percent to 87 percent. Furthermore,
the experience indicatedlow average consumption levels. Monthly expenditure was aroundNfa 50-75,
equivalent to usingabout 30-50 kwh,which implies the use o f electricity for lighting andradio. Inthe



                                                    - 23 -

project areas, households currently spendbetweenNfa 18-141per month on various energy sources,
includingfirewood, paraffin, andbatteries.

1.15     Taking account o f these findings, load forecastsresultedfi-om detailed field surveys ineach o f
the 80 villages includedinthe project. EECs Consultants (Africon Ltd) conducted these surveys, which
identified the numbersof households; existing commercialenterprises (shops, restaurants, hotels); small
industries (bakeries, grindingmills, workshops); and diesel irrigation pumps. Inone area, Dekemhare,
the potential electricity demand for irrigation pumpingis large with over 400 existing diesel pumps.
Duringappraisal, the Bankreviewedthe loadforecastsfor eachofthe areasand, after someadjustments,
found them to be a reasonablebasis for the project.

1.16     The economic analysis also took into consideration the socioeconomic survey that the Ministry
of Energy and Mines conducted, which served as the basis for the load forecast inthe ruralareas for the
project (AsmaraPower Distribution and Rural ElectriJcation Project: Environmental and Social
Assessment Report, including Environmental and SocialManagement andMonitoring Plan, January
2004). According to the survey, households are able to affordNfa45 per monthfor basic lightingand a
small radio. It also showed that 96 percent o frespondents indicatedthey couldafford the cost o f
electrification. Furthermore, to enhance affordability, EEChas agreedto allow householders to pay the
installation costs over two years so that they can take advantageo ftwo harvests.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$-4.5 million; FRR=9.7 % (see Annex 4)

2.1      The project calculatedthe above financial rate ofreturn (FRR) on the Asmara distribution
rehabilitation and expansion component. For the ruralelectrification component as a whole, the
estimates o f the NPV andFRR are -1.5 millionUS$ (@ 12 % discount rate) and 7.4 percent respectively.
The FRR for this component varies significantly from one village to another. For example, the villages
with isolatedgeneration plants are the least financially viable with the present levelo fgeneration cost.
However, consideringthe aggregate financial picture for all four rural electrification areas together,
EEC's forecast revenues from maturing consumptionwill cover its forecast fuel and operating costs.


NPVs- onthe basis o feconomic costs andbenefits - arepositive, the project isjustified for financing.
2.2      The Government is mindfulthat the financial NPVsare negative. However, since the economic


project will help reduce losses and improve the operating efficiency o f generating plant - botho f which
Withthis inmind, the project designpromotesimprovedviability over time. Inthe urbanareas, the

will contributeto increasedviability o fpower sector operations (discussed below). Inthe ruralareas, the
low NPV results from the conservative assumptions on connectionrates inthe early years and the
consumers' initialconsumptionlevels. The project includesmitigationsteps to improve the component's
financial viability. It will conduct training and awarenesscampaigns to promote increaseduse o f
electricity for productive purposes. This wouldresult inhigher consumption levels and, thus, increased
revenue for EEC.

KeyFactorsinAchieving the FinancialViability of the Sector

2.3      EEC hasbeenoperating at a loss for a variety o freasons, includingthe negative impact o f the
conflict situation on the economy and electricity demand as well as financial management problems and
an increasing proportion o f low volume ruralconsumers inits customer base. A key factor constraint to
financial viability i s EEC's significant number o f assets on its books that do not generaterevenue, the
cost o f whichthe company cannot pass onto consumers. As a result, there is an urgent needto



                                                 - 24 -

restructure EEC's entire financial balance sheet as well as its organizationalframework. However, the
implementation ofthe reforms inthese areas included inthis project, will take time and EEC i s not likely
to show positive financial results until2006. For EECthe achievement o f financial viability means that
the company will have the capacity to meet its on-schedule payment o fbothits operating expensesand
its financial debts. Inorder to meet this objective, EECneedsto find ways o f improving its financial
situation without requiring large increasesintariffs, which already are quite high. Given this constraint,
EEC andthe Governmentwillneedto: (a) reduce operating coststhrough increasedefficiency; (b)
strengthen financial managementcapacity; (c) set up an effective financial management system to
monitorprogress; (d) restructure EEC's financial debt causedbypast Government investment decisions
that with today's demand growth levels are non-optimal; (e) establish policies andprocedures for
electricity tariffadjustments annually inorder to reachEEC's plannedfinancial results while at the same
time ensure that affordable electricity i s available to support economic expansion; and (f) separate
commercially-oriented urbanbusiness from subsidized rural electrification, with clear rules for financing
arrangements. The project supports these key strategic elements.

2.4      The project will assist inreducing EEC's operatingcosts through the reductioninlosses andthe
more efficient use o f generating plant. Also, it will enhance the company's financial management
capacity through the introduction o f amanagement information system. Inaddition to these operational
improvements, a key factor inimproving EEC's future financial situation is to adequately reflect the
company's assets and liabilities on the basis o f their utilization. Therefore, the Government restructured
EEC's financial accounts inMay 2004. Since EECis utilizing only 30 percent o fthe Hirgigo power
plant, govemment will take on 70 percent of the plant's cost fromEEC's balance sheet for the periodthat
EECwillnot be usingthat portion o fthe plant. As power demand grows and EECbegins to use
additional plant capacity, the Government will retum appropriate portions o f the assets to EEC.

2.5      Furthermore, the Government's power sector policyprovides for capital subsidies for socially
beneficial rural electrification while the commercial segmentso f the power market shall be
cost-covering. To this end, the Government is planning to establish a specific financing mechanism (RE
Fund) for ruralelectrification and allow transparent budgettransfers for the electrificationofareasthat
are not financially viable for EEC. The company also will separate its accounts into urbanandrural
markets inorder to monitor the company's performance ineach market.

Projected FinancialOutlook

2.6      Table E.2.1 shows demand growth projections and the related financial performance o f EEC.
Basedonthe demand projections, EEC will increase its utilizationo fthe Hirgigo Plant to about 40
percent inFY2008. The Govemment, accordingto the financial restructuring plan, would thus retum 10
percento fHirgigo assets and liabilities to EEC's balance sheet duringthat period. Inthe following
years, EECwill be able to generateenough resources from its operation to annually include an additional
10percent o fHirgigocosts inits balance sheet. The Government would onlend the Hirgigo loans to
EEConthe loans' original terms.

2.7      As Table E.2.1 indicates the restructuring o fEEC's assets and liabilities inMay2004, combined
withefficiency improvements andadequatetariff adjustments, will significantly improvethe company's
financial performance. The projections show that EECwill start makingan operating profit from FY
2004 onwards andbeginninginFY2006, itwill start makingnet profits. The company's equity will
become positive from FY 2008 onward and its debt to equity ratio will improve slowly from FY 2008
onwards. EEC also will be able to maintain a sound debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) o f 1.3 or higher
from FY 2006 onwards.




                                                  - 2 5 -

    For theYear EndedDecember 31 2003          2004     2005     2006     2007    2008    2009    2010

    IncreaseinSales Growth (%)         6%       4%      4%       7%       7%       8%      8%      7%

    AvgBillingRate(NFA/kWh)            1.50     1.65    1.98     2.27     2.55    2.88    3.24    3.65
    IncreaseinBillingRate(%)           25%      10%     20%      15%      13%     13%     13%      13%

    OperatingIncome(MillNFA)         (24.39)    4.04    54.12   113.59   181.65   252.19  334.29  432.72
    NetIncome(MillNFA)               (95.15)  (313.84) (21.86)   9.95    41.74    56.46   78.47   113.28

                                                                                                I
    RetumonEquity(%)                  -52% -evEquity -ev Equity-evEquity-evEquity 325%    214%    161%
    RetumonAssets(%)                  -3.9%   -86.3%   -3.4%     1.1%     3.8%    3.3%    3.5%    4.1%
    OperatingRatio                     1.07     0.99    0.89     0.82     0.76    0.72    0.69     0.67


    JCurrentRatio                  I 0.67 I     0.76


    DebtServiceCoverageRatio           0.32     0.67  I 1.10     1.36     1.86     1.74    1.83    1.84
    SelfFinancingRatio (%)         II -evSF II  98%   I-evSF  II  6%   II 21%   1I21%   II46%   II 59%


ExpectedTariff Impact

2.8     The projections inTable E.2.1 assume that the average tariffwill increase by 10percent in2004
and by 20 percent in2005. The rise inthe tariff levelduringthe first two years o f the project i s
necessaryto keep up with the increasingoperational costs andto do good for past losses. Additional
adjustments will be requiredto take account o f changes ininternational oil prices and foreign currency
exchangerates. Due to the recentprice escalation o f petroleumproducts inthe world market, the
Govemment, on June 2,2004, increasedthe average tariff by about 16percent. Beyond2005, increases
of about 13-15percent per year will be necessaryto keep the tariffinline with local inflation; however,
the realtariff will remain the same andthere will be no additional burdenonthe consumer. Furthermore,
the Government has defined the long-termtariffpolicy objectives inits Electricity Proclamationand
Letter of Sector Policy. Inthis context it will conduct a tariffstudy to define the cost o f supply andthe
resultingrequiredtarifflevels for different consumer groups. This will provide the basis on which the
Government will define sound price setting mechanisms for urban andrural areas. The expected
completiondate for this study is mid-2005.

On-lendingTerms

2.9      The Government will on-lend the IDA Credit o fUS$29 million to EEC, andpass on about US$
17millionofthe IDApost-conflict Grant to EEC. The Credit will cover the IDA-financed portion o fthe
Asmara distributionrehabilitation. The Grant will cover the costs of: the rural electrification
component, technical assistancefor project design and supervision; and capacity-building for EEC.

2.10    Theprocesso fEEC's financial restructuringincluded areviewofthe on-lending terms for the
IDACredit basedonthe need to progressivelycommercialize EEC's finances so that the company will
meet its revenue requirements for debt servicing within a reasonable time frame. The annual interest rate
will be 3.5 percent with a total term o f20 years, o fwhich 5 years, corresponding to the construction
period, will be the grace period. The interest duringthe construction (grace) period will be capitalized.
These terms would enable EEC to gradually become a financially viable corporation without
unreasonably hightariff increases that would reduce the affordability o f electricity and constrain



                                               - 26 -

development outcomes. The Government will passthe Grant portion ofthe financing on to EEC. EEC
would bear the foreign exchange riskon the on-lent Credit and Grant amounts. The on-lending terms and
the Grantpassthrough are consistent withpower project financing inother developingandlow-income
countries.

Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact ofthe components that the IDA Credit will finance i s positive. The netpresent value
ofthe fiscal revenue accruingto the Government is US$26.9 million (Annex 4).

3. Technical:

3.1      There are no major technical issues. The project's designi s based on widely used and
internationally accepted technical standards. However, some of the final designs differ fiom EEC's
existingpractice because they employ technical standards focused on lowering capital costs and thereby
reducingthe final cost o f electricity to ruralconsumers. EEC's current distribution standards for rural
electrification specify a three-phase distribution design. This design i s expensive for rural areas with low
demands. EEC'sconsultants have optimized the development plans for the rural component by
examining various alternative design options (e.g. single-phase MV, SWERetc.). The project will
provide training to EEC staff onthe operation andmaintenance o f these low-cost designs.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
4.1.1    The executing agencies are: the EritreanElectric Corporation (EEC) and the Ministry o f Energy
and Mines (MEM). See Section C.4.
4.2 Project management:
 4.2.1 The project's implementation arrangements are clear andhave been agreeduponby IDA, the
 Borrower, andthe implementing agencies.

 4.2.2 EEC's Project Management Unit(PMU), headedby a full-time ProjectManager, will implement
 the Asmara component, the rural electrification component andthe EEC's capacity-building portion of
 the Sector Reformcomponent. EEC has experience inimplementing other similar projects. These
 include the EU-financed Massawa Distribution Rehabilitation Project, the rehabilitation o f the Asmara
 network's peripheral areas, and several village electrification projects, which ithas managedwell. This
 will be its first major World Bankfinanced project. EEChasbeenclosely involved duringthe project's
 preparationandhas shown tremendous commitment to the project.

 4.2.3   The MEMhas assigned the duties o f the Project Coordinator to the Director o f the Energy
 Management andPlanningDivisionof the Department o f Energy. The MEMwill manage the Sector
 Reform and the Institutional CapacityBuildingand the Environmental Management components o f the
 project. The project will provide the PC and other MEMstaffwithrequiredtraining inprocurement
 andproject management. MEMhas experience with donor-fimded projects andhas satisfactory
 procurement and financial managementprocedures. This will be their first World Bank- financed
 project and MEMhas shown great interest on its role inthe project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
 4.3.1 There areno major procurement issues. A pre-appraisal mission completeda procurement



                                                   - 27 -

capacity assessment, which notedthat the project's procurement arrangementswere o f average
complexity. Persons familiar with IDAprocedures will managethe procurement for all project
components. However, the strengthening o f the procurement planningprocess through external
guidance andtraining will be a key to facilitating effective implementationo f all project components.
4.4 Financial management issues:
4.4.1 The Bank hasreviewedthe financial management arrangementsfor bothEEC and MEMon
 several occasions starting inJune/July 2001 and found them satisfactory overall. The most recent
 financial management assessmenttook place inApril 2004 and followed previous assessmentsin
February 2004, and October 2003. Annex 6 (B)provides a detailed assessment o fthe financial
management arrangements for the project. EEC will implement the bulko fthe activities under the
project. The company has madeprogress infinancial management and has addresseda number o f
 issuesthe Bankhadidentified inorder to meet the Bank's minimumrequirements. EEC has provided
the Bankwith copies of its audited financial statements for the years ending inDecember 31,2001and
December 31,2002. Inthe meantime, EEC continues to make progress incompleting the draft financial
 statements for the year endingDecember 31,2003 and expects them to be ready for submissionto the
 extemal auditors inMay 2004. The recruitment o f additional staff, however, has not progressed at the
 same pace. EEC continues to face difficulties filling key identified positions. Annex 6 (B) discusses
 the status o fthe agreed actionplan. Insupport o f management improvements, the project will finance
 financial management training and updating EEC's management information system.
5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMPpreparation(including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
 5.1.1 The Borrower has completed the Environmental and Social Assessment infull compliance with
 the relevant Eritrean andWorld Bank standards. The report consists of two volumes. One i s the
 Environment and Social Assessment (ESA) Report, which includes the Environmental and Social
 Management andMonitoringPlan (ESMMF). The other i s the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).
 IncompliancewiththePelosiamendment, ASPENapprovedalldocumentswhichweredisclosedinthe
 Infoshop, as well as inEritrea, prior to appraisal.

 5.1.2 The MEMestablished a multi-disciplinary Task Team to prepare the ESA report inFebruary
 2003. Public consultations commenced inMarch2003. The socio-economic assessmentwas tendered
 to localconsultants and the successhl bidder started fieldwork inMay 2003. The mainthrust o f the
 fieldwork was to obtain a full understanding o f the socio-economic environment o f the project areas.
 The Task Team examined all aspectso f the physical andbiological environment indetail to establish
 pre-project conditions. At the same time it evaluated the degree o f impact, assessedthe designand
 planned for the implementation and monitoring o fmitigationmeasures. The Department o f Geography
 o fthe University o f Asmara was largely responsible for compiling the sections relating to the physical
 and biological environment. The detailed ESA investigations took place inJune/July o f 2003. The
 Borrower incorporatedthe recommendations from a stakeholders' workshop, which discussed boththe
 ESA findings andthe mitigationmeasures, into the report; specifically, into the ESMMP (Chapter 9 o f
 the ESAreport).




                                               - 28 -

                                         Significant environmental issues:

                             Environmental impacts                                I    Rating of impacts

                                                                                  I
Excavationo f underaound cables onurbantraffic                                    I         Moderate
Denial o for restrictive access to economic resources, land, fodder, property,              Moderate
buildings, roadside trees, etc
Private land, garden requirement for transformers                                              Low
Slow backfilling o f excavated surface                                                         High
Dustanddirt                                                                                 Moderate
Damage to other underground systems                                                            L o w
Erection o foverhead ABC cables                                                                Low
The cutting of trees andbranches                                                               Low


5.2 What are the main features o fthe EMP and are they adequate?
   5.2.1 The ESA contains an excellent analysis o fthe potentialpositive andnegative impacts of the
   urban andrural components. Itresulted from extensive consultations with stakeholders and identified
   the following impacts and mitigationmeasures.

           Asmara Component:

~~                      Negative Impacts                                      Mitigation Measure
  Insure that all areas whch require mitigationmeasures are Detailed engineering design
r identified
  Inadvertentdisruption o fwater, sewer and                   Use existing maps o fburiedwater supply and
   elecom lines.                                              sewerage andtelecom cables; produce GIS in
                                                              collaboration with DeDt. o f Infrastructure and
                                                              according to its regulations
  Interferenceo f electric and telecom cables                 Use perpendicular crossings with enhanced
                                                              insulation
  MVandLVspecializationissues                                 Arrange different construction crews for MV and
                                                              LV

           RuralComponent:

]NegativeImnacts                                            ]MitieationMeasure
  Vegetation damage, habitat loss and invasion by exotic     Utilize appropriate cleaning techniques
  species along right of way, access roads andaround         Maintainnative groundcover beneathlines
  substations                                                Replant disturbed sites
                                                             M&ge     right o fways to maximum wild life benefits
  Habitat fragmentation or distribution                      Select righto f ways to avoid important natural areas
                                                            Maintainnative vegetation beneathlines
  Run-offand sediment                                        Avoid water bodies, flood plains andwetlands
                                                             Designdrainage ditches to avoid affecting nearby
                                                             lands
 The cutting o ftrees andbranches                            Ifunavoidable. minimize


 5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                        Date of receipt o f final draft: 10February, 2004



                                                    - 29 -

5.3.1    Rationale for category rating: The project has received a Category Brating since there are
some adverse environmental impacts from constructionactivities. There i s also the potential for minimal
resettlement impacts largely inthe form of temporary land allocation for some civilworks. However, the
ESA has analyzedthese impacts thoroughly andhas addressedthem inthe ESMMP andRPF. The
design o f institutional arrangementsfor the rural component will take into account environmental
considerations throughout selection, planning, constructionand operation. They will also ensure the
expected social benefits bymonitoringthe impacts on identified sub-groups, such as the ruralpoor and
others on whom the project i s likely to have an impact. Environmental and social considerations as well
as impact mitigation planning will be an integralpart o f feasibility and technical studies for any new
infrastructure that the project constructs.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consultedat the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmentalimpacts andproposedenvironmentmanagement plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultationthat were used and which groups were consulted?

 5.4.1 Government: All central government ministries, Asmara city administration, Zoba
 representatives for the four project areas, andVillage Administrators inthe project areas participated in
 preparingthe ESA, either through public consultations or specific workshops.

 5.4.2 Civil society: Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) participatedinthe workshop to review
 the draft ESA.

 5.4.3 Private sector: Representatives of rural enterprises, the Association o fHorticultural Farmers,
 the Asmara Chamber o f Commerce, the Association o f EritreanEngineersandArchitects, and the
 Association o f Electrical Contractors participatedinthe ESAworkshop.

 5.4.4 Environmental and educationalagencies: The Department o f Environment, University o f
 Asmara, and the NationalMuseumwere involved inthe preparation o f the ESA.

 5.4.5 Donors: The Govemment has consultedwith all donors active inthe energy sector.

 5.4.6 Electricity Consumers: Electricity consumers - commercial and household - from Asmara and
 the villages to be electrified participatedinthe project by contributing to a detailed survey report on
 their perceptions o f the project.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o f the EMP?
 5.5.1 MEMwith the help o f the SupportingCommittee, which includes representatives o f the
 Departmento f Environment, will perform an enforcement monitoring role. Itwill also receive support
 from the PMU, which will self-monitor withaparticular focus on the cumulative impacts o fthe
 constructionprogramo fbothproject components, inorder to ensure the effectiveness o f individual
 mitigation measures at the cumulative andnational levels. Monitoringactivities bythe P M Uwill be
 continuousbutMEMwill exercise its monitoring role on a quarterly basis. The arrangements for
 monitoring are inline with the overall monitoring and evaluation plan for the project.

 5.5.2 The ESA has set the condition for evaluatingthe project's success, which is the maintenance or
 improvement o f the pre-project environmental state o fnaturalresources, bio-diversity, and flora and
 fauna.




                                               - 3 0 -

The objectives for monitoring are two-fold:

    a) Alert project authorities andto provide timely informationabout the success or otherwise o f the
         ESAprocess outlinedinthe ESMMPinsuchamanner that changesto the designcanbe made if
         required.

    b) Make a final evaluation to determine whether the project's mitigation measureshavebeen
         successful ineither restoringor improving onthe environmental conditions before the project, or
         alternatively, ifthe conditions are worst than before.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
 6.1.1 The project will contribute significantly to social development inunderprivilegedrural areasby
makingelectricity available to more than 25,000 households either directly or indirectly. However, the
 socioeconomic survey that the Borrower conducted to informthe beneficiaries o f the project's design
 highlighted some uncertainty about rural households' ability to meet the costs o f electricity. The
 survey's objectives were to: (a) involve the communities inthe identification o f localpriorities and
needs; (b) evaluate the possibility for different social groups to meet the costs associated with electric
power supply; and (c) assesshow to target rural low-income households. It interviewed 50 households
 (30 semi-urban and 20 village dwellings) ineach o f the four project areas. The survey stratified the
 sample to ensure the representation o f particularly vulnerable groups such as female heads of
 households, returnees and demobilized fighters.

 6.1.2 The results show clearly that most of the people inthe project areas are eager to get electricity
 service and 100 percent o f the respondents expect electrification to change the quality o f their life
 completelybyreviving economic development (e.g. production expansion, new business, increase
 employee numbers). The majority o f the households planto use electricity solely for lightingand
 entertainment. However, a significant number o fhouseholds stated they also would use it for
 agriculture and other income generation. The benefits to households o f switching from kerosene to
 electric lightinginclude greater convenience, improved safety, andbetter indoor air quality. The
 women who participatedinthe survey, inparticular, valued highlythe improvement inhealthcare
 facilities that electricity access would facilitate. While most households indicated that they would be
 able to afford the monthly consumption bill, a significant numbero f them said it would be hard for them
 to meet the initial connectioncosts.

 6.1.3 With these survey results inmind, the project will include measuresto introduce lower-cost
 electrification standards. Inaddition, it will design a system that allows people the option of installment
 payments to cover the initial costs o f connection over, say, two harvest seasons, and encourage meter
 sharing to reduce the initial costs to the individualhousehold.

 6.1.4 The poorest strata o f the population will probably not have the possibility to connect to the
 electrical distribution system directly. They will, nevertheless, benefit from the project through: (a) the
 availability of street-lighting and improved health, educationand water services andrelated
 installations; or (b) connectionthrough their neighbors. The project also i s likely to have multiplier
 effects due to an expansion o f economic activities that will create employment opportunities, which
 should benefitthe poor.

 6.1.5 For the Asmara distribution system component, the Borrower has conducted a socioeconomic
 survey focused on gaining an understandingo fthe benefits andpossibleproblems associatedwith


                                                  - 3 1-

 voltage conversion. The study covered 116households and firms. Of this total, 54 percent were from
 areas that were recently converted from 127V to 220 V andthe other 46 percent were from
 non-converted areas. The sample includedhouseholds from upper, middle, and lower income groups.
 Households accounted for about 80 percent of the sample and the remaining 20 percent consisted o f
 industrial concerns, commercial establishments, and other businesses. The survey selected the
 respondents at random from the streets o f the residential areas, and from customers who frequented
 shops inthe selected areas. The survey had several significant findings. First, itnoted that the voltage
 conversions inprevious electrification programs had improved the quality o f service. Second it
 revealed the importance o f adequateadvance notification about voltage conversion, through a formal
 channel rather than through word o f mouth. Third it found that inabout 50percent o f cases, conversion
 required an additional cost for re-wiring (about Nfa 400 per room). Fourth, it determined that damage
 to appliances following voltage conversion, due to the lack o f adequate information on the switch and
 negligence inappliance maintenance, was a significant burdento the clients. The project's design has
 taken all o f these results into consideration.

                             Specific SocialImpacts and MitigationMeasures:

Extendedpower cuts to customers duringthe        Use mobile diesel generators to supply critical
rehabilitationo f the Asmara network (moderate   customers andor encourage them to have
risk)                                            standby generators.
Blowouts fromvoltage conversion (moderate risk) Extensive mass media coverage to prepare
                                                 consumers.
i
Some areas may be mined (moderate risk)          Ensure mine clearance beforehand.
Some areas may not get services                  A feasible single-wire-earth-return systemhas
                                                 beenstudiedby a consultant fromthe project
                                                 funds; Incorporation ofvillage- and
                                                                              -
                                                 Zobaidriven-initiatives.
Local skills adapted to diesel powered           TechnicaVfinancial assistanceto promote shift
pumpdgenerators                                  to electricity inrural areas.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
 6.2.1 The ESMMP has identified a consultationprocess to be followed duringimplementation. MEM
 will monitor the process and develop indicatorsto assess the degree o fparticipation ofkey stakeholders.
 The participationwill take place through meetings, radio programs, public hearings and sharing o f
 project information. The independent M&Eassessments are an additional avenue for consultation at
 key stages o fthe project.

 6.2.2 For theAsmara component, EEC will coordinate closely with the Asmara city administration and
 the Asmara InfrastructureDepartmentto ensure smoothimplementation. Itwill continue consulting
 with the Task Force for the preparationo fthe Asmara masterplan, which consists o frepresentatives
 from the Asmara Municipality, UNDP, and MEM. Also, EEC will develop a mechanismfor sharing
 andreceivinginformation from its consumers on the implementationprogress to minimize disruptions
 and it will coordinate with the National Museumon issues relatedto archeological structures and
 culturalheritage.

 6.2.3 For the rural component, MEMand EEC will involve the communities to be electrifiedthrough
 direct consultation duringdesign and implementation. Community participation i s a key feature o f the
 project for extending access. Inthe case o f electric cooperatives, communities will be the owners of the
 sub-projects.


                                                  - 32 -

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration withNGOs or other civil society
organizations?
 6.3.1 A number o fNGOsinruralareas are providingaccess to micro-credits for income generating
 activities, inparticular for women. The project will include these NGOsinconsultations. Inaddition,
 the project will work with cooperative structures and user groups (e.g. around meter sharing) especially
 inthe context ofruralelectrificationaccessibilityfor poorer andvulnerable households. Village
 Administrators also will have an important role to play inthe targeting ofruralelectrification and to
 ensurebeneficiary participation.


6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
 6.4.1 Asmara Component. The PMU, inconsultation with the Technical Committee, will implement
 the ESMMP and RPF and follow-up on the day-to-day activities o fthe project. EEC will collaborate
 with the Asmara City council to minimize impact on city life duringconstructionandprovide timely
 information to consumers about voltage conversion.

 6.4.2 Rural Component. EEC's engineering team and an engineering consultant have studiedthe
 suitability o f inexpensive options o frural electrification, including single-wire-earth-retum system.
 Basedon the outcome, the least-cost design and the optimum right-of-way have been selected. Village
 and Zoba Administrators together with the PMUandMEMwill collaborate to ensure popular
 participation and administration o fthe ESMMP andresettlement activities. The MEMwill be the lead
 agency inconductingthe training to VAS,energy service providers, and electrical practitioners.

 6.4.3 CulturalResources. Inthe context o f cultural resources, EEC andMEMhave involved the
 National Museumindiscussions with regardto any necessaryrescue work. Inthe event that civil works
 encounter archaeological heritage, the PMUwill contact the National Museumto make arapid
 assessment survey to clear the area for development or to work with planners insuggesting mitigating
 alternatives to activities that will result inthe destruction o f cultural heritage sites. The contracts with
 private companies involved incivil works will oblige them to go through this same channel.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
         The responsibilities for monitoring and evaluationare as follows:

         MEMwill monitor andevaluate the project execution, quarterly, throughitsPC. Inparticular, it
         will beresponsible for monitoringandevaluatingthe social outcomes inthe electrified villages
         as well as the ESMMP andRFPprocesses.

         EEC's PMUandthe international consultants for the project will be l l l y responsible for the
         continuous follow-up and co-ordination o f the monitoring and evaluationo f the ESMMPfor the
         Asmara component.

         VASwill beresponsible for quarterly monitoringof: (a) environmentaland social assessment
         work inthe individual villages; (b) implementation o f the compensation plans; (c) the
         facilitation o f the works duringthe construction process; and (d) the activities o f EEC, the
         Electricity Co-operatives, and/or energy service companies, as appropriate, inthe management o f
         electricity services after electrification.




                                                    - 33 -

6.5.2    As for the environmental monitoring, discussedinSection 5.5 above, the objectives for the social
monitoring are two-fold:

    a) Alert project authorities and provide timely information about the implementationprogress in
         such a manner that changes to the design can bemade ifrequired.

    b) Make a final evaluation to determine the project outcomesandwhether the mitigationmeasures
         designed into the project activities have been successful insuch a way that the social conditions
         have been improved.

6.5.3    The ESA has set two major socio-economic goals bywhich to evaluate the project's success:

    a) Improve the standard o f living o f individuals, households, and communities; and

    b) Ensurecontinued support of the project bythe local communities.

6.5.4    To assessthe achievement o fthe above goals, the ESMMPhasidentified the following
monitoring indicators after the project compared to before it: (a) landtaken for construction; (b) number
of villages/townships electrified ina Zobdsub-Zoba; (c) level o fparticipation inproject activities
compared to before; (d) time series statistics o f the domestic, commercial, and industrial customers; (e)
improvement insocial facilities like health, clean water sources, schools; and (0how many people
employed comparedto before etc.

7. SafeguardPolicies:
I7.1EnvironmentalAssessment
     Areany o f the following safeguard policies triggeredby the project?
                                 Policy                              I                                     I
                                                                               0Yes 0No
                                                                                     Triggered
                               (OP 4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01)
    NaturalHabitats(OP 4.04, BP4.04, GP 4.04)                                  0Yes 0No
    Forestry(OP 4.36, GP4.36)                                                  0Yes 0No
    PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                    0Yes 0No
    CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03)                                                0 Yes 0No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                 0Yes 0No
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                        0 Yes 0No
    Safetyof Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                            0Yes 0No
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                   0   Yes 0 No
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP7.60, GP 7.60)*                        0Yes 0No

7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

EnvironmentalAssessment:

7.2.1    The Environmental and Social Assessment for the project was disclosedon February 10,2004.
See Section E5.1.

InvoluntaryResettlement:

7.2.2    The project has identifiedthe possibility o f some resettlement impacts largely inthe form o f
temporary land allocation for some civil works. The project has prepared and disclosed a Resettlement
Policy Framework (RFP) inthe event that this occurs. The RPF outlines the institutional responsibilities


                                                - 34 -

for development ofresettlementplans before civil works commence. Itprovides a budget for training to
develop such plans; describes an entitlementmatrix outlining different categories of affectedpersons and
different categories o fproperties requiringcompensation; and sets out monitoring indicators and a
 grievance mechanism. Before any civilworks that require displacement ofpeople or compensation for
asset loss start, EEC will prepare a Resettlement Action Planinaccordance with the guidelines inthe
RPFandclear it withthe Bank.



Damages to agricultural products during construction (low risk)                            Erection during the dry season
Securing an optimum righto fway (low risk)                                                 Involve local administration
                                                                                           andpeople
Denial o f or restrictive access to economic resources, land, fodder, property, buildings, Limittheuse ofheavyvehicles
h i ttrees, etc (low risk)                                                                 andpay compensation for
                                                                                           damages
Pole erection passingthroughfarm lands(highrisk)                                           Limittheuseofheavyvehicles
                                                                                           andpay compensation for
                                                                                           damages
Disruptionofpathways                                                                       Lay undergroundcables and
                                                                                           refill Dathwavswithurgencv

 CulturalProperty:

 7.2.3     Eritrea has 20,000 to 40,000 heritage sites. Many of these sites have national, continental, and
 global importance. However, manypotentially sensitive areas are not yet knownbecausearchaeologists
 and heritage managers are only beginningto document the presence of cultural heritage sites. The ESA
has identified all the known sites. Ithas mechanisms inplace to work closely with the National Museum
withregardto any necessaryrescuework. Inthe event that civil works encounter archaeological
heritage, the National Museumwill be contacted. Once contacted, museumand university personnel will
make a rapid assessment survey to clear the area for development or to work with planners insuggesting
mitigating alternatives to activities that threaten cultural heritage sites. Contracts o fprivate companies
involved incivil works will oblige them to go through this same channel.




                                                         - 35 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1.1      The sustainability o f the Asmara distribution rehabilitationand extension will be improved
through the implementation of an effective commercialization andreformprogram for the power
sub-sector as a whole andalso for EEC. A key factor insustainabilityi s the adjustment o f EEC's tariffs
on a timely basis so as to ensurethat the company fully recovers the cost of its operations.

1.2      For rural electrification, the project's design focuses on lowering the cost o fproviding service by
adopting technologies that matchdemand andby encouraging communities and localenterprises to take
on the management responsibility for local electricity distribution. The project's design addresses
sustainability also by requiring the selectedvillages to pay a certainportion o fthe connection costs.
Adequate administration o fthe RuralElectrification Fundwould increase sustainability through the
transparent mechanismfor selecting and subsidizing qualified schemes. Finally, the project will build
Govemment capacity inits role as amarket facilitator to foster private sector involvement inthe
electricity business.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                                                   Risk Rating    I            Risk Mitigation Measure

                                                        S          - Development,     bythe Government o fa
 sector reform strategy.                                           comprehensive power sector reformprogramto
                                                                   allow private sector entrants, which i s
                                                                   underway.
                                                                   - Implementation     o f EEC's financial
                                                                   restructuringbefore implementation starts.
                                                                   - Provision o fBank support including overall
                                                                   macro dialogue, to help the Govemment
                                                                   continue its efforts to proceedwithprogram
                                                                   implementation and overcome obstacles.
 Government commitment to adopt new                     M          - Adoption  o fthe phased approach for the
 electrification approach.                                         electrification component, including the
                                                                   establishment o fthe institutional framework at
                                                                   a pace suitable for reinforcing Government and
                                                                   stakeholder ownership o f the proposednew
                                                                   approach.
 Community willingness and capacity to                  S          - Inclusiono  f outreachactivities duringproject
 implement a community-based                                       implementation to solicit stakeholders input
 distribution business.                                            and address their concerns.
                                                                   - Provision  o f training and awareness
                                                                   campaigns for communities to better
                                                                   understand the benefits and costs.
 Limitedaffordability or lower than                     H          - Connection   o f only villages that have paid an
 expected demand inproject areas                                   up-front contribution to the connection costs.
                                                                   - Adjustment o fthe project scope to demand
                                                                  projections at appraisal.
                                                                   - Establishmento fthe design o f the Asmara
                                                                   distribution extensionbasedon firmly planned
                                                                   housing.and commercial develoDments.



                                                 - 3 6 -

Limitedresponse from private                      H          .Continuousreviewofthe financialterms
entrepreneurs for rural electrification                      underthe REFund.
activities.
Low-cost distribution designs and                 M          - Continued   interest o f EEC and the
practices are not mainstreamed.                              -Government inlow-cost     designs.
                                                                Establishment o f a system for M&E to
                                                             measure the benefits.
Electricity tariffs not timely and                M                         f a          electricity tariffs.
adequately adjusted.                                         -- Financingo study on
                                                                Assistance to the Government inestablishing
                                                             a suitable tariff setting mechanism.
From Components to Outputs
Delays inimplementing sector reform               M          - Government     agreement withthe main
due to inadequate management                                 principles o f the programwas a requirement for
capability.                                                  negotiations.
                                                             -- Financing  o frelatedtechnical assistance.
                                                                Involvement o f stakeholders at all stages o f
                                                             the studies and incorporation o ftheir inputs.
Delays inthe implementation of the                M          - Implementationsupport EECby
                                                                                         to
project.                                                     experienced international management
                                                             consultants.
                                                             - Procurement    and project management training
                                                             for EEC andthe MEM.
                                                             - Coordination EECwiththe
                                                                               o f              Asmara City
                                                             Council andthe Infiastructure Department to
                                                             optimize construction scheduling inthe city
                                                             center.
                                                             - Regular  monitoringby Bank supervision
                                                             -missions.
                                                                Implementationo f the Asmara andthe RE
                                                             components through "supplyand installation"
                                                             contracts to reduce logistical and coordination
                                                             problems.
Low cost design and construction                  N           - Studies on low- cost designs have been
practices arenot adopted.                                    completedand incorporatedinproject design.
                                                   S
RiskRating H (High Risk),S (SubstantialRis
           -                               M (Modest Risk),Nl Jegligibleor Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None identified




                                              - 37 -

G. Main Credit/Grantconditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
       EEC will have executed a subsidiary financing agreement (for IDA Credit and Grant) with the
       Borrower;
       EEC will have submittedits 2003 audited financial statements to IDA;
       The Borrower and EEC will have established an adequate financial management system, and
       adequate capacity to produce FMRs, inform and substance satisfactory to the Association, to
       ensure proper accounting andmonitoringo fproject funds;
       The Borrower will have adopted a Financial Management Manual, inform and substance
       satisfactory to the Association;
       EECwill have issuedthe request for proposal for selectiono findependent auditors, inform and
       substance satisfactory to the Association;
       EEC will have appointed an accountant, havingterms o freference and qualifications satisfactory
       to the Association; and
       The Borrower will have opened a Project Account for counterpart funds and deposited the Initial
       Deposit therein.

2. Other [classifyaccordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
Board:

   a) The Borrower will have submitteda final letter o f its sector policy, acceptable to the
       Association.

Disbursement conditions:

   a) The financing o f expenditures for sub-projects from the Rural Electrification Fundunder the
       community and private sector ledrural electrificationprogramwill be conditional on: (a)
       preparation o f a detailedproject OperationalManual describingthe eligibility criteria and the
       terms and conditions for financing; (b) establishment o f satisfactory institutional andfinancial
       arrangements for rural electrification, consistingo fthe Rural Electrification Fundandthe Rural
       ElectrificationUnit;and (c) establishment o f clear criteria for the selection o f electrification
       sites.

 Project Specific Covenants for LegalDocuments

Financial:

   a) EECwill maintain debt service coverage ratio o f at least at least 1.3 from FY2006 onwards;
   b) EEC will maintainapositive returnonassets fromFY2006 onwards;
   c) EEC will partially finance its investment program from FY2006 onwards;
   d) EECwill maintainaccounts receivablelessthan two months equivalent o ftotalbilling;
   e) EEC will follow internationally-acceptedaccountingrules anduse external auditors meeting
       international standards acceptable to IDA; and
   f) GOEandEECwill not make changes to the agreedrestructuringo f EEC's capital structure
       without IDA'Sagreement.




                                                 - 3 8 -

Implementation:

      EECandMEMwill implement their respectiveproject components inaccordance with the
      agreed procurement and implementation plans;
      EECand MEMwill prepare annual trainingplans as a basis for financing under the project;
      EECwill separatethe financial accounts relatingto itsruralelectrification business from the
      accounts relatingto its urbandistributionby February 2005;
      Government will conduct a study on electricity regulationand discuss it with IDAby April 2005;
      Government will conduct a study on electricity tariffs and discuss the results with IDA by March
      2005;
      Government will establish clear mechanism for electricity tariff setting by September 2005;
      Government will conduct a study on the institutional, administrative, and fiduciary arrangements
      for the REFundand discussed it with IDA by May 2005;
      Government will establish performance targets for EEC with respect to the urban distribution and
      rural electrification businesses and discuss these with IDAbyM a y 2005; and
      EECwill carry outa study onits institutional strengtheningneeds and execute the key
      recommendations so that it can effectively fulfill its obligations under the Electricity
      Proclamation by June 2005.

Reporting:

  a) EEC and MEMwill prepare quarterly progress reports andFinancial Management Reports for
      their respective components andreview them with IDA.




                                               - 39 -

H. Readinessfor Implementation
E l 1. a) The engineeringdesigndocumentsfor thefirst year's activitiesarecompleteand readyfor the
          startofproject implementation,
EI.b)Notapplicable.
E! 2. The procurementdocumentsfor the firstyear'sactivitiesarecomplete!and readyfor the start of

E3.TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
       projectimplementation.

       quality.
IJ4. The following itemsare lackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



1. Compliance with Sank Policies
    1. This projectcomplieswith allapplicableBankpolicies,
I 'I2. The following exceptionsto Bank policiesare recommendedfor approval. The project complies
       with all otherapplicableBank policies.




 Paivi Koljonen                         YusuphaCrookes
 TeamLeader                             Sector Manager




                                              - 40 -

                                       Annex 1: Project Design Summary
   ERITREA ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT
                                       Key Performance                DataCollectionStrategy
Hierarchyof Objectives                      lndicators                                                    CriticalAssumptions
,ector-relatedCAS Goal:         Sector Indicators:                    iectorl countryreports:          from Goal to Bank Mission)
upport broad-based economic     .Increasedreliability    of, and                                       ,strong, financiallysustainable
rowth and encourage the         access to, electricitysupply.                                           ower sector is akey element to
evelopmentof small and          .Increasedefficiencyandlower                                            upport broad-based,
ledium size enterprisesthrough  Energycosts.                                                            nvironmentally sound urbanand
nhancedpublic service delivery   - Increasedvillage and rural                                           iral growth, which will
ndreduction o f infrastructure  growth and small business                                               ontribute to poverty alleviation.
ottlenecks.                     productivity.



Iroject Development              Dutcome/ Impact                      'reject reports:                  FromObjectiveto Goal)
Ibjective:                       Indicators:
. A sustainable progrmfor        1a. EEC is meeting its financial      .- EEC'scorporate   accounts and Macro-economic performance
icreasedelectricity access is    performancetargets, e.g. its debt    bperational reports.              ndpeacesustained.
stablished.                      service coverageratio is more
                                 than 1.3 from2006 onwards.           -Quarterly reports from EEC's      Socialbudget transfers for
                                                                      'MUandMinistryofEnergyand lovertyalleviationareadequate.
                                 1b. EEC's investmentprogram          dines.
                                 andoperationsare basedon                                               Programs for improving
                                 sound technical, financial and        Mid-termreport byan              griculture and other
                                 environmental criteria.              ndependentparty.                  nfrastructure services and
                                                                                                        griculture productivity inrural
                                 IC.  Sectorregulator is functional.   Implementation completion        reas are implemented.
                                                                      'eport by an independentparty.
                                 Id. Selection criteriafor rural                                         Other government policies
                                 electrification is applied.           EEC demand and supply            :onduciveto private sector led
                                                                      itatistics.                       rowth.
                                 le. About 30,000 new rural
                                 consumersare connected to             Banksupervision reports.
                                 power supplyby the end of the
                                 project.

                                 1f. The numberofconsumers in
                                 the Asmara system has increased
                                 to'80,OOO bythe end ofthe
                                 project.

                                 lg. Communities andprivate
                                 sector enterprises havebeen
                                 informedo f investment and
                                 management opportunities inthe
                                 power sector.



!. The quality andreliabilityof  2a. Voltage fluctuations in          l. -Quarterly reports fromPMU.
upplyis improved                 Asmara are reducedto +- 5 % of
                                 supplyvoltage byproject closing.     IDemand and supply statistics
                                                                      ?om EEC.
                                 2b. SystemlossesinAsmaraare
                                 reducedfrom current 18 % o fnet      . Mid-term and implementation
                                 :eneration to 7% by project          :ompletion reports by an
                                 :losing.                             ndependent party.




                                                                - 41 -

                                  2c. Unplannedsupply                 Banksupervisionreports.
                                  interruptions are reducedby90%
                                  byproject closing.




htput from each                   Output Indicators:                  Voject reports:               (fromOutputsto Objective)
:omponent:
iector Reformand Institutional    - Agreed sector reformstudies       EritreanGazette                - Stakeholders support the
Zapacity Building:                andTA are carried out.                                             long-termpower sector andrural
                                                                      EEC's corporateaccounts.       electrification strategy.
Agreed sector structure and       - 50 staffare trained.
,trategyare implemented.                                              Annual reports from Regulator.

 Staff are adequatelytrained.                                         Banksupervisionreports.

hral Electrification:             - About  500 kmof MV lines          Quarterlyreports fromPMUand - Commercially-oriented
                                  extendedfrom 4 major towns to       nanagingconsultants.           community driven rural
Selectedrural towns and villages about 80 ruralvillages andtowns                                     electrification gains widespread
r e electrified usinglow cost     by projectclosing.                   Banksupervisionrepop.         acceptance.
echnologies where practical.                                                                         - There  is no affordability
                                  - About 300kmofconventional                                        problem andthe expecteddemand
Rural ElectrificationFundis       LVand40 kmof SWER lines                                            materializes.
stablished.                       installedby project closing.                                       - Low-cost   designs and
                                                                                                     construction practices are
                                  - The Operational Manual for the                                   mainstreamed.
                                  REFund, criteriafor site                                            -Private sector is interestedin
                                  selection, and the institutional                                   participating inelectrification.
                                  and financial architecture for
                                  community and private sector
                                  basedelectrification are
                                  established.
                                  - ESMMP    and RFP are
                                  implemented.

ismara distribution rehabilitation- A new  substationis constructed    Quarterly reports from EEC's  - Other  partsofthe power system
md expansion:                     and3 existing ones are              'MU andmanagingconsultants     operate efficiently.
                                  rehabilitated.
Power distributionnetwork in                                           Banksupervisionreports.       - The expecteddemand
ismara is refurbishedand          -About 30 kmof 15 kV                                               materializes.
:xpanded.                         underground cable and 60 kmo f
                                  15 kV overheadline i s installed
                                  bythe endofthe project.
                                  - About  40 kmofexisting5.5 kV
                                  lines uprated to 15 kV.

                                  - About 1,000 kmofexisting
                                  open-wire LV line is replaced
                                  with ABC.

                                  - About 200 transformers are
                                  replacedwith new ones or
                                  refurbished by the end o f the
                                  moiect.



                                                                - 42 -

IEnvironmentaland Social           - MEM   andVA staffare trained  Semi-annualmonitoringreports
 Management:                       inenvironmentalscreeningand     roman independent
                                  management.                      nvironmentaland social
                                                                   onsultant.
                                   - M&E activitiesare carriedout.
                                   - Compensationispaid as
                                   stipulatedinthe RPF.




 ProjectComponentsI               Inputs: (budgetfor each          'roject reports:                from Components to         ~~




 Sub-components:                  component)                                                       Iutputs)
 1 Asmaradistribution
  .                                1. US$34.1 million              luarterlyprogressand financial  Projectis implementedontime
 rehabilitationandexpansion                                        magement reports from PMU.      md budget.

                                                                                                   Least-costsolutionsare
                                                                                                   mplemented.

 2. RuralelectrificationbyEEC     3. US$ 16.4 million              juarterly progressandfinancial  Projectimplementedon time
                                                                   magement reportsfrom PMU.       mdbudget.

                                                                                                    Low-cost designsandpractices
                                                                                                   ueadopted.

 3. RuralElectrificationFund      2. US$ 1.4million                luarterly progressand financial Fundsare usedfor intended
                                                                   magement reportsfrom MEM.       urposes.
 4. Sectorreformand               4. US$4.7 million                luarterly progressand financial The programof sectorreform
 institutional capacity building                                   ianagementreportsfrom PMU       mdcapacitybuilding activitiesis
                                                                   ndMEM.                          :arriedout inatimely manner.

                                                                                                   Governmentimplements
                                                                                                   equiredinstitutional andreform
                                                                                                   neasuresinatimely manner.

 5. Environmentalandsocial         5. US$ 0.5 million              2uarterlyprogressand financial
management                                                         ianagementreportsfrom PMU
                                                                   ndMEM.




                                                              -43 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
  ERITREA: ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT

By Component:

ProjectComponent 1 US$34.10 million
                       -

Asmara Distribution SystemRehabilitationandExpansion

1.      The Asmara distribution rehabilitationand expansion component seeks to remove operating
constraints on the distribution system inthe city, to reduce losses and allow for the forecast increase in
demand to be met over the next 20 years. An IDA credit will finance the foreign costs o fthis component
- about US$31.4 million.

2.      Investments. The project includes for anew Asmara North 66/15kV substation, plus
upgradinghehabilitationof the existingGejeret and Dendensubstation andminor works at Asmara East
andBelesa substations; the complete replacement ofthe old 5.5kV mediumvoltage systemby 15kV and
for the elimination of the old 127/220V LV supplies, replacingthem with a modern400/230V system. In
addition, the MV system inthe old historic city center areawill be undergrounded andthe open-wire
systems replacedby aerial bunchedcable (ABC). The project also includes for the replacement o f
service connections andnew meters for the consumers at present supplied at 127V.

The component comprises the followingmainelements:

0   66kV substation works, including:

           the constructiono f a new 66/15kV substation, at Asmara Northat a site close to the existing
           Belesa to Asmara East 66kV overhead line. The substation will include 2x12.5MVA 66/15kV
           transformers, 66kV switchgear, a 17panel 15kV indoor switchboard, civil works, protection
           equipment and auxiliary supplies. The new Asmara Northsubstation will replace the old
           Central substation adjacent to the EEC head office which will be decommissioned;
           upgradingo f the existing 66/15/5.5kV substations at Gejeret. The substation works include
           modifications to the 66kV switchyard to accommodate an undergroundcable circuit (to
           Denden), 2x12.5MVA 66115kV transformers, 66kV switchgear, a 13panel 15kV indoor
           switchboard, civil works, protection equipment, auxiliary supplies and dismantling and
           removal of the existing 66kV transformers and obsolete 5.5kV switchboardand equipment;
           upgradingo f the existing 66115kV substation at Denden. The substation works include
           refurbishmentandor replacement o f 66kV switchgear, structures and civil works, lx12.5MVA
           66115kV transformer, one new4 panel 15kV switchboard and cable connectionto the existing
           15kV switchboard, associatedcivil works, protection equipment and auxiliary supplies, and
           dismantling andremoval of the existing 66/15kV transformer and all obsolete switchgear and
           equipment;
           minor works at Asmara East substation to reposition steel gantries associatedwith three 15kV
           feeder circuits, associated 15kV cabling and civil works;
           minor works at Belesa 66kV substation includingrehbishmento f the switchgear support
           structures, replacement of 3 generation control andprotectionpanels; replacement o f three
           66kV isolators; associated cabling and auxiliary works; and dismantlinghemoval o f the
           obsolete control panels..
           Replacement o fthe old 66kV overhead line betweenGejeret and Dendensubstations by 66kV
           underground cable, a route length of 2km; and


                                                   - 44 -

    (g)    Dismantlingandremoval o f the obsolete 66kV lines between Belesa and Asmara Central
           substations andbetweenGejeret and Denden substations.

0   Refurbishment o f existing 15kV overhead lines and constructiono f new feeders to replaceall 5.5kV
    feeder circuits inAsmara. The design includes for undergrounding o f all 15kV circuits inthe historic
    central city area, plusa number o fthe circuits emanating from the Dendensubstation due to
    problems o f wayleaves for overhead lines. The Consultant's design includes a total of:

    (a)    39.3km of 15kV underground cable;
    (b)    62.3km o fnew 15kV overhead line (main feeders andbranches);
    (c)    42.2km o f existing 5.5kV overhead line upratingto 15kV by addingnew cross-arms and
           insulators (main feeders andbranches);
    (d)     11.6km o f existing 15kVoverhead linerequiringnew cross-arms(main feeders andbranches);
           and
    (e)    17.0km o f existing 15kVoverhead line to be inspected and minor defects rectified(main
           feeders andbranches).

0   Installation o fnew 15kV/LV distribution transformers andassociatedfusegear to replace all
    5.5kVILV transformers and uprate existing 15kVILV transformers comprising:

    (a)    79 ground-mounted transformers, total capacity 40.7MVA; and
    (b)    148 pole-mountedtransformers, total capacity 29.6MVA.

0   Replacement of all the existing open-wire LV systemusingaerial bunched cable (ABC), fixed either
    to buildingsor mountedonpoles depending on the location. The Consultant's estimate includes for
    the supply and installation 1,000 kmo fABC.

0   Replacement o f 32,000 consumer meters and 59,000 service connections. Meters will be the
    electro-mechanical type except for 1,000 3-phase consumers, which will be fitted with electronic
    meters. This will allow for an additional 14,000 new consumers to be added to the system (to 2012).
    This element will also include for the installation o f a new meter testing laboratory to replace the
    existingfacility which hasreachedthe end o f its useful life.

3.      Technical assistance: Consulting services and training for design, implementation
management, construction, and operation.

Project Component2 US$16.40 million
                      -

Rurul Electrification by EEC

1.      The ruralelectrification component will assist the Government to increase access to electricity in
underprivilegedrural areas to improve livingconditions and spur economic development. It consists o f
the development o f appropriate least cost methodologiesfor ruralelectrification inEritrea and using
these standards for the electrification o fthe selected villages and small towns. The foreign exchange
portion o f the component - US$12.37 million - will be financed by an IDA post-conflict grant.

2.      The component includes for the electrification o f about 30,000 households, agricultural irrigation
pumpsand other smallbusinesses, schools, clinics, churches, andmosques, etc. inabout 80 villages
around the four major towns of Keren, Barentu, Dekemhare, and Adi Keihthrough network extensions.


                                               - 45 -

Keren and Dekemhare are connected to the transmission gndwhereas Barentuand Adi Keihare supplied
from diesel power plants inthe towns. The capacity o f the diesel plants i s sufficient to meet the initial
needs of the project and the EEChas plans to add additional capacity as required utilizing existingdiesel
unitsmade available fromother towns that haverecentlybeenconnected to the transmission grid. The
Emergency Reconstructionproject (Cr. 34340) financed the rehabilitation o f the electricity distribution
systems inBarentu and Adi Keihin2002.

3.
connections to about 30,000 consumers. The total length o f lines is 948km - this includes 538km o f
         Investments: The project will finance the requiredMV and LV lines, transformers, and service

15kV, 362km o f 33kV and48km o f 19kV single wire earth return (SWER).

4.       The villages will be suppliedat either 15kV or 33kV conventional 3-phase, or 19kV SWER,
depending onthe distances andthe types o f loads. The Consultant has optimizedthe designs using
innovative SWER and two-phase, double wound transformers inorder to reduce the current flowing in
the "earth return". The SWER i s limitedto parts o fthe Adi Keih system, since inthe other areas there i s
a significant irrigation pumpingload.

Kerenarea:

5.       The electrification o f the Keren area includes the small towns and villages o f Gush, HaddishAdi,
Terenque, Shieb, Debresina, Libana, Halhal, MaiAwalid, Melebso, Mensura, Shaftaque, Karotnejar,
Hirkok and Aderde.

BarentuArea:

6.       The electrification includes the small towns o f Gogne, Tokombia, Binbina, Shambuko, Areda,
Mogolo.

DekemhareArea:

7.       The electrification o f the Dekemhare area includes the villages o fKeih-Quor, Sesah, Military
Camp, Hospital, Alla, Gaden, DeluNazo, Awli Tsoru, Azamir, Zeban Angeb, Damba, Wekerti, Adi
Araada, Amhur, Arato, Korbaria, Haren, Adi Nefas, Adi Rassi, and the Villages o f Tukul, Gura, Enda
Deko, Ziban Seraw, Adi Nefas, Mai Edaga, Godeyti, Halibo, Mai Yaha, Kertse Kemte, Kinafna, Mai
Aini, Tsorona, Akrur, Hebo, Adi Angefom, Degra, Ewanet, Digsa, Adi Hadid, Beralut, Birluto, andAdi
Quita.

Adi-KeihArea:

8.       The electrification ofthe Adi-Keihareaincludes the villages o f EmbaChilai, Tegeren, Ento, Adi
Lejji, Quatit, Mirgatse, Emba Quaquat, Embeito, Ziban Zigib, Adi Wegera, Hawatsu, Mendefera, Adi
Kanta, Awhine, Berhenet, Halai, HaddishAdi, Quahaito, Egla, Embalaka, Mekayih, M a i Sagla, Serha,
Ambeset Geleba, Meneksoyto.

Technical Assistance:

9.       The project will include financing o f technical assistanceto implement changes inthe
distribution standardsused for ruralelectrification and consultancy services and training for design,
implementationmanagement, construction and operation.



                                                - 4 6 -

Rural electrification wocedure inEritrea:

10.      Inlinewithruralelectrificationprocedures inEritrea, the villagers provideanup-frontpayment
to meet the cost ofthe low-voltage reticulation inthe village. For households electrified during
2002/2003, the average payment was 920 Nfaper household. The cost depends on the size and layout o f
the village. For example, the larger andor the more compact the village the lower the cost. The payment
per household will vary. The Village Administrator determines it onthe basis o f the household's "ability
to pay" and collects the payments directly from the consumers. Basedon the 2002/2003 average
payment and given the substantial variation inthe reported average income o f the project's targetvillages
rangingfrom 2,119 to 19,295 Nfa, households' payment would range from 5 percent to 43 percent o f
annual income. However, systematic planning andthe establishment o f lower cost distribution standards
underthis project willreducethiscost. As the project will finance the entireconnectioncostsinthe
selected villages, IDA agreedwiththe Government that the payments from the villages will be deposited
inthe RuralElectrificationFundto benefit future electrification. This arrangement willensure
consistency with the financing arrangement invillages that have beenrecently electrified with financing
from the Government and SIDA. An up-front payment will also increase the villages' ownership o f the
project. The project also will help to make connectionaffordable by establishing an improvedpayment
mechanism, whereby consumers can elect to paythe connectioncost inannual installments.

Project Component 3 US$1.40 million
                        -

Fundingfor theRural Electrification Fund

1.       The Governmentwill establish a Rural Electrification Fundto provide grants for the capital costs
of electrification o f additional villages either byEEC, village cooperatives, or private energy service
companies. An IDApost-conflict Grant will finance this component once the Fundhas beenestablished
with suitable administrative management arrangements, andthe Government has developed clear
selection criteria for rural electrification. The expectationi s that the IDA financing will catalyze
additional donor financing inthe future. Also, the Governmentplans to establish a surcharge on
electricity tariffs to continually replenish the Fund. Finally, EEC will deposit to the Fundthe
contribution payments it will collect from the villages to be electrified under the project.

Project Component 4 US$4.70 million
                        -

Sector Reform and Institutional Capacity Building

1.       The project will finance the implementation o f the Govemment's power sector reformprogram.
The program o factivities will help the Governmentto reconstructandmodemizethe power sector
institutions and regulatory framework to meet the challenges o f an economy emergingfrom a conflict
situation. An IDApost-conflict grant will finance about US$4.5 million.

4.1. Sector Reform

e        Expert services for the: (a) implementationo f the new Electricity Proclamation; (b) setting-up
         the Power sector RegulatoryFunction (c) development o f a tariff settingpolicy andmechanism;
         (d) setting-up the RuralElectrificationFund; and (e) other activities as definedduringthe
         project's implementationperiod.
b        Training of EEC andMEMstaff inelectricity sector reformandregulation; training o fregulator
         and Rural Electrification Fundstaff; and



                                                  - 47 -

0       Awareness campaigns for rural entrepreneurs and farmers on usingelectricity for increased
        productivity.

4.2. EEA CapacityBuilding

0       Establishmento f a Management Information Systemwith required software andhardware.
0       Expert services for the: (a) separation o f accounts for EEC's rural and urbanbusinesses; and (b)
        strengthening o fEEC's corporate planningfunction;
0       Review o f EEC's institutional needs, practices, andperfonnancetargets and technical assistance
        to enable it to fulfillits obligations under the new Electricity Proclamation;
0       Training inproject management, environmentalmanagement, procurement, financial
        management, investment planning, customer care and demand management, tariff setting, etc.;
        and
0       Other technical assistanceand studies as required.

4.3. MEMCapacity Building

0       Training coordinator/trainer o ftrainers to review the training needs o f MEM,VA, and ZA and
        identify suitable national and intemational training opportunities;
0       Training to MEM, VA, ZA, electric cooperatives, energy service companies;
0       Expert services and studies for monitoring and evaluation o f the project's outputs and impacts
        and other activities as required; and
0       A vehicle anda laptop computer for monitoringo fruralelectrification fieldwork.

Project Component 5 US$0.50 million
                      -

Environmental ad Social Management

1.      This component will finance the cost ofimplementingthe Environmentaland Social
Management andmonitoringPlanprepared for the project. The main activities are: (a) training and
advisory services for EEA'sproject Management Unit,MEM,and the Village Administrators; (b)
implementation of the M&Eactivities; (c) implementation o f a compensation plan for loss of crops
duringconstructionofpower linesunder EEA'sdistribution rehabilitation andrural electrification
components; and (d) environmentalaudits at the end o f the project. An IDA post-conflict Grant will
finance about US$0.4 million.

2.      The environmental mitigation and compensation measures for the Asmara distribution
component cover the elements inthe table below, which also indicates the responsibility for their
implementation.




                                                 -48  -

 Table2.1 Environmentalmitigationandcompensationmeasuresfor theAsmara component

 M easure                                                   Implementationresponsibility
 Excavation andbackfilling o fall underground cable         The turnkey contractor, supervised bythe EEC's
 trenches andmakinggood o ftiled pavements                  EngineeringConsultants for the Asmara component
                                                            and EEC.
 Avoiding excessive restrictions on access to land,         Same as above
 buildings and other economic resources during the       N                                                     l
 construction period
 Avoiding damage to other underground services              Same as above.
 Limitingpower cuts ingeneral, anditparticular to           Same as above.
 critical consumers
 Limitingthe economic impactonconsumers o fthe
 voltage conversion from 127122OVto 4OOl23OV

 The monitoringof the measures will b e the responsibility of the MEM, assisted by the PMU.

 The social and environmental mitigation and compensation measures for the RuralElectrification (RE)
 component covers the elements discussed inthe table below. The implementationresponsibility i s
 indicated inthe second column.

 Table 2.2 Socialandenvironmentalmitigationmeasuresfor the RuralElectrificationcomponent

 Measure                                                    Implementationresponsibility
 Limitation o f damage to crops and natural habitats        Turnkey contractors supervised bythe EEC's
 along line routes and substation sites                     Engineering Consultants and EEC, with support
                                                            from the various specialist authorities, e.g. the
                                                            NationalMuseumand the NationalDemining
                                                            Anencv
~Avoiding cultural and archaeological sites                 Same as above.
 Avoiding areas that may be mined                           Same as above
 Securing optimumrights o f way                             EEC                                                I
 Compensation payments                                      EEC                                                I
 Raisingpublic awarenessto the availability o f
 micro-credits for income generating activities and
 self-help schemes householders may be able to
 engage infollowing electrification
 Raising awarenesso f the benefits o fusing electricity     MEMandEEC
                                                           ~


 for irrigationpumping
 Introduction o f energy services companies andor           MEM
 EEC billinglcollection agents inareas covered by
 the REcomponent

 3.        The monitoring of the mitigationmeasures will b e the responsibility of the MEM, with the
 assistance of EEC and with support from Zoba andVillage Administrators. The monitoringand
 evaluation of the project's social impact will be the responsibility o f the MEM,together with the Zoba
 andVillage administrations, assistedbythe PMU. EEC informed the mission that ithas already
 informedthe Zoba and Village Administrators inthe project areas of their responsibilities and that it will
 continue to engage indialogue with them duringthe project's implementation period.




                                                       - 49 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ERITREA ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTION AND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT

                                                                                                 Local
                      Project Cost By Component                                              US $million
Asmara distributionrehabilitation and expansion                                         I          1.97               27.60                  29.57
Rural electrification                                                                              2.88                10.90                 13.78
Rural Electrification Fund                                                                         0.00                  1.41                  1.41
Sector reform and institutional capacity building                                                  0.29                 4.05                   4.34
Environmentalmanagement                                                                            0.24                 0.19                   0.43
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                5.38               44.15                  49.53
  PhysicalContingencies                                                                            0.41                 4.09                   4.50
  Price Contingencies                                                                              1.56                  1.59                  3.15
                                                                                                                                                  ~~




                                         Total ProjectCost;                                        7.35               49.83                  57.18
                                 Total Financing Required                                          7.35                49.83                 57.18




                                                                                                  Local             Foreign                  Total
                        ProjectCost ByCategory                                                US$million          US$million             US$million
Supplyand Installation                                                                               6.75                  40.28                 47.03
Works                                                                                                0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Goods                                                                                                0.04                    1.65                   1.69
 Consultingservices                                                                                  0.34                    5.84                   6.18
Training                                                                                             0.07                    0.65                   0.72
 Incrementaloperating costs                                                                          0.07                    0.00                   0.07
 RE Fund                                                                                             0.00                    1.41                   1.41
 Env. compensation                                                                                   0.08                    0.00                   0.08
                                                        Total ProiectCost:
                                                                      * - - - - - - - ~I             7.35                  49.83                  57.18
                                                                                                              I
                                               Total Financing Required                  I           7.35     I            49.83      I           57.18    I
Identifiable taxes and duties are US$1.50 million and the total project cost, net o f taxes, i s US$55.68.
Therefore the project cost sharing ratio is 89.8%.
   1
    Identifiabletaxes and duties are 1.5 (US$m)and the total project cost, net o ftaxes, i s 55.7 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 89.77
   %oftotal project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                 - 50 -

                               Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
  ERITREA ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT



         [For projects with benefitsthat are measuredin monetaryterms]

                              PresentValue of Flows                                   Fiscal Impact
                              Economic          FinancialAnalysis'
                                Analysis                                        Taxes              Subsidies
Benefits:                             47.5                    34.5
 US$ million

Costs:                                35.1                    39.0                    0.7
 US$ million
Net Benefits:                          12.3                   - 4.5
 US$ million
IRR:                                   18.3                     9.7

e   The above flows relate to the Asmara distributionrehabilitation and expansion component, the largest
    component of the project.

e   Present values are discounted at 12%.

e   The value o feconomic benefits is higher than that o f financial benefits becausethe economic flows include the
    estimated consumer surplus and savings inresource costs, while the financial benefits derive from EEC's tariffs.

e   The financial costs are higher than the economic costs becausethe financial costs include contingencies and
    taxes. Also, the local cost component o f the economic cost is shadow priced.



'Ifthe differencebetweenthepresentvalue offinancial andeconomic flows islargeandcannotbeexplainedby
taxes andsubsidies, a briefexplanation ofthe difference is warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because o fcontrols on electricity tariffs."

Summaryof Benefits andCosts:




                                                      - 5 1 -

Summary of BenefitsandCosts:

A. Asmara DistributionRehabilitationandExpansionComponent

               Table4.1. Summary of CostsandBenefitsof the AsmaraDistribution
                                RehabilitationandExpansionComponent




                                          a0    am
                                         (00:  (am)     (148
                                          ao    am      3.70
                                          ao    am      608
           ao      la5                   (1.9  (am     1t62
           (14    Z 6                     a6    am      862
           3.1    35.7                   14.7   a71
           5.9    49.1                   29.5   1.42
           87     628                    447    215
           11.7   77.5                   589    283
           126    83.8                   624    3.m
           126    8a8                    624    3.m
           126    SI8                    624    3.m
           126    8 8                    624    3.m
           126    ma                     624    3.m
           126    a 8                    624    3.a)
           126     8 l S                 624    3.m
           126    ms                     624    3.m
           126    ma                     624    3.m
           126    SI8                    624    3.m
           126    Q8                     Q4     3.m
           126    a 8                    Q4     3.m
           126    Rl8                    624    3.m
           126    ma                     624    3.m
           126    ma                     624    3.m
           126    8l8                    624    3.m
           126    8a8                    624    3.00
           126    8a8                    624    3.m
           126    a 8                    624    3.m




MainAssumptions:

Economic Benejts

1.      The economic benefits of meeting incremental demand by the project are the sumof a number of
elements. The first i s the savings inresource cost from serving demand inthe "with the project" case
over the level of demand inthe "without project" case. The second is the value of the incremental
demandthat the project will serve.

2.      The analysis calculatedthe saving inresource cost as the avoidedfinancial cost of self


                                                    - 52 -

generation by existing industrial consumersusingback-up diesel generators, which i s estimated at US$
0.16kWh (operation, maintenance and fuel cost). According to the 2002 Pilot InvestmentClimate
Assessment, 43 percent o f firms inAsmara hadprivate generators. Inaddition to these cost savings from
fuel switching, there i s the avoided cost o f unplanned outages. EEC's consultants (PB Power, Ltd.)have
valued these outages at the cost o fUS$0.20/kWh. An additional benefit included inthe analysis i s the
savings indistribution operatingand maintenance (O&M) costs resulting from the difference between the
O&M costs o f operatingthe old systeminthe "without the project" case andthe O&M costs of operating
the modernequipment under the project.

3.       The analysis has conservativelyvaluedthe incrementalresidential demand served at the EEC
tariff since most o f themwill be Eritreansreturning from abroad now that the conflict situation has
subsided. The analysis further valuedthe incrementalindustrial demand served as the avoidedfinancial
cost of purchasingand operating individual diesel generators (US$O. 18kWh, including operationand
maintenance and investment).

4.       The project i s expected to meetthe increment o f demand up to 2013. Thereafter there is a need
for additional generation. Untilthen there i s sufficient capacity at the existing Hirgigo diesel power
station at Massawato meet the forecast demand o f the interconnected system untilthe peak demand
reachesabout 90 MW.

5.       Tables 4.2 and 4.3 below show the load forecast for the interconnected system and the Asmara
systemrespectively. Asmara presently accounts for approximately 60 percent o f the total electricity
demand inEritrea. Power demand inthe Asmara area has been growing at 6-7 percent over the past three
years. However, there are indications that this growth has slowed down somewhat since the beginning
o f 2004. Duringproject appraisal IDAand EEC, for power system planningpurposes, agreedto a
projected average growth o f4-5 percent for the next two years rising to 7-8 percent over the following
five years as the project makes morereliable supply available. Thisrate o f increase is reasonable inthe
historic context and compatible with the forecast annual GDP growth o f around 3 percent.

6.       The forecast for the total Eritrea system, includingboththe interconnected(ICs) and isolated
(SCS) systems shows growth similar to that o fthe Asmara system. A significant iteminthe load forecast
for the total Eritrean system i s the reduction inlosses expected with the completion o f the Asmara
distribution system's rehabilitation and expansion component. Total system losses are expected to
decrease from the current level o f 23 percent o f generation to 16.5 percent o f generation by 2008, due
principally to the Asmara distribution project. Additional distribution loss reductions will follow from
the completion o fthe ongoingMassawa distribution rehabilitation and expansion project.




                                                     - 53 -

                                                      Table42. LoadForecastfor BEA System- ICs aad SCS




                   I   I       I         I     I       I       I      I        I      I        I       I      I      I        I      I      I
                                                                                                                                            I       I
                                                                                                                                                    I




                   I                     I     I       I       I       I       I       I        I       I      I      I        I      I      I       I
   ICs S*rLi       I           I
                                                                   6 8 1                            6 8 1
                   I &&III 71%1    6 5 8 1 58148l  60648) 14kl             60961   6W1      60961          60961  60961    60961  60961  W o l   60961
                               I         I     I       I       I       I       I       I        I       I                                                6096
                                                                                                                      I        I      I              I


                                                          Table 4.3. Asmara Sales Forecast

For theYearEnded December31 I   1999     I 2000   I   2001  I   2002    I 2003    I  2004     I  2005    I 2006   I   2007    I    ZOOSl      20091    2010

IEnergy Sales(GWh)                                                                                                                                           I




 Large Industries           I                             17 I      17 I        18 I       18 I                            19 I                           20
 Total                      I   66,262   I 64,939 I   65,703    67,283     70,622  I   72,080 I   73,569 I  75,708I    77,972 I  80,283I   82,664     85,117
 Increment                  I            I (1,32311      764 II  1,580  I1  3,339  I    1,458 I    1,489 I   2,139I     2,264 I  2,311 I    2,381 II  2,452


Economic Cost

7.           The economic costs are the difference betweenpower system costs for meetingthe forecast
demand inAsmara with this project and the systemcosts without the project. They include capital
investment, incremental generation and O&M costs, the costs of connectingthe additional consumers,
and an allowance for the cost that consumers will incur for the uprating o f their supply voltage from 127
V to 220 V under the project as well as the cost oflightbulbsandsmall appliances (based onan average
o f 20 Nakfafor domestic consumers and 100Nakfafor commercial and industrial consumers). These
costs are relatively low. Consumers have been anticipatingthe change for some years and havebeen


                                                                 - 54 -

buyingappliances suitable for both 127V and220 V operation. All costs are inconstant 2004US dollar
prices. The local costs, which cover local labor and some civil works and amount to six percent of
investment costs, are shadow pricedat 80 percent o f the market cost. The cost analysis excludes all taxes
and duties but includes the costs o f environmental and social protection measures. As a result, the
estimated average incrementalcost o f the investments is approximatelyUS$O.O6lkWh (including fuel).

OtherAssumptions:

- OilPrices: US$ 30 per barrel(Arabian Gulfcrude oil) for the basecase.
- System losses, as a share ofnet generation, as follows:
                                            I Without theProiect I     With the Proiect    I
                       Generation:                     4%                    4%
                      Transmission:                  1% 2%
                                                        -                  1% 2%
                                                                               -
                 Distribution(Asmara):                18%                6.6% - 9.4%

- Current EECtariffs (As o f2003):

      -Domestic 8.2 USckWh
      -Commercial 10.3 USckWh
      -Industrial 6.3 USckWh

--- Expectedreal increaseintariffs duringproject's implementationperiod: 10%.
    Exchange rate: 19Nakfaper US$ 1
    Electricity tariffs are not subject to tax.

- Generationcosts as follows:

                                                     Hirgigo                Belesa
              Fuel:                                    IF0            IF080%/GO 20%
              Fuelcons(McWhg):                        0.21                   0.24
              FixedO&M
              (US$ millionp.a.):                      0.12                   0.07
              VariableO&M
              (US$kWh):                               0.24                   0.16

- Economic life of investments: 25 years.

Sensitivity analysis/ Switchingvalues of critical items:

   SensitivityAnalysis

8.         The results o f the sensitivity analysis, shown inTable 4.4, indicate that the project outcome i s
particularly sensitive to demand levels. For example, a 20 percent decreaseindemand eachyear from
2007 reduces the expected ERR from about 18percent to 13 percent.




                                                      - 55 -

                                     Table 4.4. Results of Sensitivity Analysis

  Sensitivity case                                         I EIRR
I Basecase                                                 I 18.3%                                 I



  Investmentcost +20%                                        15.8%
  Investment cost -20%                                       21.9%

  Tariffs(@ current (2003) level                             17.2%
  Tariffs+20%                                                19.6%

  Oilprice (@ 35 US$/bbl                                     18.5%
  Oilprice (@ 25 US$/bbl                                     18.1%


 Switching Values:

  9.        The NPV at 12% switches from positive to negative ifbenefits decline by 27 percent or
  investment costs increase by 36 percent.

  RiskAnalysis:

  10.       The quantitative riskanalysis o fthe Asmara distribution component assessedthe impact of
  uncertaintyinthe underlying assumptions andpredictions on the EIRRo f the component to deal with this
  uncertainty. The analysis assignedprobabilities to the values of the keyvariables. These variables and
  the probabilitiesof their future values emerged from the discussions betweenthe Bank and the Borrower.
  The modeling ofthe project's outcome usingariskanalysis programdetermined the expected EIRRand
  NPVwith their probability distributions, usinga "Monte Carlo" simulationprocess. Chart4.1 below
  shows the probability distribution of the expected EIRR. Table 4.5 shows the list of the key risk
  variables and the probabilities assigned to them.

  Chart4.1. FrequencyDistributionofEIRR


                      P ro bability dis tributio n o f EIRR


           100

           80
       =.,u
       E   60
       3

       h   40

           20

            0
             9.5%        13.5%      17.4%       21.4%     25.4%
                                        ERR (%)




                                                          - 56 -

The expected ERR i s 18.2 percent, which i s very close to the point estimate inthe base case. The
probability o f the ElRRbeing above 12percent, which i s the estimated opportunity cost o f capital in
Eritrea, i s 94 percent.



 Variable                    Formof ProbabilityDistribution Values

Investmentcost               Triangular                     -20%, Basecost, +20%
Loadforecast                 Triangular                     -20%, Base, +20% (from2007)
Tariffs                      Discrete, equalprobability     Presentlevel, +lo%, +20%
Crude oilprice               Discrete                       25 US$/bbl(30%), 30 US$/bbl(50%),
                                                            35 US$/bbl(20%)
 One year completiondelay                                    One year delayhodelay



B. RuralElectrification

Summary of BenefitsandCosts

11.      The rural electrification component covers the electrification o f villages infour separateareas--
Keren, inthe west o f Eritrea; Barentu, inthe southwest; Dekemhare, inthe east; and Adi Keihinthe
south. BothKerenandDekemhare are connected to the grid. Barentu and Adi Keihreceivepower from
local diesel power stations. The estimate o f the component's ERR is about 13 percent. The costhenefit
analysis shows that the ERRis highfor Keren and Dekemhare, marginal for Barentu, and low for Adi
Keih. The amount forecast irrigation pumpingloadineach area i s the main factor accounting for the
variations among the selected electrification areas. The following sections discuss the key elements o f
the analysis andTable 4.6 provides the details of the ERRcalculation.




                                                   - 57 -

      Table 4.6. Summary EconomicAnalysis of Keren,Barentu, Dekemhare,andAdi KeihREareas

                        2005   2001   2007   2001---- ------- -
                                                  200I 2011  2011  201:      2014  2015   2016  2017   2018   2019  2MU      2021  2023  2M4

TotalcosbUSt'000
Keren                    6?0   1,710  1,591 1,256  321  333   332   341       362   372    383   395    41'1   419   432      48    472   47
Barentu                  345     883   855    730  261  277   272   281       #10   310    38    331    342    354   366      392   405   419
Dekemhare                545   1,411  1,318 1,189  376  407   351   363       386   398    411   a 439         453   468      499   516   533
AdiKejh                  3Y7   1,051  1,042   904 3n    396   40'1  419       444   457    41    481    100    514   53       %2    580   W

Total:                  1,958  5,Rl  4,86   4,079133 1,412   1 3   1,404     1,492 1,538  1,586 1,636  1,68'1 1,740 1,795    1,911 19'13 /036

hementalbenefitsUSt'MI
Keren                       o    ni j53       829  869  910   940   971      1,035 lJ70   1,105 1,141  1,179  1,218 1,258    1,343 1387  1,433
Barentu                     o    in    248    396  426  457   473   489        524   542   561     581   mi    622   644      689   113   738
Dekemhare                   0 2 2 6    451    821  9 n 1,040 lp17  1,115     1,195 1 3 7  1,281 1,321  1J-74  1422  lA73     1,580 1,636 1594  1,755
AdiKejh                     0    In!    347   524  551   518  597    616       615   676    697    7m    ?42    166  7w        MI   868    8%

Total:                      0    78E  1,699 ZJ7l l"    2,98! 3,086 3,19fl    3,410 $525   354.5 3J68   3,896  4,028 416!     4,41  4605  4762

Netbenefits:                         -3,198 -1)M       1,512 i,ni 1J8t       1,918  1,987 m     2,ln   2,209  Pi 2,m         2 3   2,632 2,126



NPV@12%                $0394 rillion


NPY@O%                $ 2 M rillion

WR                     12.62

AIC investmtnt          0.092 $m

     MainAssumptions

     Consumption Patterns of Expected New Customers

      12.       The basis o f the economic analysis for the rural electrification component is a forecast o f demand
     agreed uponwith EEC, usingdata collectedbythe EEC, MEMand EEC'sconsultants, Aikicon Ltd. For
     each village to be electrified, the data covers the households; public institutions, such as schools,
     churches, mosques, clinics, etc; commercial and industrial enterprises, such as stores, bakeries, grain
     mills, workshops, etc.; and irrigation pumps.

      13.       The forecast assumes that about 28,500 residential consumers (60 percent o f existing
     households) plusabout 1,300 commercial, public sector, and small industrial and irrigation pumping
     consumers will connect to the network over a three-year period from 2006 to 2008. Thereafter, the
     forecast shows the number o f consumers growing at annual rates of between0.5 percent and 2.0 percent.
     The initial consumptiono fresidentialconsumers is estimated at 30 kwhper month, corresponding to
     lightingplusa smallradio. The demand forecast allows for amodest growth inconsumption- inthe



                                                                   - 58 -

range o f 2 to 2.5 percent per year - as households gradually acquire small electrical appliances and
possibly televisions.

14.      Public institutions are estimated to consume40 kwhpermonthmainly for lighting, with limited
use o f small refrigerators and computers (inschools). The analysis used conservative estimates of
monthly consumption for the various consumer categories. The estimate of the initial consumptiono f
commercial consumers is 200 kwhper month. Itrepresentsthe low end o f consumptionfor this
consumer category inEritrea, which is inthe range o f 200- 250 kwhper month. The estimate of initial
consumption for small industrial consumersi s 576 kwhper month. This consumptionlevel corresponds
to a load o f 3 kW, eight hours per day for six days per week and is below the average level for this
consumer category inEritrea. Finally, for irrigationpumping, the initial consumptioni s 288 kwhper
month correspondingto a 6 kW pump operating 12hours per week. Table 4.7 provides the detailed
assumptions for the demand forecast and table 4.8 provides the results o f the demand forecasts for the
rural electrification projects inall four areas.




                                                    - 59 -

                        Table 4.7. Assumptions for RELoadForecasts




Tariff                     Types of consumer
Domestic                   Residential
Commercial                  Shops, restaurants,hotels & fuel stations
SmallIndustry              Bakeries,flour mills, wood & metalworkshops, garages andtyre workshops
Small Industry (irrigation) Irrigationpumps
Public                      Mosques,churches,schools and clinics


                               Domestic        Public        Commercial   Industry    Irrigation  Total

          Keren                       9459             48             156          74         68    9805
         Barentu                      3997             19              97          27         89    4229
        Dekemhare                     8127             12              96          29        433     8697
        Adi Keih                      6964             20              87          14         55     7140

          Total                      28547             99             436        144         645   29871


                               Domestic        Public        Commercial   Industry    Irrigation

          Keren                       1.O%           0.5%            1.5%      1.5%         1.0%
         Barentu                      1.0%           0.5%            1.5%      1.5%        2.0%
        Dekemhare                     1.0%           0.5%            1.5%      l , 5 %     2.0%
        Adi Keih                      1.0%           0.5%            1.5%      1.5%         1.0%




                               Domestic        Public        Commercial   Industry    Irrigation

          Keren                       2.0%           2.0%            2.5%      2.5%        2.0%
         Barentu                      2.0%           2.0%            2.5%      2.5%        2.0%
        Dekemhare                     2.0%           2 0%            2.5%      2.5%        2.0%
         Adi Keih                     2.0%           2.0%            2.5%      2.5%        2.0%




Note: assumedirrigationpumps convertedprogressivelyfrom dieselto electric over 5 years 2006 to 2010
                                                                                       -




                                                        - 60 -

                Table 4.8 Detailed results of the demand forecastsfor the
                       ruralelectrification projects inall four areas

                  t
                  2007   2008   2009  2010   2011



                     3.12  464    4.84   501    1.21
                     13 2.15      2.B    2.44   2.1;
                     262   4.44   4.91   1.41   5.M
                     2 M   306    319    334    3 6

Total               9.16  1429   1524  1624   1637


Qnslutlers
Keren              6,831  9,178  9,M   10,004 10,101 10,207 10,310  10,414 10j19
BWtU               2,913  4J95   4217  4,319  4,364   4 4 9  4,454   a0     4j41
Dekemhare          5,810  8,124  8,ml  8,882  8,976   9,011  9,167   9,264  9,362
AdiKeih            4,971  1,118  7 3 1 7J84   7,358   7,432  7,106   7,582  1,61S

Tital             2@66 29/15    30p48 3&489 30$02    31J18 131,437 I31160132p86

Losses(%)          101%   10.2%  103%  10.4%  10.541  106%   10.7%   10.8%  ION



                     3.41   517   5.40   164    5.8:    6.02   6.22    6.4 6.6.
                     13 235       2.11   267    2.7     2.87   297     3.08   3.1!
                     2.91   494   5.41   604    6.3     6.48   6.71    6.95   7.1!
                     2B     3.34  3.Y    366    3.1 3.91       4.04    418    43

Total              10J1   1580   1688 18M     1861 1928      1995    2064 213

PeakDed@V)
Keren                088    132   1.38   1.44    1.4    1 3    1.19    1.64   16
BarmtU               0.40   063   0.68   0.72    0.1.   0.n 0.80       0.83   0.8
Dekemhare            0.84   1.43  1.58   1.74    18     1.87   1.94    2.W    20
AdiKeih              0.60   0.89  0.94   098     10     105    108     1.12   11

Total                                                  522     SA0    559    5 7

LoadFactor@)                                          421%   421%    421%   42.19




                                                     - 61 -

EconomicBene$ts

15.      The economic benefits o f the planned electrification arerelatedto the incremental demand
served by the project for different types of consumers and savings inresource cost compared to the
demand served inthe "without the project" case. The economic benefits for new residential consumers
result from calculations that take into consideration the observed costs o fmeetingthe affordable amounts
of substitutes for electricity (kerosene lighting) and the observed electricity consumptiono f similar
consumers at the relevant EECs tariff,

16.      The true shape o f the residential consumers'demand curve i s not observable. Therefore, the
analysis calculates the value of the benefitsas an area under an assumedsemi-log demand curve, inthe
form Q=A+B*lnP that passesthrough two hownpoints. The lower casepoint represents the
substitution o f electricity for existingmethods o f lighting and i s a saving inresource costs. Field
observations indicate that the majority ofnon-electrified households use kerosene for lighting. Their
kerosene usage is equivalent to about 7-8 kWh/month, which translates into an average cost o f around
US$0.24 per kwh. The upper case point i s the consumptionrate o fan electricity consumer (30
kWmonth) at the EECtariff equivalent to about US$O.O9 per kwh. This level of consumptionat the
forecast electricity tariff appears affordable at the estimated income levels. To estimate the affordability
of electricity, the analysis uses income levels from available survey data. The results show that the
monthly cost o f electricity for the average household would account for between3.5 and 11.5 percent o f
monthly householdincomes. This estimate indicates that the switch from other forms of energy to
electricity inmeetinghousehold energy needs i s likely to absorb a lower share o f monthly household
income. Surveys show that households inthe project areas currently spendbetween 10 and 20 percent o f
their incomes inmeetingtheir energy needs from other energy sources.

17.      The analysis values the benefits o f electricity for commercial, small industrial, and irrigation
consumers on the basis o f the avoided financial cost o f usingsmall localdiesel generators, resulting ina
resource saving. The analysis also considers the salvage value o f the old diesel driven irrigation pumps.
Surveys o fpump dealerships indicate that the diesel pumpshave a highsalvage value inEritrea, which i s
sufficient to cover the purchase o f an electric pump o f equivalent output.

18,      The estimated average benefit values per kwhfor each type o f consumer are US$ 0.16 per kwh
for residential consumers andpublic institutions andUS$0.24 per kwhfor commercial/small industrial
consumers and irrigation pumps.

Economic Costs

19.      The economlc costs cover the investmentandoperatingcosts ofthe projects inthe four areas.
They include the cost of householdwiring and the cost o fpurchasingelectric irrigation pumps. The local
currency portion o f the investment costs, which covers local labor and civil works and amounts to about
12percent o ftotal investment costs, is shadow priced at 80 percent o f the market cost. The analysis
excludes all taxes and duties but includes the costs o f environmental and social protectionmeasures. The
estimated average incrementalinvestment cost is approximately US$O.O9 per kwh,which i s reasonable
for electrification investment. The following are the assumptions for costs that the economic analysis
uses inthe EIRRcalculation. They are all inconstant 2004 U S dollar prices.

                                         Table 4.9. Economic Costs



                                                   - 62 -

    I CostItem                                        Value
      Annual O&M cost                                 1% of capitalinvestment

      Grid supply cost (KerenandDekemhare)            US$0.05 perkwh
      Isolatedgrid supplycost (BarentuandAdi Keih)    US$O.O9per kwh
      Distribution losses                             8% to 13%(with increasingdemand)
      Cost of electric irrigation pump                US$750

      Salvagevalue of dieselpump                      US$750

    [house           wiring                         I US$21                                                           I
    IIBase oil price forecast                         US$30per barrel                                                I
                                 ~


      Economiclife of investments                   II20vears
                                                      US$ 13.24million*
      Total investmentcost                            *This includes connection to thegrid, or isolated grid diesel
                                                      power station; MV and LVsystemsand consumer connection costs




SensitivityAnalysis/ SwitchingValues of CriticalItems:

20.      The results o fthe analysis, shown inTable 4.10, indicate that the project outcome i s most
sensitive to demand levels. A 20 percent decreaseindemand eachyear from 2007 onward takes the
EIRRsignificantly below 10percent. Therefore, as aprecaution, the assumptions usedto derivethe
forecast demand are conservative, as explained above.

SensitivityAnalysis

                                     Table 4.10. Resultsof SensitivityAnalysis

   Sensitivity case                                                                  EIlZR

   IBasecase                                              I                          12.6%                          I

   Demand-20% (from 2007)                                                            6.7%
   Demand+20% (from2007)                                                             17.7%

   Investmentcost +20%                                                               9.9%
   Investmentcost-20%                                                                16.3%

   Tariffs @ current (2003) level                                                    9.7%
   Tariffs +20%                                                                      15.3%

   Oilprice @ 35 US$/bbl                                                             10.7%
   Oil price@ 25 US$/bbl                                                             14.1%

Switching Value:

21.      The NPV @ 12% switches from positive to negative ifbenefits are 2.1% lower or ifinvestment
costs are 2.1% higher.

C. FiscalImpact


                                                    - 63 -

22.       The analysis shows a twofold impact of the Asmara rehabilitation and expansion component on
the Government finances. First,the Government will receive an increase intax revenues resulting from
the power sector expansion that the project makespossible. Second, the Government will have an
incremental financial gain from the spreadbetween the terms o f its payments on the IDA credit and those
o f its re-lending o f the proceeds from the Credit to EEC.

23.       The tax revenues relevant to the analysis are EEC's incremental income taxes and the incremental
taxes on the fuel that the company uses to generatepower. EEC pays about 40 percent of its income as
income tax but inrecent years the company has been operating at a loss. As a result o f the project, EEC
i s expected to start makingprofits from FY2006; hence, the Government will earn tax revenue from EEC
from that year onwards. However, since EEC has a very low share of equity compared to its debt, the
analysis assumes that the Government will not be charging dividends on EEC's income. Instead, it will
allow EEC to retain its full net income, after taxes, for investments insystem improvements. Revenue
from fuel taxes will increase becauseEEC will need larger amounts o f fuel to generatemore power
requiredas a result of electricity access expansion and economic recovery. The calculation of fuel taxes
assumes a $30/bbl price o f crude oil andretains the present tax structure inthe fuel price. The
Government will, however, lose some tax revenue on account o f customs duty against the goods that
EEC will import for the project. Overall, the net present value o fthe tax income generatedby the
project, over a 40 year period, comes to about US$ 17million.

24.       Another source o f fiscal revenue i s the spreadbetween the IDA credit terms to the Government
and the re-lendingterms from Government to EEC. The present value o f the cost o f the IDA credit to the
Government is about US$4.1 million, based onthe annual service charge of 0.75 percent. The
Government will re-lend the same amount to EECat a 3.5 percent interest rate for 20 years, with a
five-year grace period. The present value o f the debt service income from EEC comes to about US$ 14
million. Insum, the Government will earn, innet present value terms, about US$ 10 million onthe
spread.

25.       The total net present value of the revenue accruingto the Governmenton account ofthe IDA
credit i s about US$26.9 million, which it can use for social programs. The table below shows the
calculation of the fiscal impact.


Table 4.11. FiscalImpact of Asmara rehabilitation and expansion component




                                                   - 64 -

                                                            17.1 0.00 0.00 0.32 1.27 1.63 216     297   297   297 297
                                                             0.0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00 0.00
                                                             0.4 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04    0.03  0.03  0.03 0.03
                                                            4.5 4.01 -0.08 -0.14 4.26 -0.23 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00 0.00
                                                            17.0 0.04 4.03 0.22 1.04 1.47 219     3.00  3.00  3.00 3.00


                                                            4.3 4.03 4.15 4.12 -0.05 0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00 0.00
                                                            -1.2 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 -0.26   -0.26 -0.22 -0.14 0.00
                                                            -26 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00     0.00  -0.70 -1.39 -1.39
                                                             3.4 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.23     1.12 0.26  0.00 0.00
                                                            10.6 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 245     245   245   0.00 0.00
                                                             9.9 -0.03 -0.15 -0.12 4.05 0.00 3.40 3.31   1.79 -1.53 -1.39

N e t r e u e c r r e d t h e G r m m t t l e M -           2i9 0.01 -0.18 0.11 0.99 1.47 5.58     6.31  4.79  1.47 1.61




                                                     - 65 -

                                     Annex 5: FinancialSummary
ERITREA: ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT
Background

1.       After independence in 1993 the Eritrea Electric Authority (EEA) took over the operation of the
erstwhile Eritreanbrancho f the EthiopianLight and Power Authority (EELPA) and started its own
operation. Untilrecently, the EEAhas beendesignated as the sole electricity provider inEritrea. Ithas
been operating as a public agency under the Ministryof Energy andMines (MEM)with the Minister o f
Energy and Mines as the Chairman o f its Boardo f Directors. Under this framework, for the past years,
the Governmenthas exercised tight control over EEA's s investment and financing decisions.

2.       EEAhasbeenoperating at a loss due inpart to alegacy o finvestment decisionbasedon
implementing government policies rather than a focus on cost recovery andthe financial sustainability of
the utility. However, this situation has begun to change. The EritreanElectricity Corporation
EstablishmentProclamationof May 2004 hadtransformed the EEA into the Eritrean Electricity
Corporation (EEC). Furthermore, the new electricity Proclamation, also o f May 2004, allows other
public or private entities to generate, transmit and distributeelectricity. The financial analysis and
recommendations inthis report are based on this move towards a competitive electric power sector and
the relatedneed for improvements to EEC'scommercial operations.

Electricity Coverage andRuralAccess

3.       Access to gridelectricity inEritrea i s low, especially outside o f Asmara. However, EEC i s
constrained in expanding access to rural arrears because of lower customer density, smaller electricity
demandper customer, and highcost o f supply. These factors make rural electrification a financially
unfeasible scheme for EEC. Therefore, Government support for expandingrural access i s an essential
inputfor increasingthe income generation capacityofvillages away fromthe centralmetropolitanarea.

EEA's OperationalPerformance

4.       EEC's total electricity sales increased from 193 GWhinFY2002 to 206 GWhinFY2003. To
supply 206 GWhofenergy in2003, EEChadto generateabout 267 GWhinFY2003 due to system
losses. These losseshave gradually increased over the years and amounted to 23% o f net generation in
FY2003. Sales indomestic and small industrialcategory increasedby 10% and 14% respectivelyin
FY2003, while sales to big industries increasedby only 4%. Incontrast, sales to medium industries
declinedby 11%. Domestic consumers have the largest share inEEC sales - about 38% o f total.
Commercial consumershave the second largest share. This category o f consumers hasnearly doubledits
share intotal electricity sales, increasing from only about 16% inFY 2000 to about 30% inFY 2003.

5.       EEC's largest generating plant i s the Hirgigo thermal plant inMassawa. Its utilization i s low
currently -with only about 26% o f its installed capacity usedto meet demand. Its utilization will,
however, increase gradually as the system demand grows. The Hirgigoplant consists o f four units, each
with a generation capacity o f 22.4 MW, resultingin89.6 MW o ftotal capacity installed. The individual
unitsize oftheplant is very large comparedto the system'speakdemand ofabout 46 MW. The reserve
plant marginrequiredto cover forced andplannedoutages at Hirgigo is therefore muchhigher than it
would have beenhadthe units size been, say, 12MW. The larger size o f the units limits the operating
regime and efficiency of EEC. Currently, at peak times duringthe day, EEC i s only able to operate two
units at Hirgigo, and has to rely on the less efficient plant at Belesa (Asmara) to meet base load demand.



                                                  - 66 -

EEC'sFinancialPerformance

6.       EEC's electricity tariff was revisedupwards inMarch2003, two years after itwas previously
revised inMarch 2001. This revisionhad a positive impact on EEC'srevenues. Duringthis period the
tariff increase for various customer categories ranged from 11%to 46% and the average billing rate
increased to about NFA 1SOkWh from its previous level o fNFA 1.2kWh.

7.       EEChasnotyet closedits books ofaccountsfor FY2003. However, there is some unaudited
information available on EEC's sales, tariff, billedrevenue, energy generation, fuel cost, etc. Basedon
this information, EEC's overall revenue increasedby 33% inFY 2003 compared to the revenue level in
FY2002. Total billingfor energyproducedinFY2003 wasNFA308mor NFA77mhigherthan inthe
previous year. Consumers from the commercial category contributedthe most to EEC's revenue (NFA
119m) while domestic consumers were the secondlargest contributor (NFA 106m). Onthe cost side,
EEChas experienced a steepincrease inits fuel price. Basedon fuel consumedfor all power plants, in
terms o f cost and volume, EEA's average cost for Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) increased from NFA 2.55/ltr in
FY2002 to NFA 3.08 Ltr inFY2003. Gasoilprice also increased fromNFA4.07/ltr inFY2002 to
NFA 5.77/ltr inFY2003. This increase infuel pricehadan adverse impact onEEC's generation cost.

                          Table 5.1. EECFinancialPerformanceBasedon AuditedData

             portheYearEndedDecember31           I 1998  I 1999   I 2000   I 2001    I 2002    1
             Total Power Sold (GWH)               145.37  158.51    171.99   175.93    193.35
             System Loss ("A)                      18%     23%       14%     22%        22%
             Increase inSales Growth (%)                    9%       9%       2%        10%

             Avg Billing Rate (NFAlkWh)            0.83    0.83      1.15     1.20      1.19
             Increase inBillingRate ("A)                    -I%40%            4%         0%
             Avg Billing Rate (USCentskWh)         8.60    8.52     11.21     8.51      8.31
              ncreaseinBillingRate ("A)                  I  -1%      32%   I -24%    I  -2%

             Operating Income (MillNFA)            19.97   19.36    24.83    56.55     17.82
             Net Income (MillNFA)                  (133)    6.41     8.52     0.45      4.66




             DebtService Coverage Ratio            22.38   2.72      0.56     4.59      1.39
             Self Financing Ratio (YO)             14%      10%     -evSF      9%        2%



 8.      Table 5.1. shows EEC's financial performance based on audited data for the years 1998 to 2002.
 The data shows that electricity sales grew by about 9% per annumbetween 1998 and 2000. The average
 tariff increased from 0.83 NFAkWhin 1999to 1.15 NFA/kWhin2000. This was an increase o f about
 40% to recover the currency fluctuation losses and the increase infuel cost. The tariff then increasedto
 NFA 1.2kWh inFY 2001 andwas revisedlater inFY2003. InFY 1998, EECmade a loss ofNFA 1.33


                                                   - 67 -

million. InFY 1999 and inFY 2000 the company made profits o f about NFA 6.41 million andNFA
8.52 millionrespectively. EEC'sprofitability declinedinlater years and inFY 2002 its net income was
NFA4.66 million. However, these profits areoverestimated as the utilityisnot chargingthe foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuation loss o f its closed project (Beleza power plant) as a cost on its income
statement. Instead, it i s making an adjustment directly inthe balance sheet. This accountingtreatment
i s inconsistent with intemational standards o f accounting for foreign exchangelosses. The result i s an
overstatement of the company's profits, which results inhigher taxation.

9        A major component inEEC'scosts is importedfuel. The increasingfuel costshave adversely
affectedthe company's profitability. Also, 80% o f the company's profit i s transferred as dividend to the
Government and only 20% remains ina reserve fund. This provides less flexibility for EEC inthe
effective management o f its finances. However, from FY2005 onwards, the Govemment has agreedto
let EECretain a larger portion o fthe dividendinits reserve fundfor future investments.

CapitalStructure

10.      EEChas a highdebt ratio. InFY2000, its assetswere financedbyabout 90 percent debt, which
increasedto about 93% inFY 2002. While this could be acceptable giventhat EEC i s a new public
entity, the company shouldbe investingany profit it makes inits own development rather than
distributingit as dividends, before itattains a stable capital structure.

Tariff Structure

11.      Inorder to offset increasingfuelprices, which constitutemorethan50percent ofEEA's
operatingcosts, the Govemment raisedthe tariff by about 30% inMarch2003. As a result, the average
tariff i s now equivalent to about U S cents 9 per kwh. Also, EEC's collections efficiency i s currently
satisfactory, with equivalent of less than two months o f salesrevenue inarrears.

Analysisof FY2002 AuditedFinancialStatements

 12.     The latest audited financial statementsfor EEC are for FY 2002. The following sections discuss
the key aspectso f the company's financial performance.

 13.     Revenue. The company's total revenue recorded inFY 2002 was about NFA 268m, about 10%
higher than inthe previous year. EEC's records show that inFY 2002 total billedenergy including
service charge was about NFA 235m. Thus, about NFA 33m (12%) o f revenue came from other sources
of income. The audit report, however, provides no additional explanation or breakdown o f this other
income. DuringnegotiationsEEC agreedto provide proper disclosure o f its income inits future
financial statements.

14.      Operating Costs. EEC's operatingcosts inFY 2002 (NFA 240m) were much higherthan inFY
2001 (NFAl87m). The mainreason for this increase was that three of the Hirgigo Power Plant's units
became operational inthat fiscal year. On average, EEC charges about 7% o f its total fixed assets value
as depreciation and inFY 2002 depreciationcost was about NFA 29m. However, while the three units
became operational inFY2002, they were recorded insteadunder construction inprogress. This
treatment of the assets underestimates EEC's depreciation cost becausethe company receivedthe
revenue from the energy sales generatedbythe three completed unitswithout acknowledging their
depreciation cost. Thus the operating profit recordedby EEC for FY2002 is an overestimation. During
negotiations, EEC agreed to use proper reporting standards inits future financial statements.



                                               - 68 -

15.    Financial Costs. EEC does not service its debts entirely. The notes to the audit report on its
loans and their movements are not complete and it i s difficult to get an idea onhow muchinterest EEC
has accrued andhowmuchit has paid. Information on losses that EEChas incurreddue to foreign
currency fluctuations i s also not clearly spelled out inits reports. Basedon the auditedreport, EEC
incurred a foreign currency loss o fNFA 13minFY 2002. After adjusting for this currency loss, some
interest payments, and extra ordinary items, EEC made a net profit o fNFA 7.32m. EECpaid income
taxes of about NFA 2.67m (or around 36% o f its profits) and endedits income statement with a net
balance ofNFA4.66m. However, EECwas allowed to retain only 20% (NFA 0.93m) o f this profit in
its general reserve fund and the rest, about 80% was recordedas dividendpayable to govemment.

FinancialRestructuring

16.    The idle capacity ofthe HirgigoPower Plant is the mainreason for the bleakprojection ofEEC's
financial performanceduring2003-2005. The unused capacity results indepreciation costs from its
asset base, and interest andprincipal repayment costs from the loans Government has taken to finance it.
When these assets are not inuse EEChasno revenue from them to offset the costs. To improve EEC's
future financial situation and to adequately reflect the company's assets and liabilities on the basis of
their utilization, the Government has recently restructuredEEC's financial accounts.

17.     As aresult o fthe restructuring, since EECisutilizingonly 30% ofthe Hirgigopower plant, the
Government will take on 70% o f the Hirgigo Power Plant cost from EEC's balance sheet for the period
that the company i s not utilizingthat portion o f the plant. This will relieve EEC from counting the
depreciation cost, interest expense, and principal payments associatedwith these assets inits balance
sheet untilthey are inuse. Based onthe demand growth assumptions for the project, EEC will utilize
about 40% of the Hirgigo Power Plant capacity inFY 2008 and Government would then retum 10% o f
Hirgigo assets and liabilities to EEC's balance sheet. Fromthis year onwards, EEC will be able to
generateenough resources from its operationto be ina position to annually take on an additional 10%
o f Hirgigo costs inits balance sheet.

18.     Table 5.2 shows EEC's financial performanceindicators, taking into account the aforementioned
financial restructuring. The Government considers this restructuring reasonable, as the Govemment
made investment decision for the four units o f Hirgigopower plant basedon highdemand growth
projections following good macro-economic performance in 1992-1997. Inthe aftermath o f the conflict
situation that took place from 1998 until2000 actual demand grew at a much lower pace.

19.     Theproposedrestructuring ofEEC's assets and liabilities, coupledwith tariff increases and
efficiency improvements, will significantly improve EEC's financial performance. With this
restructuring, EEC is likely to start making operating profits from FY 2004 onwards. FromFY2006, it
would start makingnetprofits. The company's equity would become positive from FY 2008 and its debt
to equity ratio would improve slowly from FY 2008 onwards. EEC would also be able to maintain a
sound debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) o f 1.3 or higherfrom FY2006 onwards.

                       Table 5.2. Projected FinancialPerformance of EEC
                                  After Financial Restructuring
                            For the Period of FY 2003 to FY 2010


For the Year EndedDecember311 2003    I 2004    I 2005   I  2006   I  2007  I 2008 2009 2010
                                                                                   I     I      I
Total Power Sold (GWH)          205.76 214.76    224.23    239.60    256.87 276.54 297.76 319.66
System Loss (%)                  23%    24%        24%      22%       19%     17%   17%    17%
Increase inSales Growth("h)       6%     4%        4%        7%       7%      8%    8%     7%




Returnon Equity ("h)             -52% -ev Equity-ev Equity-ev Equity-evEquity 325% 214% 161%
Returnon Assets ("h)             -3.9% -86.3%     -3.4%     1.1%      3.8%    3.3% 3.5% 4.1%
Operating Ratio                   1.07  0.99       0.89      0.82     0.76    0.72  0.69   0.67

Accounts Receivable (days)       63.46  61.74     59.39     57.66     56.35   55.25 54.33 53.58
Current Ratio                     0.67  0.76       0.77      0.78     0.92    1.00  0.97   0.97
Debt:Debt & Equity Ratio (%)      0.98   1.92      1.40      1.20     1.05    0.95  0.93   0.90

Debt Service Coverage Ratio       0.32  0.67       1.10      1.36     1.86    1.74  1.83   1.84
SelfFinancing Ratio ("h)        -evSF   98%       -evSF      6%       21%     21%   46%    59%




                                        - 69 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
ERITREA: ERITREAPOWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT

Procurement

A.       General

1.       The State ofEritreawas formally established inthe year 1993. Its Constitutionwas ratified by
the ConstituentAssembly inMay 1997, buthasnotbeenimplementedto date. The Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) carried out by the Bank and sent to the Government in June 2002 points out
that no legislation concerning procurement exists. Ministryo f Finance Directives and Ministryof
Infrastructure's "Procedures for Carrying out BuildingConstruction Programs" regulate public
procurementfor goods and services andthe procurement o f works respectively. Both directives are
provisional and not fully comprehensive. The drafting of a Procurement Code and national standard
documents is one o fthe main priorities recommendedby the CPAR.

2.       Procurement for the proposed project. Procurement for the proposed project would be carried
out inaccordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA
Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection andEmployment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004, andthe provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general
description of various items under different expenditure category are described below and summarized in
Table A. For each contract to be financed by the CreditIGrant, the differentprocurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements,
and time frame are agreedbetweenthe Borrower andthe Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan.
Bank standard bid documents (SBD) for procurement of goods andworks and standard Request o f
Proposal(RFP) for consulting services will be usedfor major ICB / LIBcontracts and large assignments.
Simplified documentation for NCB and shoppingmay be usedfor small contracts.

3.       Packagingof contracts. The project lends itself to large "packaging" giventhe large quantities
o f electrical and distribution items to be procured for the project's maincomponents. The designo f the
project will require the main contractors to provide and install most of the major electrical equipment
under supply and installationcontracts. Ingeneral, the largest procurement actionunderthe project will
be the selection o f major electrical contractors to carry out the supply, delivery, and installation of
electrical equipment for the Asmara andthe ruralelectrification components. Construction and
installationworks will be packaged, whenever feasible, into contracts o f over US$500,000. Inpacking
them inthis way into larger contracts will makethemmore attractive to internationalandeven to larger
national contractors. Goods such as miscellaneous mechanicaland electrical equipment, office
equipment, computers andvehicles will bebulkedto the extent possible into larger packagesof at least
US$250,000 to make them more attractive to bidders. These contracts may be too small to be o f interest
to foreign bidders, but would probably attract bidsfrom larger national contractors (Category 1under the
Ministryo fPublic Works' register).

Procurement of Works

4.       International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for large tenders such as the "supply and
installation" contracts for the Asmara distribution rehabilitation andexpansion and the rural
electrification components, and all other contracts above the monetary threshold o fUS$500,000.
Contracts will be advertised at the start o fthe project inDevelopment Business through a General
Procurement Notice (GPN) to inform contractors o f work opportunities. National Competitive Bidding



                                                   - 70 -

WCB) may be usedfor the procurement of small rehabilitation and constructionworks, as required.
Smaller civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$75,000 may be procured(as an alternative to
NCB) under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from at least
three qualified local contractors inresponseto a written invitation statingthe basic design, specifications
and proposed completion time. "Force account" is unlikelyto be usedinthe project, though it is not
excluded, inparticular for works inareas with unacceptable risks for the contractors such as minefields
and other militaryhazards.

Procurement of Goods

5.      Procurement of goods include itemsto be imported such as electrical and mechanicalequipment,
and spare parts. Part o f this equipment will be supplied and installed by the major contractors under the
Asmara distribution rehabilitationand the ruralelectrification contracts. Other imported itemsneeded
for the project will be packaged into contracts of US$250,000 and more and advertised though
DevelopmentBusiness. International CompetitiveBidding (ICB) procurement methodwill be usedto
procure individual contracts for goods and equipment exceeding US$250,000 and other contracts for
goods not locally manufactured. Limited International Bidding (LIB)may be used, subject to prior
approval by the Bank, for individual contracts below US$250,000 for specialized items producedby only
a small number o f foreign suppliers. Contracts for locally available goods that are estimated to cost less
than US$250,000 will be procuredthrough National CompetitiveBidding (NCB) procedures. Goods
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 will be procuredthrough Shoppingby comparing at least three
price quotations from qualified suppliers. Inaddition, the International Agency Procurement Services
Office (IAPSO) o fthe UnitedNations may be usedfor the purchase o fa limitednumber o f vehicles and
office equipment needed at the start o f the Program, as an alternative to other procurement methods, and
for purchase o f goods whose delivery cannot be timedto coincide with larger packages. Direct
contracting may be usedincase o f emergency situations such as drought or epidemic and other situations
consistent with section 3.7 o f the Procurement Guidelines. Direct contracting is, however, always subject
to the Bank's prior review.

ConsultinP Services, including Traininv and Service Deliverv Contracts

6.       Procurement o f consulting services will follow IDA Guidelines on the Selection and
Employment o f Consultants, April 2004 edition. Consultingcontracts for which foreign expertise will be
needed will be advertised inDevelopment Business, and, whenever needed, on specialized magazinesto
attract expression of interest and allow for the preparation of shortlists. The preferred selection method
for the selection o f consulting firms will be the Quality and Cost-BasedSelection(QCBS), which will be
used for all services contracts with a cost estimate higher than US$lOO,OOO. The QCBS method is
described insection 11o fthe Bank' Consultants Guidelines and allows for competition bothat technical
and price level.

7.       Selection methods other than QCBS may be usedfor contracts below the monetary threshold o f
US$lOO,OOO. Ofthese, the "Least cost selection" (LCS) will preferably be used for auditing assignments
since they have well-defined TOR and clearly established qualifications and professionalstandards. The
LCSmethodmay also be used for simple engineering design following the procedures stated insection
3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines. Under the LCS method, the contract may be awarded to the technically
qualified firm, which has offered the most competitive price. The Fixed Budget (FBS) selection
procedure may also be usedfor low value, repetitive contracts such as those for training and capacity
buildingwhen their cost is well-known. Under the fixedbudget selection procedure, the Consultant who
has submitted the highest ranked technical proposal, will be selected and invited to negotiate the contract.
The majority o fthe smaller value contracts estimated to cost less thanUS$lOO,OOO will, however, be


                                               - 71 -

awarded through the Qualijkations (CQ) selection methoddescribed insection 3.7 o fthe Consultants
Guidelines. The method is basedon a comparison of the qualifications of the shortlisted firms. The firm
evaluated as the most qualified will be askedto submit a combinedtechnical and financial proposal and
then invitedto negotiate the contract. The CQ methodhas proveduseful inEritrea for contracts where
national expertise is adequate to the scope o fthe assignmentssuch as for supervision o f civil works and
access roads, drilling operations, small auditing and routine design assignments. Sole source may be
considered for small value contracts of US$25,000, subject to the Bank's prior approval.

8.       Commercial practices, subject to prior review by IDA, may be usedfor supply, installation, and
service delivery contracts awardedthrough the Rural Electrification Fund.

9.       Finally, shortlists for contracts o f an estimated value o f less than US$lOO,OOO may include only
national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultants Guidelines.

IndividualConsultinP Contracts

10.      Recruitment of individual consultants will follow procedures consistent with PartV, sections 5.1
to 5.4 o f the Consultants Guidelines andwill be basedon a comparison o fthe qualifications (education,
experience, availability etc.) of the consultants. Individual consultants may be recruited on a sole source
basis inexceptional cases with the prior approval o fthe Bank such as (a) tasks which are a continuation
o f previous work that the consultant has carried out and for which the consultant was selected
competitively; (b) emergency situations; and (c) when the consultant is considered the only expert
qualified for the assignment - refer to Paragraph 3.10 o fthe Consultants Guidelines.

ODerationalCosts

11.      Other sundry items, office rental and utilities, and other project implementationrelatedexpenses,
which would be financed by the project would be procuredusingthe implementingagency's
administrative procedures which were reviewedand found acceptable to the Bank. The Bank will
finance a total o f US$70,000 over the life o fthe project.

Procurementmethods (TableA)

Table A. ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
r
(Amounts in US$ million)


                            (Procurement Method1)




                                      - 73 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review:

12.     The prior review thresholdsunder the Programare statedinTable B below andmay be updated
after the first year ofthe Program, basedon Programperformance.

                    Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'

                                    ContractValue                                       ContractsSubjectto
                                     Threshold                  Procurement                 Prior Review
  ExpenditureCategory              (US$ thousands)                Method                   (US$ millions)
1.Works                                   >500                      ICB                     All contracts
and "Supply and
Installation"                              4 0 0                   NCB                      Postreview

                                           <75                "Small works" and             Post review
                                                            Community Participation
2. Goods                                   >250                     ICB                Allcontractsfor ICB and
                                          (<250)                     LIB                        LIB

                                           <250                     NCB                     Postreview

                                           4 0                    Shopping                   Postreview
3. Services                                >loo                    QCBS                          All
   (a) Firms                               4 0 0                     CQ                       TOR only
                                           <25                   Sole Source                     All


   (b) Individuals                         >50                       IC                          All
                                           <50                       IC               1       TORonly
                                           <25                   Sole Source                     All
4. Training                     International, national,          Various                       TORS
                                         twinning
6. Goods,works,                             All             Commercialpractices, etc.            All
service delivery
contractsunder RE
Fund
                          ____    ~    ~~    ~~     ~




                  Total value of contractssubjectto prior review: $45 million, about 90% oftotal IDA.
                           Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment: Average
     Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 12months
                                                                      (includes special procurementsupervision
                                                                      for post-review/audits)

B.       Assessmentof the implementingagencies' capacity to implementprocurement

13.      Procurementactivities will be carried out by the EritreanElectric Corporation (EEC) andthe
MinistryofEnergyandMines (only for partofthe sector reform andinstitutional capacitybuilding
component). EEC'sProject ManagementUnitis staffed by a Project Manager assistedby other EEC staff
andtwo international consulting companies with procurementexperience.



                                                    - 74 -

14.       An assessmentofthe capacity ofthe ImplementingAgencies to implementprocurement actions
for the project has beencarried out by Francesco Sarno, consultant, former BankLead Procurement
Specialist, duringpre-appraisal inOctober 2003 and inFebruary 2004. The assessment reviewedthe
organizational structure for implementingthe project andthe interaction betweenthe project's staff
responsible for EEC's Procurement Officer and the Ministry's relevant centralunit for administration and
finance. The assessment further concluded that the presence o f the experienced consulting firms and
EEC's andthe Ministry'sprevious procurement experience they have gained inimplementingprojects
financed by other donors and the contracts financed under the Project Preparation Advance, facilitate the
execution o fthe project activities. The design and supervision contracts with the international consultants
include transmission of skills through on-the-job training of EEC staff.

15.       The issues/risks concerning the procurement component for implementationofthe project have
been identifiedand include:

(a) weak capacity for procurement planning;
(b) lack o f experiencedprocurement staff; and
(c) lack o f experience inproject coordination.

 The corrective measures, which have beenagreed are:

(a) recruitment o f one international consulting firm for the design and management o fthe Asmara
   rehabilitation andexpansion component (completed inJanuary 2004);
(b) recruitment of another internationalconsulting firm for the design and managementofthe rural
   electrification component (completed inJanuary 2004); and
(c) procurement training for EEC and Ministryo f Energy and Minesstaff.

The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE.

C.        ProcurementPlan

16.       The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation, which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has beenagreedbetween the Borrower and
the Project Team on May 22,2004, and is available at EEC's project office inAsmara. Itwill also be
available inthe project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be
updated inagreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D.        FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

17.       Inadditionto the prior reviewsupervisionto becarriedout from the Bank's offices, the capacity
assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommended one supervisionmission every twelve months
to visit the field to carry out post review o f procurement actions.




                                                 - 75 -

                                               Attachment 1

Details of the Procurement Arrangement involving InternationalCompetition.

1.       Goods andworks and nonconsulting services
(a) List of contract packages which will be procured followingICB andDirect contracting


   Rei.       ('ontract        Estimated Procurement    P-Q     Doatrstie    Review        Expcrttrl    Expntrd
   tia       (Oewriptiou)       cost       Meibod               Pr&"-*      by Bank       Bid-Opesing  Completion
                                                                (yeduo)   (Prior / Post)     Datr
            Asmara Power                    ICB        YES        NO        PRIOR         11/26/2004    Mid-2008
              Distribution
            Rehabilitation
          RuralElectrification              ICB         NO       YES        PRIOR         09/30/2004    Mid-2007
                      1)
          RuralElectrification              ICB         NO       YES        PRIOR         09/30/2004    Mid-2007
               (kea2)

1           M.I.S. for EEC                  ICB         NO        NO        PRIOR         08/31/2005    Mid-2006




2.       Consulting Services




(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost US$l00,000 per contract (firms), US$50,000 (individual) and
all Single Source selection o f consultants will be subject to prior review bythe Bank.
(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely of national
consultants inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.
I\
 Thresholds generallydiffer by country andproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacityto Implement
 Procurement"andcontactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                              - 76 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
  ERITREA: ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

1.       This report is the result ofa reviewoffinancial managementarrangements carriedout on a
number o f occasions beginninginJune/July 2001 and culminating inthe appraisal mission carried out in
April 2004. Other reviewmissions were carriedout inOctober 2003 andFebruary 2004. The scopeo fthe
work has been set out inthe Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World
Bank-Financed Projects - Guidelines to Staff issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June

the project implementing agencies are requiredto maintainfinancial management systems-including
30,2001. Under the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 with respect to projects financed by the Bank,the borrower and

accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems-adequate to ensure that they can provide the Bank
with accurate andtimely information regardingproject resourcesandexpenditures. The guidelines issued
by the Bank's Operations Policy and Country Services regardingFinancial Monitoring Reports (FMfi)
require adequate financial management arrangements, including the ability to produce timely FMRs, to
be inplace by credit effectiveness.

2.       An initial financial managementreview was carriedout inJune/July 2001 andthe conclusion
thenwas that both inherentand control risks existedthat may have implications for efficiency,
effectiveness, and accountability inthe use of project resources. Specific weaknesseswere identifiedand
summarized ina draft actionplanto complete a series of activities to addressthe noted weaknesses. Once
this time-bound action planwas carried out successfully, the two major implementingagencies
associatedwith the project would have inplace financial management systems that would be able to
properly account for project resources, as well as produce the requiredlevel o f financial management
reports ina timely fashion.

3.       The October 2003 missionhadconfirmedthat most o fthe issues that were identifiedinthe 2001
reviewhadnot been addressed inboththe two institutions that will be usedto implementthe project, the
EritreaElectric Authority (EEA) andthe Department o f Energy o fthe Ministryo f Energy andMines
(MEM).As the projectprogressedto appraisal, andinorder to helpthe government focus on immediate
critical issues, a distinction was made between those financial management arrangements requiredto
meet the Bank's minimumrequirements and which neededto be attended to immediately, and those that
will specifically be addressedunderthe project to improve the accountingpractices especially o fthe
EEA.

4.        The general observations are that boththe EEA and MEMhave accountingsystems that allow
for proper recordingo f financial transactions, with adequate controls for preparationand approval o f
transactions. The accounting departments o f both institutions are headed by qualified accountants with
several years o f experience, and both institutions have centralizedaccounting functions. The management
o fthe EEA had adequately addressed a number of issues on financial management which were identified
and agreedupon to meet the Bank's minimumrequirements. EEA has made progress inthe area o f
financial management and a number o f issues which had been identified and agreed uponto meet the
Bank`s minimumrequirements have beencompleted. The audit reports for the years endedDecember 31,
2001 and December 31,2002 have beenfinalized and copies submittedto the Bank.Inthe meantime,
progress on the accumulated backlog continues with the draft financial statements for the year ended
December 31,2003 expected to be ready for submission to the external auditors May 2004. A draft
Financial Management Manualhas beencompleted and submittedto the Bank for review. The



                                               - 77 -

 recruitment o f additional staff, however, has not progressedat the same pace and EEA continues to face
 difficulties filling key identifiedpositions. A number o fthe remainingcritical actions are notedbelow
 together with the expected completion dates.

 RiskAssessment

 5.       The riskratings below are showing lowto mediummainly becauseofthe remainingcritical
 aspects yet to be completed inthe current financial managementarrangements. Otherwise, capacity and
 experience at central level is already inplace to address the identifiedweaknesses andprovide the
 necessary expertise duringproject implementation. Mitigatingfactors to address identifiedrisks are
 noted below. Inaddition, an action plan has also been agreedwith the client to ensure that acceptable
 financial management arrangementsare put inplace inreadiness for project implementation.
IRisk                              bskRating                          I RiskMitigation  Measures



 Entity Specific                     Medium                             Yes
 ProjectSpecific                     Low                                Yes

  ControlRisk
 ImplementingEntity                  Medium                             Yes
 Funds Flow                          Low                                Yes
  Staffing                           Low                                Yes
 AccountingPoliciesand               Low                                Yes
  Procedures
  InternalAudit
  ExternalAudit                    I Medium                              Yes
                                      Medium                          IYes
I ReportingandSystems
                Monitoring
  Information                      1I Medium
                                      Medium                          II Yes
                                                                         Yes                            I

  6.       Country-Specific. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has not yet been
  carried out; one i s scheduled for fiscal year FY05. A number o f other pieces o f diagnostic work have
  been carried out inrecent years and include a Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and a Country
  Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). Both o f these have dwelt on the limitedcapacity inthe
  country both inthe public as well as private sector. This is especially the case inthe area o f accounting
  andfinancial managementwhere there is no established accountancy professionandonly a limited
  number ofprofessionally qualified accountants. The recent conflict with Ethiopia has hada further
  negative impact on the economic environment as well as the implementationcapacity as several o f the
  well-qualified staff that hadbeenmobilized to join the military service have not yet returnedto their
  previous post. A Bank-financed project under the Demobilizationand Reintegration Program (DRP) is
  providing financial assistanceto discharged soldiers to helpthem reintegrate into civilian life.

  7.      Entity-Specific. EEA is a government utility which operates fairly autonomously underthe
  guidance and supervision o f a Board o f Directors. However, this autonomy is not supported by any legal
  proclamation, makingthe authority no more than a de facto department o fthe Ministry o f Energy and
  Mines. This arrangement has implications for the ability ofthe EEAto operate as aviable commercial
  enterprise, and to achieve the desired financial self-sufficiency. It also has staffing problems to prepare
  the necessarydocuments for recordingthe company's transactions onto the computerized general ledger.
  A number ofmajor changeshave beenagreeduponwith the government. This includes the registrationo f
  EEA as a separate legal entity. There is also needto changethe businesspractices ofEEA andfor which


                                                  - 78 -

funds will be available under the project. Inthe meantime andthroughthe completion ofthe accumulated
backlog o f accounting transactions, EEA has demonstratedthat with concerted effort, it can improve
upon its current performance and ensure timely preparation and submission o f regular reporting
requirements for managementpurposes.

8.       ProjectSpeczjic. This is mainly an infrastructure project involving few transactions but of
relatively large amounts. The Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansioncomponent will be one
single turnkey contract; the Rural Electrification component will also be made up o ftwo turnkey
contracts. Boththese make up a significant amount o fthe proposed credit and grant which would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. EEA staff have beeninvolved inhandlingtransactions o fthis nature
including the recently completed Hirgigo plant, as well as the ongoing EU-financedMassawa
Rehabilitationproject; expertise is therefore already available within the institution. Inaddition,
additional consultants will be engagedas technical advisors to assist inmonitoring project
implementation.

ImplementingEntity

9.       The accounting departments o fbothinstitutions are headedby qualified accountants with several
years o f experience, and both institutions have centralized accounting functions. Both institutions,
however, lack experience inhandling Bank resources and training would be requiredinthis area.
Nonetheless, expertise is beingbuilt up inthe country through a growing portfolio o f Bank-financed
projects.

FundsFlow

10.      The proposed project will be a blendofcredit andgrant financing. The proceeds ofthe credit
and those of the grant would not be mixedand there will therefore be a need to maintain separate
accountingrecords as well as bank accounts. Three special accounts will be requiredunder the project.
Two accounts will be maintainedby EEA, one for the credit and the other for the grant, while one
account will be maintainedby MEMfor the grant. All the three accounts will be requiredto be opened in
a bank acceptable to IDA. Detailed funds flow and reporting arrangement will be developed for the
RuralElectrification Fundduringthe initialproject implementationperiod. The proposed procurement
arrangements are that, as far as possible, most o f the requiredexpenditure would be made at the central
level. This includes internationalprocurement. The flow o f funds, therefore, would be mainly to service
providers.

Staffing

11.      EEA continues to face a problem inthe recruitment ofidentifiedkey positions, includingthose in
the Accounting Department, mainly due to the uncompetitive pay structure. A recent advert placed inthe
local press was not successful inattracting suitable candidates and a new advert was runninginthe press
at the time of the appraisal mission inApril 2004. The exercise o f clearing the backlog of financial
accountingrecords alluded to above highlightedthe fact that the immediate needfor additional
accountingstaff was no longer there. Rather, what was important was for EEA to continue operating at
the level demonstrated inthe last six months, recordingallthe transactions as they are initiatedinEEA's
books o f accounts. There is also needto streamline the accountingprocesses, including reviewing

various accounting documents used for inputto the computerized general ledger with a view to reducing
human interventions and inturn human errors. Inthe meantime, the Finance and Administration Manager
will be the designated accountant for the project.

Accounting Policiesand Procedures

12.      The accounting systemdeveloped in-house andusedbyEEA is capable ofproducingreports
which could form the basis o f quarterly FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs)required for monitoring
project implementation. This is only achievable ifup-to-date information is available andhencethe need
to bringupdate the accounting transactions o f EEA as noted above. The EEAhas now prepared a draft
Financial Management Manual that describesthe accounting system, internal control procedures, basis
o f accounting, standards to be followed, and policies and procedures that guide activities o fthe Authority
and ensure staff accountability. The manual has beensubmittedto the bank for review and management
will be provided with comments indue courseregardingany issues which would not have been
adequately addressed inthe current version. The manualalso includes details relatingto the chart of
accounts.

Reportingand Monitoring

13.      The Finance andAdministration Manager would determine the project's Chart ofAccounts as
well as the format and content of quarterly reports and annual financial statements. Subject to a decision
being made, these reports would include financial statements(e.g. sources and application of funds;
expenditure classified by project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types, and
comparison'withbudgets). The reports would closely follow sample formats that are given inthe World
Bank's "Financial Monitoring Reportsfor WorldBank-FinancedProjects: Guidelinesfor Borrowers",
copies of which have already been made available to EEA andDepartment o f Energy officials.

InformationSystems

14.      EEA's informationsystemcomprises ofseparateandnon-integrated modules for billingand
inventory records, runningon an IBMAS 400 computer; and payrollandthe General Ledger, runningon
stand-alone PCs. The software was developed in-house, and appears adequate for monitoringproject
resources. One o f the components o fthe project aims at improving accountingpractices, includingthe
updating o f the Authority's management information system; inthis way, the longterm requirements o f
the Authority inthis areawill be addressed. The Department ofEnergy maintains amanualsystemfor
accounting for project resources. This appearsto be adequate given the small portion o fthe project that
`willbe handledby the department.

Impactof ProcurementArrangements

15.      Indications are that most o f the procurement requirementswill be made at the head office. This
inturnwould simplifythe flow offunds andminimize the riskofmisuse ofproject resources.

Conclusion

16.      The conclusion is that the accounting and financial management arrangementsfor EEA do not
currently meet the Bank's minimumfinancial management requirements. Detailedbelow are the next
steps that were discussed and agreed with EEA duringappraisal. Once this time bound action plan is



                                              - 79 -

carried out satisfactory, EEA will have developed an accounting systemthat will be able to produce the
required level of financial monitoringreports ina timely fashion.

Next Steps

17.   Detailed below are critical issues that will needto be addressedbetween now andthe dates
indicated. Ideally, the target shouldbethat, as far as is possible, most o f these critical activities shouldbe
completed well before the due dates:


     Action                                                        Responsibility       Completion date

1     Recruitment of staffincritical positions ofthe Financeand     EEA                 Appraisal
      AdministrationDivisionofEEA. This should includean
      accountantdesignatedto handlethe accounting, financial
      management andreportingrequirements o fthe project.


2    Clear the accumulatedback-logof financialtransactions for     EEA                  July2004
     2004. This would ensure that transactions are upto date and
     current

3
     Audit offinancialstatements for the year ending 31December EEAPmEM r               Effectiveness
     2003.
` F    inalizeChart ofAccounts and agree format and content of                           egotiation
       onthly/quarterly/annualfinancialreporting


5     Preparationo fFinancialManagementManualdescribing             EEAMEM              Effectiveness
      accountingsystems andprocedures, internalcontrolsand
      funds flow processes:
      . Finaldraft incorporatingIDA comments


2. Audit Arrangements

InternalAudit

18.     EEAhas an internal audit unitthat reports to the General Manager. This is however understaffed
and not able to cope with internal audit functions of the Authority as stipulated inthe organizational
manual. Dueto its current constraints the internal audit unit has limitedfunctions, mainly focusing on
routine pre-auditing o f payment vouchers and daily cash collections. With enhancedcapacity building
measures beingsupported by the project, the internal audit unit is expected to cope with the added
requirements o fthe project.

ExternalAudit

19.     The EEA operates as an autonomous entity and prepares a full set o f financial statementsusing
accrual accounting. The Authority is audited by an auditing firm established by the government to audit



                                                  - 80 -

government owned enterprises. There is currently abacklog of auditedfinancial statementsmainly due to


the inability ofEEAto update its accounting records; this may impact onthe timely submission ofaudit
reports for the projects, an action planhas been agreedto bringthe Authority's accountingrecords upto
date, and thereafter have the financial statements audited.

20.      The audit work would be modeledon the new "Guidelines -Annual Financial ReportingAnd
Auditing For WorldBank-FinancedActivities" issuedby the Bank on June 30,2003. This will take
advantageo f the use o f continuing entity financial statements inrespect o f EEA since there is a history o f
preparingthese onregularbasis. Inaddition, the performance andsustainability o fEEA is critical as one
o fthe objectives o fthe project and its full set of financial statementswould be of relevance and interest
to the Bank. The MEMwould produce project financial statements. The following audit reports would be
required to be submitted to the Bank:

Audit Report                                           DueDate
Entitv FinancialStatements for EEC                  II Six months after fiscal vear end
ProjectFinancialStatements for MEM                     Six monthsafter fiscalyear end
ManagementLetters for bothEEC and MEM                IISix months after fiscalvear end

3. DisbursementArrangements

21.    Traditional disbursement procedures will be followed throughout the implementation period o f the
program. Given the expected large contract amount(s) on the Asmara distribution rehabilitation andthe
rural electrification components requiringinternationalcompetitive bidding, there may be effective use
o f either direct payments or special commitments through letters o f credit.




                                                - 81 -

 Allocation of creditlgrant proceeds(Table C)



lExpenditurecategory                    Amount ofthe Credit                  '30ofExpenditurestobe
                                         Allocated in US$M Grant Allocated in
                                                            IAmount of the  I      Financed
                                                                 USSM
Works                                            0.02                            100% of foreign
                                                                             expendituresand 85% of
                                                                                localexpenditures

 Supply and Installation                                                         100%of foreign
                                                                             expendituresand 85% of
                                                                                localexoenditures
  Component 1                                   25.18
  Component 2                                                     10.00
Goods                                                                            100% of foreign
                                                                             expendituresand 85% of
                                                                                localexpenditures
  Component 4.2                                                   1.50
  Components4.1,4.3 and 5                                         0.04

 ConsultingServices andAudits                                     1.95       100%foreignexpenditures
                                                                                 and85 %of local
                                                                                  expenditures
  Component 1
  Component 2                                                     0.63
  Component4.1                                                    0.90
  Component 4.2                                                   0.55
  Component4.3                                                    0.13
  Component 5                                                     0.08

 Training                                                                             100%
  Component4.2                                                    0.40
  Components4.1,4.3 and4.5                                        0.30

 Sub-grants under Component 5                                      1.41        100%o fthe amounts
                                                                                    disbursed
~




 OperatingCosts                                                   0.07                 85%

 Refimdingof ProjectPreparationAdvance                             1.00
 Unallocated                                     3.84             2.04

 Total                                           29.0             21.0



 Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):
 22.      All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit and grant account will be fully documented
 except for expenditures against contracts for: (a) goods under contracts below US$250,000 equivalent
 each; (b) works, including supply and installationunder contracts below US$500,000 equivalent each;
 and (c) consulting services under contracts for firms and individuals US$lOO,OOO and US$50,000
 equivalent each respectively. Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be



                                                   - 82 -

retained at EEC and MEMand will be available for review as requestedby IDA supervisionmissions and
project auditors.

Specialaccount:
23.      To facilitate disbursements o f eligible expenditures for goods, works and services, the Borrower
will open three separate special accounts ina commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The special accountswill bemanagedby EEC andMEMandwill cover IDA's shareof
eligible expenditures. The authorized allocations o f special accountsA, B and C are US$3.0, US$l.O and
US$1.O millionrespectively, 50% of the authorized allocations may be requested upon effectiveness or
as needed. To the extent possible, IDA's share o f eligible expenditures shouldbe paidthrough the
special accounts. Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after
monthly bank statements are received andreconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local
and foreign expenditures as required.




                                                  - 83 -

                              Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
ERITREA: ERITREAPOWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT

ProjectSchedule                               I           Planned         I        Actual      1
Time taken to preparethe project(months)
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal missiondeparture                             03/29/2004                 03/26/2004
Negotiations                                           05/03/2004                 0512112004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           11/30/2004


Preparedby:
EritreanElectric Corporation andMinistryo f Energy andMines.


Preparationassistance:
PB Consultants Ltd. and Africon Ltd.

Bankstaff who worked on the projecl

                                       Sr. Energy Economist
                                       Power Engineer, Consultant
                                       Financial Analyst
                                       Project Analyst
                                       ProgramAssistant
Amadou Konare                          Environmental Consultant
Roxanne Hakim                          Anthropologist
Chrisantha Ratnayake                   Sr. Power Engineer
                                       Procurement Analyst
Francesco Sarno                        Sr. Procurement Specialist
BrightonMusungwa                       Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist
Alfred Gulstone                        LeadPower Engineer
LudmillaButenko                        Sr. FinancialAnalyst
                                       Sr. Counsel
                                       Finance Officer
PeerReviewers:
                                       Sr. Private Sector DevelopmentSpecialist
                                       LeadEnergy Specialist




                                                  - 84 -

                           Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
ERITREA: ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
       ProcurementPlan, May 2004.

B. Bank Staff Assessments

9      ProcurementCapacity Assessment,November 2003.

9      Review o f Financial Management Arrangements, October 2003 and March 2004.

9      Financial analysis model for EEC (an electronic file).

9      Economic analysis model (an electronic file).

C. Other

9      Distribution and Voltage Conversion Study o f Asmara, IVOPower EngineeringLtd. and
       Electrowatt Engineering Ltd.April 14,1998

9      Power Distribution and Rural Electrification Project, Project Document, Eritrea Electric
       Authority, EEA, February2003.

9      Environmentaland Social Assessment, Government o f Eritrea, Ministryo f Energy and Mines,
       January 2004.

9      Resettlement PolicyFramework, Government o f Eritrea, Ministryo f EnergyandMines, January
       2004.

9      Condition Assessment o f the Asmara distribution system, PB Power, March2004.

9      DesignReport for rural electrification aroundthe towns o f Keren, Barentu, Dekemhare and Adi
       Keih, AFRICON LTD., May 5,2004.

9      Design Report for the Asmara distribution rehabilitation and expansion component, PB Power,

       May 30,2004.

9      TORs for the Technical and Support Committees.

9      TORs for the PMUandthe PC.

9      Pilot Investment Climate Assessment - Obstacles to the Expansiono f Eritrea's Manufacturing
       Sector, World Bank/IFC (December, 2002).

9      Current EnergyUtilizationand Future Options inRuralAreas - Country: Eritrea, Dr.Semere
       Habtetsion, Ministryo f Energy and Mines and Dr.Zemenfes Tsighe, Department o f Geography,
       Universityof Asmara African Energy PolicyResearchNetwork (AFREPREN), October 2002.
                            -
9      EnergyDimensionsofRural Enterprises inEritrea: The CaseofAla Small-scaleIrrigation
       Farmers, Dr.Semere Habtetsion, Ministryo f Energy and Mines and Dr.Zemenfes Tsighe,
       Department o f Geography, University o f Asmara, October 2000.

9      The Benefitso fRuralElectrification inIndia: Implications for Education, HouseholdLighting,
       and Irrigation by DouglasF.Barnes, KevinB.Fitzgerald, andHenry M.Peskin(July, 2002).


                                                 - 85 -

                                          Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
         ERITREA: ERITREAPOWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT
                                                          June4-2004
                                                                                                               Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                        and actual
                                                               OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                        disbursements'
ProjectID   FY   Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA                     Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO70272    2003 EducationSector InvestmentProject             0.00      45.00                      0.00   43.83        0.57       0.00
PO73604    2002 Emerg. Demb. & Reint.                         0.00      60.00                      0.00   75.23       29.29       0.00
PO58724    2002 CulturalAssets Rehabilitation                 0.00       5.00                      0.00     4.68       2.34       0.00
PO68463    2001 IntegratedEady Childhood                      0.00      40.00                      0.00   26.05        16.73      0.00
PO65713    2001 HIWAIDS,Malaria,STD & TB Control              0.00      40.00                      0.00   23.75        6.03       0.00
PO44674    2001 EmergencyReconstruction                       0.00      90.00                      0.00     3.23      -12.63      0.00
PO43124    1998 Health                                        0.00      18.30                      0.00     3.81       3.69       2.69
PO34154    1998 ERlTRE4PORTS                                  0.00      30.30                      0.00   16.15        15.09      2.75

                                                   Total:    0.00      328.60                      0.00   196.75       59.97      5.44




                                                                 - 8 6 -

                                         ERITREA
                                   STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                       Mar 2004
                                             -
                                   InMillionsUSDollars

                                                     Committed                    Disbursed
                                                   IFC                          IFC
FYApproval   Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic


                   TotalPortfolio:           0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00




             TotalPendingCommitment:            0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00




                                        - 87 -

                                           Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
          ERITREA: ERITREAPOWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT
                                                           June 4-2004
                                                                                                               Differencebetween exDected
                                                                                                                        and actual
                                                                OriginalAmount in US$Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                     Cancel. Undisb.       Orig      Frm Rev'd
PO70272     2003 EducationSector InvestmentProject             0.00      45.00                     0.00   43.83        -0.57        0.00
PO73604     2002 Emrg. Demb. &Rein!.                           0.00      60.00                     0.00   75.23       29.29         0.00
PO58724     2002 CulturalAssets Rehabilitation                 0.00       5.00                     0.00    4.68        2.34         0.00
PO68463     2001 IntegratedEarlyChildhood                      0.00      40.00                     0.00   26.05        16.73        0.00
PO65713     2001 HIWAIDS,Malaria,STD 8 TB Control              0.00      40.00                     0.00   23.75         6.03        0.00
PO44674     2001 EmergencyReconstruction                       0.00      90.00                     0.00     3.23      -12.63        0.00
PO43124     1998 Health                                        0.00      18.30                     0.00     3.81        3.69        2.69
PO34154     1998 ERITREAPORTS                                  0.00      30.30                     0.00   16.15        15.09        2.75

                                                                                                                               ~~

                                                    Total:    0.00      328.60                     0.00   196.75       59.97         544




                                                           - 88 -

                                            ERITREA
                                     STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          Mar-2004
                                     InMillionsUSDollars

                                                       Committed                     Disbursed
                                                     IFC                           IFC
FY Approval   Company                         Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic


                    Total Portfolio:           0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                  ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                            Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic


              TotalPendingCommitment:             0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00




                                      - 89 -

                                   Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ERITREA ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT
                                                   Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                Saharan   Low-
                                         Eritrea  Africa income
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                     688    2,495                Lifeexpectancy
                                                    450     430
                                                    306    1,072

Average annual growth, 1996.02
Population1%j                                2.7     2.4     1.9
                                                             2.3



                                                             30
                                                             59
                                                             81
                                                                          Accessto improved water source
                                                              76
                                                             37
                                                              95
                                                             103
                                                              87


                                                           2002
                                                            0.64
                                                            26.5
                                                            28.9
                                                           -30.1
                                                            30.6

                                                           -18.2
                                                             1.o
                                                            87.8
                                                             2.6
                                                            44.2
                                                            83.5

                                                         2002-06

_ _                                                          5.7
GDP per capita                       1.5     7 4    -0 7     3.3  I        -        Low-incomegroup     I
                                                                 I




STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                          1992     2001    2002     1Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDPj                                                                                              I
Agriculture                                30.6     17.9    11.7     f W T                                 cI
Industry                                    12.0    22.5    24.8      50
  Manufacturing                              8.2    10.8    11.7       0
Services                                   57.4     59.6    63.5     -50
Privateconsumption                        104.0     92.2    92.1    .iw 1
General government consumption             21.8     39.4    38.0
Importsof goods and services                                                   -GDI          &GDP


                                        1992-02    2o01    2o02      Growthof exports and imports(%)
(average annual growtbj
Agriculture                                 -1.4    29.1   -35.5  l W T
Industry                                   11.5      6.3     9.2
  Manufacturing                              8.1     5.5     6.5     50

Services                                     4.6     4.6     5.2

Privateconsumption                          -0.3    13.5     4.9
General governmentconsumption              14.2     -7.7     3.1    -50
Gross domestic investment                  10.7     69.9   -12.3            -Exports         &imports
Importsof goods and services                 6.1    16.1    -5.3




                                                 - 90 -

                                                                                                          Eritrea
                                                         ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1992    2001      2002    Inflation(%)
Domesticprices
1%change)                                                                                                          i
Consumerprices                                  14.6      16.9
ImplicitGDP deflator                            13.6       14.5

Government ffnance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                          30.6    43.6      37.9              97    98     99     00       01       02
Currentbudgetbalance                     -7.1   -I8.8     -13.4     *CPI                 -GDP            deflator
Overallsurplus/deficit                  -11.3   -31.5     32.7

TRADE
                                        1992    2001      2002  I Export
(US$ millions)                                                             and importlevels(US$ mill.)              c
Total exports (fob)                       15      20        54   /gooT
 Foodand liveanimals                        1       6       30
 Beveragesandtobaco                         1       0         0
 Manufactures                               1       6         7  400

Total imports (cif)                      278     537       520
 Food                                     35     154       105    200
 Fuelandenergy                              2       3         5
                                                                 I                                              "I
 Capitalgoods                             12      91       115     0
                                                                                                 00
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                        91        92            BB  97    98    s4             01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                       98       100                    Exports          Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                          93        92

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1992    2001      2002
(US$millions)                                                      Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goodsand services               88     147        186
Importsof goods and services             278     570       551   lioT
Resourcebalance                         -190     423       -365

Net income                                  0      -5        -6
Netcurrenttransfers                      171     298       254

Currentaccount balance                    -19    -130      -117

Financingitems (net)                     110     144        124
Changesin net reserves                    -91     -14        -7

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//ions)        5     51         31
Conversionrate (DEC.local/US$1            4.6    10.9      14.0

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1992    2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                      :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed               4aa        564
  IBRD                                              0         0
  IDA                                             I58       219

Total debt service                                  6         9
  IBRD                                              0         0
  IDA                                               1         1

Compositionof netresourceflows
  Official grants                                 128        84
  Official creditors                              103        82
  Privatecreditors                                  0         0
  Foreigndirect investment                         12        20
  Portfolioequity                                   0         0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                     170        65    A    IBRD                        E Bilateral
                                                                                                       -
  Disbursements                                    78        46    B IDA      D Othermultilateral
                                                                                -                   F Private
                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                       ~


  Principal repayments                              0         0    C IMF
                                                                     ---                            G Short-term
  Netflows                                         78        46
  Interestpayments                                  1         1
  Nettransfers                                     77        45

Ueveiopmenttconomics                                                                                         W l flu3



                                            -91-

      Additional Annex II Summary of Monitoringand EvaluationArrangements
ERITREA: ERITREAPOWER DISTRIBUTIONAND RURAL ELECTRIFICATIONPROJECT


1,       The project design summary inAnnex I will guide the monitoring o f outputs and evaluation of
impacts, which will happen at several levels as discussedbelow. The performance indicators inAnnex 1
will be reviewed and fine-tuned annually to take account o fprogress onthe ground.

(a)      EEC through its PMUwill be responsible for the continuous monitoring o f the construction
programfor the Asmara andREcomponents. For the Asmara component, EEC will collect data on the
numberof different types ofconsumers connectedto electricity supplyduringthe project's
implementationperiod, electricity transmittedto and sold inAsmara, level o fnetwork losses, number of
supply interruptions, extent ofvoltage fluctuations, andcustomer complaintsand other problems during
the constructionperiodandremedial action taken. For the RE component, EEC will document the
numberofvillages electrified, the number ofconsumer connections made, cashcontributions received
from the electrifiedvillages andmoneys deposited to the REFund. Moreover, EEC will implement the
activities identified inthe Environmentaland Social Management Plan for the Asmara and the RE
component. EEC will report on all of the above activities inits quarterly ProgressReports. The report
will also includemanagement information data on EEC's financial and operational performance as an
Annex. The appraisal mission providedEEC with a suggestedformat for this Annex.

(b)      MEMwill continuously monitorthe progressmadeintheproject's sectorreformcomponent.
Also, it will monitor the implementation o f the Environmentaland Social Management and Monitoring
Plan and the Resettlement Action Plans for the rural component. Itwill also be responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation o f the social outcomes inthe electrified villages. The MEMwill monitor the
following, among others: (i)   landbeingtaken away for rural electrification construction; (ii) o f
                                                                                                number
villages/townships electrified ina Zoba/sub-Zoba compared to before; (iii)   time series statistics o f the
domestic, commercial, and industrial customers connected andtheir level o f electricity consumption; (iv)
improvement insocial facilities such as health, clean water sources, and schools compared to before; and
(v) how manypeople employed comparedto before, etc. MEMwill report onthese indicators inits
quarterly ProgressReports.

(c)      Village Administrators will: (i)carry out environmental and social screening intheir respective
villages to be electrified; and (ii)
                                   oversee the implementation o f the compensation plans. They will
report on these activities to the MEM, who will document them intheir quarterly Progress Reports.




                                                 - 92 -

       Mr. MakhtarDiop
       CountryDirector Etitrea
                        -
       TheWorM Bank
       HItlpark BuildingUpper Mill
       Nairobi, Kenya




        Dear Mr. Diop




                                       -93 -


              MailingAddress:                    Tel. 28.1-1-41 68 f 2 Fax: 293-1-42 ?%31
P.U.ffox 52M. Jimna Scnbetis St. No, $4, Asmasa       2834-12 7%44

   burden OR the emnomy, Eritrea's current pattern of energy ~ n ~ u ~ p tis5 n           i
   unsustainable.

2. The 2003 energy statistics for Eritrea indicatesthat the final energy ~ ~ ~ s u m ~ t ~ o n
   was around 718,000 tones of ail equivalent af which 65% was from biomass
   resources, 32.3% from imported dl products and electricily's share was 2
   The largest mnsumerwas the hausehold sector, accctuntingfor 68.8%,follgs
   by transport 13.8%, public and commercial 92%' the energy industry 7.7% an
   manufacturingindustry 2.5%. Per capita cansumptonof electdclty, assuming a
   populationof 3.7' Mitlkn, was 62 kWh camparedwRh the Sub-Saharan werag
   of 113 kWh (forthe year 2000, excluding SouthAfrica)..Acmrding to              E
   Demographic a& Health Survey (2002), only 3% of the rural pupulafmn
   respmively.
   electricity aCI;ess, urban and the national a w s s being 78% and


3. The presentpower distrihutian system in Asmara, which is over 50 years old, ig
   incapable of meeqing addiWnal loads. Frequent power failures and voltslgs
   fluctuations and unacceptably high powor losses a            critical prablems of thh
   system.Thus, the main objective of the hmam                  isttibulioncomponent
   the project is to alleviate the acute weakness and s ~ o ~ ~ of the i01 ~ g ~~ m
   d i s ~ ~ b ~nehvarkshGrmterAsmara.
                  t j ~ f f

Initiativesand a~~~~~~~~~~~

4,    Wfih the completmn crf the Power Genefation ami Transmission Txpa
      Project(Le, Hirgigo Power Plant), Eritrea'spwergenefationcapacity has
      than doubledfeom 52 to 136 megawatts, 7711s 1s adequate to meat the
      demands far power inthe urbanareas prese                  d by We intarconnea=ted
      system (ICs). To s          new demandas the              economytransmissbn
                                                                             g m s , action$.
                                  expand the country'
                                  ribution lines bepnd &e urbanRural ~
                                                                on andcentres            as
                                                                                   to ntml
                                    ntiy out of rea& to th                                       ~
      component of this pmjedconstitutes an                          to avail             tol
       power supplyto ~ t i ~ ~farm and non-farmb
       important lo reduce nrrat poverty. To keep w&.ses.
                                    ~ a t e                     rtTheTheseeasy accessare
                                                                             mea
                                                                               to
                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~               emt.
       electricity wlil be suppPied from the na      al grid using Iow-cost technologies
       and operational pror;rzldu~esthat a n be ~p~~~~~~a6 demand grows, The
       Government has been ~~~~d~~~capital subsidy and will~continue to do            SO far
                      of power ~ ~ f r ~ insareas~wheret services~ wuuld not be
                                                      ~     ~              r
                       viable ~    ~sucb~a support. o
                                                 h          ~             ~

 5. As a result~ of the Eervemment injtiativm to irnpmve the, energy supply, the
     f ~ ~ i ~ wmajorga
                      n      ~    h  ~have been ~r6mxkd~in the short history af the
                                          ~     ~       %            t     ~
     c:ountry,

         Powergenerationhas increasedfrom c 30 MW fn 1994 to over 130MW.
     e T"helength oft        smission tines has increasedfrom 4%kmto aver 350 km,
     m   The lengthof d ~ ~ t t itines hasincreasedfwm 8fsO kmto aver 1400km,
                                     b ~ ~ ~ n
         R ~ h a b ~ ~ jpower~~in~ ~ r i bsystemoisninprogress.
                           of t ~ ~              ~ t ~




                                          - 94 -

  9   Per capita cansumptionof etedricityhasincreasedfrum I 6 kWhin 1991to
      over 60 kWh.
  I   Uver600 kW solar syst" havebeeninstalled~                      ~the country, ~         g   ~   ~
      mainly for communitywthre pupses.
      Wind and sotar resourcesassessment is beingcmductedfum 25
      ~       e      ~ statbnsinstalledafor this purpose, ~
                           #      ~            ~    ~              ~            ~
  ;.  Pitotwind energy applications projectisinthe pipeline.
  I   Disseminationof imp                 is inpmzgaesswith over 15,000 done SQ far.
  0   ElectricityFroclamatianandstove incorporationof the pubficpowerutility have
      beenenactedwirththeaimof p r ~ ~ o toperationalefficiency and safHy,
                                                  j n ~
      economicsustalnability, privateend communi@ parPidpathand fair
      competitianin(eiedri~ttybusiness.

The importanceof EnergyinPovertyReductionStrategy
@.Amding to the Lwing Standards Meas                         ey (LSMS) carried out t         r
  the NationalSt                  ,thepoorGon              reas and Vie remainingpo: L
                                                             66 percent of the Eritw t
                            bout twa-thirds live
                             Of%he totat urban              fall underthe @*@ne r
                             povertyis notonly a

7. Inthe InterimPoverty reduction Strategy Paper (1-      PRSP),the GaE emphasis! 3
                                                          the paor is a necessary ai 1
                                                          humandevelopment,Mode 1
                                                           lowering Indoor and outd~r
                                                                 childrm many of whc t
                                                                 t3bj up time for incar     3

                                                                                           'I
                                                                                           II
                                                                                           7
   and mralareas.                                                                          ll
                                                                                           6
   eligibility cTjl~?Tjio ensureIts su
                       to



8. The primary objective in the energy sector is~to develop an eficient and
                              and dependable ene                     r and supply sys ~         ~   ~   ~
                             ri'trea'sgrowingecon       inan~~~~~~~1~           and~sustai
                                raising the quality
   electrify every home, businesses and soci
    specifically,Our large%are as fotlows;

       * Reduce by half, bebeen 2              and 2015, the proprtien of urbanl semi
            urbanand rural~ ~ u s ~without~ accessto adequate
                                           ~ u    d s
                                                                         ~~~~~~~




       9    Reduce by half, between 2005 and 2015, the proportion of urban, se
            urban and rural households reliant OR cooking methods that are
            sustainable; and




                                         - 95 -

     e    By 2015 provide adequate, dean and efficient energy sewices to all
          educatlonai,healthand cleanw a k supplyfacilities,

9. Achievement af these goals requims significant investmentson energy services
   and scaling of g M expansion and j           ~              ~of stand alone at hybridised~
                                                                       l         e     ~         ~  ~  ~
   Electrification Project" (APDREP) will assist strategic i ~ ~ l ~~ofmthe~ ~ ~ ~ i o ~
   renewable energy sysbrrzs. The *Asmar8 Power ~ i ~ ~ iand ~Rut j ~ n

   goals in the targeted urban and mrat amas. The G ~ v ~ r n m ~ ~is~to~         approach
   implementsimilar projectsina phasad mannerwiththeview to achieve long-term
   objjedves,

Power Sub-SerstorPaticyand StrategicPtan

40. The strategic objectives are to develop an economically and ~ ~ v j ~ n ~ e ~ ~ a ~ l ~
                         rthroughtheapplicationof appropriateteec;hnologyaf ene
                          mnservafion and usage ~ p t i ~ i anda diversifyin$     ~ ~
    sources of alwtriMy and devdoping indigenous resources and
     measures, Mom spec'rfic objectives are: (I)to provide adequate, appropriate,
                        secured electricity to all sec2ars; and              (ii) decrease the
                      the powersector an importedail.

11 The l ~ p ~ ~ ~ofethe atstlve~strategic objecrtiVes myires poky
                                n ~ t       o ~
     major investments and capacity building. The priodty measuras and
     pertainingto the powersector are:

       IC  Expandnational e l e ~ ~ ~pr~gmmmesthrough the consoIidation and
                                             t j o ~
           expansion of $hepower grid system and generation capacities; increase
           the sham ofelwtricityin the nationalenergy market;
                                                                    through efBicisnt
                                                                 tftdrieity tariffs are
                                 to cover ope"ional expenses, loansentkingandto

       I.  Ensumthat cross-sukidiss, if at allj
                                 ewesfor future ~ ~ v~ e l ~ p ~~ ~ ~ :~
                                                              u     are~transparentand kept ta ~
                                                                              ~         ~        ~ ,
           ;a ~          i only being # n~ s i ~when~ known to comptement
                                  ~                            ~~       ~~            ~      ,
            G ~ ~ ~ rsocialpolicies;~ t ' ~
                             n ~ ~
        e   Promoteprivateinvestmentinthe powers&w.
            Conduct and axpand rural ~           ~             ~ program and ~~ s c~ W~a b ~ ~ ~~ h~
                                                                     ~      ~                          n
            ~            ~~   ~   ~Fundbthis~effect, n
                                      ~o   ~                 ~~      g ~               ~        ~    ~
            Dewtop power generation systems from the indigenous and cleaner
            scitfrc6sof energy, gas, wind, solar,                    modembkmass;
                                                    ~~~~~~~~~




        rl  ~      ~     r humanandn~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r;rp;ac&yu ~t ~for~~devebpin ~~
                                e                            ~ ~ ~t essentiat          n ~ ~
            efficientand~ ~ s ~ apowersector;l ~
                                       ~ ~ a b




                                        - 96 -

   instwmeM as reflmkd in tire Electricity Proclamationis to design a long-term
   tariff setting mechanismthat isunitarypertariff category withinthe nationalgrid
   and basedon real cosb and reasonabfeprofits. The Gavernmsntbe9levesthat
   the tariff poticywill hefp:

  I  Achiwe longtermfinanr;ial s ~ s t a ~ n ofbthel fritrean ElectricGorpomtian;
                                             ~ j ~ ~
     Motivatesmati incomeearning enterprisesusingowndieset-op
     and pumpsetsto switchto the cheaper and moredependablecentralgrid;
     Encommgethe economics of scale ~f industrial p r o ~ ~ and~application~f
                                                                 ~    o n

  * To the extent possible, ensure the increased electricity access and
     rationalcategorisatianofconsumers;

     ~povertyreduction~targets; semi urbanland~urban peor people to meet the
           ~      oby the rural, b
                              ~         ~
                                and
     Facifibteprivatesector penetrationinthe electricity business.

ReformMeasuresunderthis proleatandbeyond

13. The key elements of the efmnagenda that will be ~ t r ~ n gor~conductied ~
                                                                          ~ ~ i e
    inthe Power Sectorrefcinnsub-c"ponent ofthis prcrject,forwhkh ~              n   s   ~
    will beengagedindude:

     a) Establishing the Eritrea ElecZric Corporation as an eubnomous electric
          utilitythrough ~ r a ~ ato~operateoonncommercialprincipfes,with cleqr
          mies for the respomibilAiwand.~accauntabilities of the owner, the board,
                                             ~

          andthe ~anag%ment~

      b) Electricity Proclamationhas been enacted whose central objective~is to
          promote itafficiency, safety, ~ n ~ ~ rpmtectian~and~privatet se l
                                                          ~ n          ~
                    ent in the pwer f&x&r. It provides State Regulationsfor
                    ment and aperations of power plants and ekctriml ~ ~ ~ Q r ~ s "
          tar@%andfare tradeof electricity.

      c) Carry out r e ~ ~ ~ c t uof~EEA%fitaencial accounts to realisti
                                       n g
          the company's revenue eamin3 assets and liabilities, make
           ~    ~    ~ andtuincreaseuWsmliransparmcy; ~
                          f   ~    ~        ~  ~      i    ~         ~  ,




                                      - 97 -

   h) Carry aut a corporate rw&uct      g of EL&to enable it to fill itsiu ~ # ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
       under the newlyenacted Ele       ty Pmlamatian, increaseefficiency,andy*
       meetits perfamancgtargets;




Ministe6f Energyand Mines



      - Ministry of NationalDevelopment




                                   - 98 -

                                         Annex I

Perfwmanlcraof E r h aUoGtric
                                 ~~~~~~




The Erittaa Electric Authority operates an                   (ICs) and Self-Cantained Systems
                                             ~~~~~~~~
(SCS) whose total insUSed generating mapadties stands at 142 MW and 14 MW
respectively,bringing the total to 168 MW. The bulk of this, Le, WMW, is frum the newly
 is^^^^^^ Hirgigo Power Plant war Massawa. The IC5 accounted for QO*haf the
e!edflcitygeneration,whicb mountedto 2$7'Gvvh implyiyla andest grWhad6%over the
previousyear 2002, Electricitysoldwas 206 O m indicatinga 23% lass,which isquite high.
The numbetof customersin2003 .was108,708of which 96,665 were inthe ICs and 12,040
in the SGS. Pomrjstic corcsummamuntd for 38% of sales, indushy for 31%, publicand
~ommercialfor 30%, and street lighting2%, Average in"?              ffm saleswits 13 w:niasaf
USDper kWh.The numberof employees.was 761implyingcustome
143:li. Other usefuf manage                          are the number of
capacityand generatedGWh
resp&vely. The values wcrtmmendadk r thewregion is SfMW and 2?GWh as wet1as 1253
                                                      d for EEAstandingat 4.9/IvIW and 2.9/GWh

fatcustomerstoemployeetab.




                                         - 99 -


MAP SECTION


