                              Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                   Report No: AC309
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/05/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ERITREA                                                Project ID: P057929
Project: ERITREA POWER DISTRIBUTION AND                         Task Team Leader: Paivi Koljonen
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 30, 2004                     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 24, 2004                                    IDA Amount ($m): 33.00
                                                                       IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT: 17
Managing Unit: AFTEG                                            Sector: Power (95%); General energy sector (5%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)              Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector
Status: Lending                                                 development (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                                                                (P); Other environment and natural resources
                                                                management (S); Decentralization (S); Regulation
                                                                and competition policy (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
In support of broad-based economic growth, the project's development objectives are to: (i) establish a
sustainable program for expanding the population's access to electricity; (ii) improve the security of
electricity supply; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of energy sector agencies, including:
regulatory, fiscal, and institutional reforms in the sector to increase efficiency and attract private
participation.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
A. Asmara Distribution System Rehabilitation and Expansion (US$35.73 million of which US$32.88
IDA credit financed)

This component seeks to remove operating constraints on the distribution system in the city, reduce losses,
and meet the forecast increase in demand over the next 20 years.

Investments. The project will finance: (a) the complete replacement of the old 5.5kV medium voltage
system by a more efficient and modern 15kV system; (b) the elimination of the old fashioned and unreliable
127/220V low voltage system, replacing it with an efficient 400/230V system; and (c) a new 66/15 kV
substation at Asmara North, plus upgrading/rehabilitation of the existing substations at Gejeret and Denden
and minor works at Asmara East and Belesa substations. In addition, the project will finance the
undergrounding of the medium voltage system in the old historic city center, where space is at premium and
the replacement of the current, dangerous, open-wire systems by a safe aerial bunched cable (ABC). The
project also will finance the replacement of service connections and new meters for affected consumers.
These investments will significantly increase the network's load carrying capacity and drastically reduce
losses as a result of upgrading to the higher operating voltage. The upgrading will help unify EEA's city
distribution standards, as other cities and the new suburbs of Asmara are already operating at the new
voltage. Preparation of this component is based on studies previously carried out by independent
consultants and updated during preparation.

Technical Assistance: Training and consulting services to EEA on project design, management,

                                                         2
                                                                                                             ISDS


construction, and operation.

B. Rural Electrification (US$16.73 million of which US$12.68 IDA grant financed)

This component will support the Government's strategy to increase the population's access to electricity. It
includes two sub-components: (i) the electrification of about 80 villages and small towns around four main
towns ­ Keren, Barentu, Dekemhare and Adi Keih - through grid extensions by EEA; and (ii) seed funding
for the Government's Rural Electrification Fund to be established following the approval of the Electricity
Proclamation.

B1. Grid Electrification by EEA

Investments: The project will finance the extension of the medium voltage distribution lines from the larger
towns to the center of the selected villages, the distribution transformers, the low voltage distribution lines,
and a number of service connections.

In accordance with the procedure for rural electrification in Eritrea, the villagers pay for the cost of the low
voltage reticulation in the village as an upfront payment. The contributions for each householder are
determined by the Village Administrator on the basis of `ability to pay'. EEA collects the service
connection costs directly from the consumers. In addition, the householder has to pay for simple house
wiring. As the project will finance the entire connection costs in the selected villages, it was agreed with
the Government and EEA that EEA would collect the payments from the villages and deposit them in the
Rural Electrification Fund to benefit future electrification. This arrangement will ensure consistency with
the financing arrangement in villages that have been recently electrified with government and SIDA
financing. An upfront payment will also increase the villages' ownership of the project. The payment
depends on the size of the village - the larger and/or the more compact the village the less they pay. For
those electrified during 2002/2003 the average payment was 920 Nfa per household (the average reported
annual household income in the project's target villages varies from 2,119 to 19,295 Nfa). It is expected
that the systematic planning and the new distribution standards under this project will reduce the cost. The
project will also establish an improved payment mechanism whereby consumers can elect to pay the
connection cost in annual installments.

Technical Assistance. The project will finance training and consulting services to EEA on project design,
management, construction, and operation. An important aspect is enabling EEA to smoothly integrate, in
its operational and maintenance procedures, the requirements of the new low-cost distribution standards
that the project will introduce, including a mixed system of single phase and three phase distribution.

B2. Seed Funding for the Rural Electrification Fund

The Government will establish a Rural Electrification Fund to finance capital subsidies to qualifying
schemes to electrify additional villages either by EEA, village cooperatives, or private energy service
companies. The project will provide, through an IDA post-conflict grant, seed funding to this Fund once
the Government has established it with suitable administrative management arrangements and has
developed clear selection criteria for rural electrification. Thus, the project will be able to provide
financing for community or private sector electrification schemes in the latter part of the implementation
period.

C. Sector Reform and Institutional Capacity Building (US$4.52 of which $US$4.03 IDA grant
financed)

                                                        3
                                                                                                             ISDS




This component will assist the Government to implement its power sector reform program. It supports the
development of the institutional and regulatory aspects of the power sector and includes advisory services,
studies, and training for: (a) the finalization and implementation of the Government's new Electricity
Proclamation establishing a modern legal and regulatory framework for the power sector; (b) the
establishment of the institutional and regulatory arrangements for rural electrification, including the Rural
Electrification Fund - a mechanism for the Government to promote electrification in areas that would not be
commercially viable without a capital subsidy; (c) the establishment of a suitable regulatory function based
on the framework stipulated in the Electricity Proclamation; (d) the establishment of a suitable tariff setting
policy and mechanism; (e) the building of EEA's technical and planning capacity; (f) capacity building for
sector agencies, MEM and EEA, and for private enterprises and village cooperatives interested in
participating in power distribution; and (g) consulting services for M&E of project outputs and impacts.

With regard to the development of rural electrification approaches, the project will finance assistance to
the Government, through the MEM, to promote cooperative and private sector participation in electricity
supply. This will be achieved through training and technical assistance for the development of business
models and operational procedures for rural electricity cooperatives, private energy service companies, and
individual entrepreneurs to enable them to manage electricity services in rural areas. The business models
will promote ownership by the beneficiaries and will be required to be self supporting after the distribution
system is built using a capital subsidy. Additionally, the project will test an alternative approach of
engaging the private sector in the management of rural electricity services, in line with the Government's
policy. This will involve training of electrical practitioners in the villages to do in-house wiring as this is
not done by EEA staff as part of the project. Potential trainees are the demobilized youth who were
engaged in the defense of the country. EEA could also engage the trainees as agents to distribute and
collect electric bills and conduct minor extensions to new customer sites. They could also widen the scope
of their services by engaging in other energy systems like distribution of LPG, kerosene, or renewable
energy technologies. As rural electrification intensifies, these private practitioners could develop into rural
energy service companies.

D. Environmental Monitoring and Mitigation (US$0.55 million of which US$0.46 million IDA grant
financed)

This component will finance the cost of implementing the Environmental and Social Management Plan for
the project. The main activities to be financed are: (i) training for EEA's Project Management Unit, MEM,
and the Zoba and Village Administrators; (ii) implementation of the M&E activities; (iii) implementation of
a compensation plan for loss of crops during construction of power lines under the Asmara distribution
rehabilitation and rural electrification components; and (iv) environmental audits at the end of the project.
EEA will finance the compensation plan.



Project Cost

Components:


Asmara distribution rehabilitation and expansion
Rural electrification
Rural Electrification Fund
Sector reform and institutional capacity building

                                                        4
                                                                                                          ISDS


Environmental monitoring and mitigation




I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The project is located in Asmara and its environs and in the villages around the towns of Keren, Barentu,
Dekemhare, and Adi Keith.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The project has been rated B since there are some adverse environmental impacts from
construction activities and the potential for minimal resettlement impacts largely in the form of temporary land
allocation for some civil works. However, these are limited and can be mitigated. Hence an environment and
social assessment (ESA) has been done which identifies the main environment and social issues. On this basis,
the project has adopted the following mitigation measures an environment management and monitoring plan
(EMMP), a resettlement policy framework (RPF), and adequate arrangements and structures in place to ensure
rescue archaeology as needed. The potential impacts have been thoroughly analyzed in the ESA and addressed
through the ESMMP and RPF. Institutional arrangements for the electrification access component will be
designed to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account throughout selection, planning,
construction and operation of new distribution grids and power supply sources, and that social benefits are
ensured through monitoring impacts on identified sub-groups such as the rural poor and project affected.
Environmental and social considerations and impact mitigation planning will be an integral part of feasibility
and technical studies for any new infrastructure.

                                                        5
                                                                                                         ISDS




C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on  for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes   No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes   No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes   No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes   No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes   No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes   No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes   No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes   No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes   No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes   No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project will not have any large scale, significant, or irreversible impacts.

 The ESA contains an excellent analysis of the potential positive and negative impacts of the urban and
 rural components, based on extensive consultations with stakeholders. The following mitigation measures
 have been identified, based on the ESA.

 ENVIRONMENT ISSUES

 Asmara Component



  Negative Impacts                                         Mitigation Measure
Ensure that all areas which require mitigation            Forthcoming detailed engineering design
measures are identified
Inadvertent disruption of water, sewer and                Use existing maps of buried water supply and
telecom lines.                                            sewerage and telecom cables; produce GIS in
                                                          collaboration with Dept. of Infrastructure and
                                                          according to its regulations
Interference of electric and telecom cables               Use perpendicular crossings with enhanced
                                                          insulation
MV and LV specialization issues                           Arrange different construction crews for MV
                                                          and LV

                                                        6
                                                                                                             ISDS




Rural Component



  Negative Impacts                                         Mitigation Measure
Vegetation damage, habitat loss and invasion by           Utilize appropriate cleaning techniques
exotic species along right of way, access roads and       Maintain native groundcover beneath lines
around substation                                         Replant disturbed sites
                                                          Manage right of ways to maximum wild life
                                                          benefits
Habitat fragmentation or distribution                     Select right of ways to avoid important natural
                                                          areas
                                                          Maintain native vegetation beneath lines
Run-off and sediment                                      Avoid water bodies, flood plains and wetlands
                                                          Design drainage ditches to avoid affecting
                                                          nearby lands
The cutting of trees and branches                         If unavoidable, minimize
EEA issues                                                Appoint foreign consultant and local
                                                          subcontractors



Social Issues

 Substantive socio-economic analysis was carried out in the context of the Asmara and rural components,
 which informed the ESA and the mitigation plans (ESMMP & RPF).

 The analysis focused on gaining an understanding of the benefits and possible problems associated with
 voltage conversion in the context of the Asmara component of the project. The study covered 116
 households and firms, 46.5 percent of whom were from the non-converted areas while the other 53.5 were
 from the converted areas. The sample included households from upper, middle and lower income groups.
 80 percent of the sample was composed of households and the remaining 20 percent of industrial,
 commercial and other general business The respondents were selected randomly from the streets of the
 residential areas, and from customers who frequented shops in the selected areas . The main issues
 identified were: (a) The importance of adequate advance notification about voltage conversion, through a
 formal channel rather than through word of mouth, (b) conversion resulted in an improvement in quality
 of service, (c) In about 50% of cases, conversion required additional cost for re-wiring (about Nfa 400 per
 room), and (d) Damage to appliances following voltage conversion was a significant burden to clients.
 This was attributed to lack of information dissemination on the part of EEA, along with lack of knowledge
 and negligence in appliance maintenance on the part of appliance users. The proposed project will put in
 place an adequate information dissemination program.

The socio-economic survey conducted for the rural component aimed at a) involving the communities to
identify the local priorities and needs, b) evaluating the possibility for different social groups to meet the
costs associated with electric power supply, c) assessing how to target rural low income households, and d)
the different implications for gender roles. The study conducted in-depth interviews with officials and key
informants as well as a household survey of 50 households (30 semi-urban and 20 village) in each of 4
areas. The sample was stratified in such a way that various vulnerable or priority groups were represented;
Female Headed Households (FHHs), returnees and demobilized fighters and men as well as women.

                                                        7
                                                                                                           ISDS




This survey shows clearly that most of the people in the project areas are eager to get electricity service and
100 percent of the respondents expect electrification to change completely the quality of their life by
reviving economic development (e.g. production expansion, new business, increase employee numbers.
Most people expect to use electricity for lighting and entertainment, about 50% for cooking, 23% for
income generation and 13% for agriculture. About 96 percent think they can meet the costs of
electrification (through sharing, cooperative membership or own meters). However, the project will put in
place a system that allows people the option of instalment payment to cover the initial costs of connection
and installation.

The project has identified the possibility of some resettlement impacts largely in the form of temporary land
allocation for some civil works and a Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared (see detail below).


Other Social Impacts Rated and Mitigation Measures:

Extended power cuts to customers (moderate risk)          Use mobile diesel generators to supply critical
                                                          customers and/or encourage them to have
                                                          standby generators.
Blowouts from voltage conversion (moderate risk)          Prepare customers
Some areas may be mined (moderate risk)                   Ensure mine clearance beforehand
Some areas may not get services                           A feasible single-wire-earth-return system will
                                                          be studied by a consultant from the project
                                                          funds; Incorporation of village- and Zoba-driven
                                                          initiatives from outside the targeted areas;
                                                          Fulfilling the condition that Barentu and Adi
                                                          Keyieh be joined with the ICS
Local skills adapted to diesel powered                    Technical/financial assistance to promote shift
pumpsets/gensets                                          to electricity in rural areas




II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.

None expected.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.

It is expected that the improvement of power supply to rural areas will foster both the development of small
towns and increase rural incomes and standards of living through improvements in technology and
equipment. The ESA has projected the likely benefits of these. The current project has policies and
institutional structures in place that are expected to be capable of taking on the environment and social
issues related to such impacts over the long run.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A

                                                           8
                                                                                                                 ISDS


 II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental Assessment:

The Environmental and Social Assessment for the project was disclosed on February 10, 2004. See Section
E5.1.

Involuntary Resettlement:

The project has identified the possibility of some resettlement impacts largely in the form of temporary land
allocation for some civil works and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RFP) has been prepared and
disclosed. The RPF outlines the institutional responsibilities for development of resettlement plans for
sub-projects before civil works commence, provides a budget for training to develop such plans, describes an
entitlement matrix outlining different categories of affected persons and different categories of properties
requiring compensation, and sets out monitoring indicators and a grievance mechanism.

Specific Resettlement-related Impacts and Mitigation Measures:

Damages to agricultural products during construction (low risk)                           Erection during the dry season
Securing an optimum right of way (low risk)                                               Involve local administration
                                                                                          and people
Denial of or restrictive access to economic resources, land, fodder, property, buildings, Limit the use of heavy
fruit trees, etc (low risk)                                                               vehicles and pay
                                                                                          compensation for damages
Pole erection passing through farm lands (high risk)                                      Limit the use of heavy
                                                                                          vehicles and pay
                                                                                          compensation for damages
Disruption of pathways                                                                    Lay underground cables and
                                                                                          refill pathways with urgency

Cultural Property:

Eritrea is blessed with perhaps 20,000 to 40,000 heritage sites, many of them having national, continental
and global importance. However, many potentially sensitive areas are not yet known because archaeologists
and heritage managers are only beginning to document the presence of cultural heritage sites. The ESA has
identified all the known sites and has provisions in place to work closely with the National Museum with
regard to any necessary rescue work. In the event that civil works encounter archaeological heritage, the
National Museum will be contacted. Once contacted, museum and university personnel will make a rapid
assessment survey to clear the area for development or to work with planners in suggesting mitigating
alternatives to activities that threaten cultural heritage sites. Contracts of private companies involved in civil
works will oblige them to go through this same channel.

 II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
 policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

  The Department of Energy & Mines (DOE) established a multi disciplinary Task Team entrusted with the
  preparation of the ESA report in February 2003 (See Appendix 11.1 of ESA for the list). The public
  consultations (See Appendix 11.2) relating to the ESA preparation commenced in March 2003. Numerous
  ideas and resource documents have been obtained through the consultation effort, which helped the ESA
  preparation immensely. DOE has taken full ownership of the process of the environment assessment and

                                                      9
                                                                                                           ISDS


 socio-economic analysis and the proposed mitigation action plans, including resettlement policy
 framework. The socio-economic assessment component of the ESA was tendered to local consultants.
 The successful bidder, Wekita Consultant, started fieldwork in May 2003. The main thrust of the
 fieldwork was to obtain a full understanding of the socio-economic environment of the project areas
 (Section 5.3 of ESA). Simultaneously, all aspects of the physical and biological environment were
 examined in detail to establish pre-project conditions, assess the degree of impact, and to design and plan
 the implementation and monitoring of mitigation measures. The Department of Geography of the
 University of Asmara was largely responsible for compiling these sections, (i.e., Section 5.1 on Physical
 Environment and Section 5.2 on Biological Environment.) The detailed ESA investigations were
 conducted in June/July of 2003. The potential beneficiaries were consulted and issues discussed through
 the field work gathering. In addition, a stakeholders' workshop that was attended by 45 participants
 drawn from Government institutions and NGOs was arranged on August 1st, 2003 and recommendations
 have been incorporated in the report (see Appendix 11.7). The draft mitigation plans for the potential
 environmental impacts reflected in Chapter 6 where extensively discussed and enriched during the
 stakeholders' workshop. Finally, taking the stakeholders' recommendations and commitments, the
 cornerstone of the ESA report, the ESMMP for the project, was compiled as it appears in Chapter 9 of the
 document. DOE has also undertaken preparation of and endorsed the Resettlement Policy Framework and
 preparation of Resettlement Plans as required. Further, there is close link developed with the National
 Museum who is charged with rescue excavation work in the context of archaeological structures
 encountered during civil works.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

                                                    10
                                                                                                    ISDS




F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              1/30/2004       2/10/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          2/13/2004       2/13/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           2/10/2004       2/10/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              1/30/2004       2/10/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          2/13/2004       2/13/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           2/10/2004       2/10/2004

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Paivi Koljonen                                     03/03/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Roxanne Hakim/Person/World Bank                    04/03/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:     Amadou Konare/Person/World Bank                    04/03/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomas E. Walton                                        04/03/2004
Sector Manager                        Yusupha Crookes                                    04/03/2004

