                                         Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         Report No: 43732-ER




                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                             ON A

                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 10.8MILLION
                             (US$17.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                                  THE STATE OF ERITREA

                                            FOR A

           POWERDISTRIBUTION AND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT

                                         May 19,2008




Energy Group
SustainableDevelopment Department
Africa Region

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
mithorimtion

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 16,2008)

                        Currency Unit = EritreanNakfa (ERN)
                          15.375ERN = US$l
                            1.630US$ = SDRl

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1   - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

4RGeo    African Rift Valley GeothermalProgram
3bl      barrel(crude oil)
:St      centistoke
DSCR     Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EEC      EritreanElectric Corporation
EIRR     Economic InternalRate o f Return
EMP      EnvironmentalManagementPlan
ERC      EritreanRegulatoryCommittee
ESA      Environmentand Social Assessment
ESMMP    Environmentaland Social Management and Monitoring Plan
GEF      GlobalEnvironmentFacility
FMR      FinancialMonitoring Report
FRR      FinancialRate of Return
GoE      Government of Eritrea
GWh      Gigawatt hour
HAMSET   HIV/AIDS/STI, TB, Malariaand Reproductive HealthProject
HIV/AIDS Human immunodeficiencyvirus/ Acquired immune deficiency syndrome
HFO       Heavy FuelOil
IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
IFR       InterimFinancialReport
ISN       InterimStrategy Note
IRR       InternalRate of Return
kW        kilowatt
kWh       kilowatt hour
LV        Low Voltage
MIS       ManagementInformationSystem
MEM       Ministry of Energy and Mines
MV        MediumVoltage
MW        Megawatt
NFA       Nakfa
NPV       Net Present Value
PMU       ProjectManagementUnit
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
ROA       Returnon Assets
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
SFR       SeIfFinancingRatio
TOR       Terms of Reference

           Vice President        ObiageliK. Ezekwesili
           Country Director      Colin Bruce
           Sector Manager        Subramaniam V. Iyer
           Team Leader           Kyran O'Sullivan

                                                                                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                            ERITREA
                           PowerDistribution and Rural Electrification Project
                                                   Additional Financing

                                                          CONTENTS


                                                                                                                                                    Pages

  I Introduction......................................................................................................................................
   .                                                                                                                                                    1
  I1.     BackgroundAnd Rationale For Additional Financing                         ...............................................................      2
  111.    ProposedChanges    .................................................................................................................. 6
  IV      Consistency With Interim Strategy Note (ISN)                  .........................................................................       7
  V       Economic And FinancialAnalysis             ...........................................................................................        7
  VI      Appraisal Of RestructuredOr Scaled-Up Project Activities                          .....................................................      10
  VI1     ExpectedOutcomes     ..............................................................................................................          12
  VI11
    ..... Benefits And Risks  ...............................................................................................................          13
  IX.     FinancialTerms And ConditionsFor Additional Financing                             .....................................................      14

  Annex 1: RevisedProjectCosts And FinancingPlan                       ........................................................................
  Annex 2: RevisedAllocation Of Credit And Grant ProceedsBy Category And By Component                                                       ...........15
                                                                                                                                                       18
  Annex 3. Procurement Arrangements             ..............................................................................................         18
  Annex 4: EconomicAnd FinancialAnalysis                  ....................................................................................         25
  Annex 5:    Results Framework(Revised)           ...........................................................................................         31
  Annex 6: Government Letter Of Sector Policy                .................................................................................         35
  Annex 7. Technical Details Of GenerationPlantsAt Hirgigo. BelezaAnd Assab                                          ...............................   36
  Annex 8: MainstreamingHIVlAIDS In EEC Workplace                             ..................................................................       37
  Annex 9: Statement of Loan and Credits            .......................................................................................... 38
  Annex 10: Country at a Glance     .........................................................................................................          39

  MAP IBRD36187




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                                    ii


                                             ERITREA
                      PowerDistributionand RuralElectrificationProject
                                      AdditionalFinancing

                                    ProjectPaper DataSheet




       Electrification Project                     Country Director: Colin Bruce
                                                   Environmentalcategory:B


Responsibleagency: Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) and EritreanElectricity Corporation




Current closingdate: June 30, 2009
Revisedclosingdate: June 30, 2010

Indicate ifthe restructuringis:

Board approved                                                                  Yes
RVP approved
Does the restructuredproject requireany exceptions to Bank policies?            No
Havethese beenapproved by Bank management?                                      NIA
Is approval for any policy exceptionsought from the Board?                      No
Revisedproject development objective/outcomes
(i)Expansionofelectricity accessinruralareas;
(ii)Improvethequalityandadequacyoftheelectricity supply;
(iii)Regulatory and institutional reforms in the sector to increaseefficiency.

Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpolicies? No.

Already triggered Safeguard Policies include thefollowing OPs and BPs: Environment
Assessment (4.Ol), Physical Cultural Resources (4.II),and Involuntary Resettlement (4.12).




IDA




                                                 ...
                                                 111


I.Introduction

1. This ProjectPaper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectorsto provide an additional
grant inthe amount of SDR 10.8 million (US$ 17.5 million equivalent)to the State of Eritreafor
the Power Distributionand RuralElectrificationProject (GR H114ER). The proposedadditional
grant would support the completionofthe ongoingPart A: Asmara component ofthe projectto
rehabilitatethe distributionsystem inthe city inview of cost overruns arisingfrom higher unit
costs of electricalmaterials. The additionalgrant would also support a new component for the
overhaul and rehabilitationof key power generation plants at Hirgigo, BelezaandAssab.
Overhaul and rehabilitationofthe generation plants will ensure that electricity supply is
maintained andoutages are avoided. Overhaul has beenpostponedas the cost ofthe replacement
parts couldnot be funded from EEC's capitalexpenditure program. While well operated power
companies finance the rehabilitationoftheir generation plants from internalfunds, EEC cannot
presently do so as its revenueshave been insufficientto meet its operatingexpenses since 2006
when internationalfuel prices beganto rise (more than 70 percent of EEC's costs are for fuel
purchases for generation). Ifoil prices hadremainedat their pre 2006 levels, EEC would have
beenable to carry out the rehabilitationfrom its internalresources.

2. The benefits of the rehabilitationof the distributionsystem (Part A: Asmara component) can
only be realizedifelectricity supply security is ensured i.e. ifkey generation plantsthat serve
Asmara are overhauledand rehabilitated. In contrast with some two dozen countries in sub-
Saharan Africa that are facingacute power crises, Eritreahas managedto date to maintain
electricity supply with its oil based generation plants. However, these plants are in need of urgent
overhaul and spare parts. Some units already have exceededtheir scheduled overhaultime
(24,000 hours of operation) andthe other unitswill exceed it inthe comingmonths. Delaying
plantrehabilitationwould cause the plantsto fail, leadingto brownouts and blackouts beginning
in2009 and eventuallya systemcollapse within two or three years. Delay would cause damage
to the unitsand increasethe cost of carryingout rehabilitationlater. The proposedadditional
financingwouldthus enablethe Recipientto achieve the projecttargets of serving 90,000
electricity customers in Asmara with reliableservice and ensuringcontinuedquality and
adequacy of electricity service throughout the country.

3.  The total value of the principal contract to implement the ongoingprojectcomponentfor
rehabilitationofthe distribution system (Part A: Asmara component) has increasedfrom US$31
million to approximatelyUS$ 39 million due to increase in priceof electrical materials and
services. Sincethe undisbursed amount of US$ 37 million in the ongoingproject is largely
committed, the increasedcost for the Asmara component is proposedto be financed by
reallocatingUS$ 1.4 million earmarked inthe project for ruralelectrification,expected savingof
approximately US$2.1 million due to SDR/US$exchange rate change and IDA additional
financingof US$4.5 million. Additionalfinancingwill enable this contract and project
componentto be completed and enable the original project objectiveof improvedreliability and
quality of electricity supply to be met.

4. Ongoingproject activities to strengthenthe institutionalcapacity of key energy sector
agencies includingregulatoryand institutionalreforms inthe sector to increase efficiencywill
continue, includinga feasibility study for renewable(geothermal) energy development.

5.  Restructuringofthe project is deemednecessarydue to changedcountry and external
circumstances. These includeweak non-agriculturegrowth that has reduced electricity demand
growththus impactingutility revenues, a more difficult operating environment for the private
sector and public expenditure restraint that reduces available public funding for electricity

infrastructuremaintenance. Externalfactors includecontinuinghighoil prices and steep
increases in the costs of electrical equipment (e.g. poles, switchgear & cables). Thus the
restructured projectobjectivesare orientedto improvingefficiency of electricityservice delivery
and to the institutionalchangesthat underpinefficiency. By improvingefficiency inservice
delivery and by puttingin placeappropriate institutionalstructures, the project will establish the
pre-conditionsfor a sustainable programof electricity service expansion when other country
conditions are favorable.The results framework has been revisedto be consistent with the revised
project objectives and the restructured projectcomponents. Financialmanagementand
procurementarrangements, institutionalroles and responsibilitiesremainunchanged. The closing
date is June 30,2010.

6. The Project is consistent with the Interim Strategy Note(ISN)FYO8-FY10

11.Backgroundand Rationalefor Additional Financing

Country and Sector Context

7. Eritreahas one ofthe lowest per capitaincomes inthe world (US$200)' but has relatively
better social indicators. The country's institutionaldisciplineand social cohesion have
underpinnedthese welfare gains. Economicgrowth was weak in 2007. Bordertensions continue
to put pressureon public finances. The fiscal positionhas improvedbecauseoftight expenditure
controlby the government. Price controls and regulations, in additionto the uncertainbusiness
climate, have caused privatesector activity to fall. Risks to the economic outlook remainhigh.

8. WorldBank Project Portfolio. World Bank projectshaveexperiencedimplementation
problems as a resultof capacity constraints andthe economic environment. However,after a
concertedeffort to improveportfolio performance includingstepped up supervision, projects
rated "problem projects" were reduced from 43 percent to 20 percent. Projects at risk remainat
about 80 percentmainly due to two country risk flags. The Power Distributionand Rural
ElectrificationProjectis currently ratedsatisfactory on the likelihoodof achieving its
development objectivesand marginally satisfactory on its implementationprogress

9. Sector Status. Salient features of the electricity sector that are relevant to.the proposed
additionalfinancingfor the project includethe following:

    Electricity access is approximately 33 percent nationally in 2007. This is high compared to
    other countries that have similar or even higher levelso f per capitaincome.

0   In recent years despite two tariff increases since 2004 and an excellentrecord on billing and
    collection(95 percent) the utility (EEC) is operatingat a loss.

    EEC's financial performance has beenaffected by slow economic growth. This is reflected
    in industry's falling share of electricity consumption. From around 60 percent of total
    electricity consumption in 1997198, industry's share fell to 26 percent in 2006. Higher sales
    would reduce EEC's unit costs o f electricity produced.

0   EEC's financial performance has also been negatively affected by the increase in
    international petroleum prices. Eritrea imports all the petroleum(heavy fuel oil and diesel)
    used in its thermal power plants that total approximately 150 MW installed capacity. Less
    than 1 percent o f its installedcapacity is from renewable energy sources (850 kW pilot wind
    project was commissioned and is operational since December 2007). There is good potential



                                                  2

    for increased contribution of renewable energy source for electricity supply (about 30 MW
    geothermal has been preliminarily identifiedand there is additionalwind energy potential).

10. Government Policy The Government has updated its Letter of Sector Policy in March2008
(Annex 6) that outlines near term measuresto reestablishEEC's financial sustainability.These
include deferralofthe transfer to EEC ofthe debt incurred in the constructionofthe Hirgigo
generation,tariffincrease and adjustment ofthe Nakfa/US$exchangerate appliedto EEC's fuel
purchases.Followingtransmittalofthe Letter, the Government implementeda 10percent
increase inelectricitytariffs that is reflectedin electricitybills sent to customers in May 2008. In
its Letter,the Governmentalso outlines its intentto operationalizethe EritreanElectricity
Committee; develop renewableenergy resources; rehabilitategeneration plants to ensure
continued`reliabilityof electricity supply; and promote community and privatesector
participationin rural energy service delivery.

Project Description

11. The Project was approvedon July 6,2004. The Development FinancingAgreement (as
amended) for the Projectbetweenthe State of Eritrea(the Recipient)and the International
DevelopmentAssociation(IDA) was signed on September 22,2004 and becameeffective on
December20,2004. The projectwas financedwith a mix of credit and grant. Ofthe total IDA
Credit of SDR 20.0 million, SDR 4.36 million (22 percent) has beendisbursed.Ofthe total Grant
of SDR 14.5 million, SDR 8.74 million (60 percent) has beendisbursed. The ClosingDate was
extendedfrom June 30,2009 to June 30,2010 on December 12,2007.

12. Project's Original Objectives. The project's originalobjectiveswere: (a) carryingout a
sustainable program for the expansionof access to electricity; (b) improvingthe quality and
adequacy of the electricitysupply in its territory; and (c) strengtheningthe institutionalcapacity
of key energy sector agencies includingregulatoryand institutionalreforms in the sector to
increase efficiency and attract privateparticipation.

13. Restructured Project's Objectives. Restructuringofthe project is necessary due to changed
country and externalcircumstances outlined in paragraph4 above. It is appropriate inthe current
country context to restructurethe project'sobjectivesso that they are orientedto improving
quality and adequacy of electricityservice delivery and efficiency of EEC's operations.
Achievement of these objectiveswill establishthe pre-conditionsfor a sustainable program o f
electricity service expansionwhen other country conditions such as stronger economic growth
and a more enablingenvironmentfor privatesector participationinthe sector becomemore
favorable.

    0    1 PDO: Expansion of electricity access in rural areas. The fundamental change in this
        objective is to adjust the current objectiveby deferringa programmaticexpansionof
        access with privateparticipationuntil financingconditions are more favorable.The
        ongoingproject is financingconstructionof medium and low voltage lines to extendthe
        electricity networkto about 59 ruraltowns and villages. It is anticipatedthat about 70
        percent o f households in these towns will be connectedto the service on completionof
        the project. As part of Government's effortsto strengthen EEC's financial situation,
        EEC's investment program will be curtailedand large investmentsto expand rural
        electrificationare likely to be delayed duringthe next few years. Thus, a sustainable
        program for the expansionof electricity access with privatesector participationwill
        necessarily have to be deferred until conditions improve.




                                                  3

         2"dPDO:Improve the quality and adequacy of the electricity supply. This objective
         remains essentially unchanged. The ongoing investment component for the Asmara
         system rehabilitation addresses this objective. Current system losses are about 24 percent
         of net generation. Muchof the technical losses are due to the aging distribution system
         especially inAsmara. The electricity distribution system inAsmara (that accounts for
         about 80 percent of the utility's customers) is more than 40 years old and has high
         technical losses (18 percent) and poor quality of supply (e.g. voltage fluctuation). It is
         anticipated that the technical losses in Asmara will be reducedto about 7 percent at the
         completion of the project. Reduction of power losses will also reduce the quantity of fuel
         oil EEC would otherwise use to meet demand.At current prices, the fuel savings would
         amount to more than U S 2 million per annum. The proposednew component for
         rehabilitation of the generation plants at Hirgigo and Beleza also addresses the objective
         of improving the quality, adequacy and reliability of electricity supply. These plants are
         in need of urgent overhaul and spares. Unless the rehabilitation is carried out, the plants
         will in all likelihood begin to fail i.e. brownouts and blackouts beginning in2009 and
         eventual system collapse can be expectedafter two or three years. Financing the
         rehabilitation will help ensure that Eritrea manages to avoid such a power crisis.

         3rdPDO:Regulatory and institutional reforms in the sector to increase eflciency. The
         key change to this objective is to focus it on electricity sector operational efficiency
         improvements which are fundamental to sectoral financial health. A number of
         institutional development activities under the project will contribute to improved
         efficiency in sector operations. These include a new billing system that will improve bill
         accuracy and integrate billing information with a new accounting system thus providing
         EEC's managementwith greatly improved customer information. Non-technical losses
         that are mainly due to metering and billing deficiencies should be reduced to less than 3
         percent of electricity sales (Le. within industry norms) in Asmara upon successful
         completion of the project. Other efficiencies that will be achieved include improved
         stock control. Other activities under the project that are focused on institutional
         strengthening for the Ministry of Energy and Mines include activities to support more
         transparent regulation and preparation of an Operation Manual for the Government's
         Rural electrification fund.

The original and restructured project objectives are shown in Table 1.


                 OriginalPDOs                           RevisedPDO of restructured project
 (a) Carryingout a sustainable program for           (i)Expansionofelectricity accessinrural
 the expansionof access to electricity.              areas.
 (b) Improvingthe quality and adequacy of            (ii)Improvethequalityandadequacyofthe
 the electricity supply in its territory.            electricity supply.
  (c) Strengtheningthe institutional capacity        (iii)Regulatoryandinstitutional reformsin
 o f key energy sector agencies including            the sector to increaseefficiency.
 regulatory and institutionalreforms in the
 sector to increase efficiency and attract
 private participation.

14. A revised results framework that is consistent with the project's restructured objectives is
included in Annex 5. It shows progress to date (May 2008) in each of the project's components
and in its overall objectives.



                                                     4

  15. Proposed Use ofAdditiona1 Financing. Additional financing is proposedfor the projectfor
 the currentcomponent Part A Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation and for a new componentPart
 FRehabilitation of Generation Plants.

  16. Additional financingto meet a financing gaD in Part A Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation.
 The financing gap is due to: (i)a variation order that will replace wooden poles with steel poles;
 and (ii)price increase following applicationofautomatic priceescalation clauses inthe contract
 that are basedon changes in internationalmaterials prices such as copper, aluminumand steel.
 These affect the contractbetweenthe implementingagency EEC and the contractorfor this
 component (Asea Brown Boveriof Spain). The contract value was US$31.067 million (against
 which the IDA Credit financedUS$28 million). The currentestimate of cost overrun is
 anticipatedto be approximatelyUS$ 8.0 million (US$ 3.0 million for variation order; US$4.6
 million for priceadjustment as per contract terms; US$0.4 million for consultant services). SDR
 currency appreciationsavings of approximatelyUS$2 million will also be appliedto the
,financing gap in the Asmara component. Approximately US$ 1.4 million earmarkedfor the rural
 electrificationfund (Part C ofthe project)will be reallocated to Part A to fill the remaining
 financing gap.

  17. Additional financing for Rehabilitationof Generation Plants (US$ 13 million). The
 restructuredproject includes a new component to carry out overhaul and rehabilitationof EEC's
 main generation plants at Hirgigo, Belezaand Assab. This use of additionalfinancing falls under
 category (b) ofthe Guidelinesfor Additional Financingwhich providefor activities that scale up
 aproject 's impact and development effectiveness.

  18. Proiect Implementation Arrangements. There will be no changeto the project's
 implementationarrangements. The two implementingagencies will continue to be the Ministry
 of Energy and Mines (MEM) and EEC.

 Project Progress

 19. Implementation Progress. Overall, the project is in good standing and is performing
 satisfactorily.Its DevelopmentObjectiveis rated satisfactoryand ImplementationProgress is
 rated moderately satisfactory. Howeverthe implementingagency EEC has not been able to
 comply with financial covenants largely due to externalfactors such as an increase in its fuel bill
 due to sharply increasedoil prices and slow growth of electricitysales due to economic
 conditionsin Eritrea. The restructured projecthas revisedfinancial performancetargets basedon
 it achievingfinancial sustainabilityin aphasedmanner-first, meetingits operatingcosts within
 the timeframe of the project and inthe medium term, meetingall its obligations includingdebt
 service. This is a key motivationfor restructuringthe projectand the use of additionalfinancing
 to ensure the projectachieves its development objectives.

 20. Substantial disbursements o f approximatelyUS$13 million will be effectedin the Asmara
 component through December2008 that will reduce the disbursement lagofthe project.Orders
 have beenplaced and manufacturingis underway for large items of electricalgoods in this
 component includingswitchgear, cable and transformers. Shipment o f large quantitiesof
 materialhas beenmade to the site and civil works have commenced on a new substation inthis
 component. The ruralelectrificationcomponent has been implementingsmoothlyand will be
 completedby June 2008. Components of the project for institutionalstrengthening (includingthe
 procurement o fmodern billing and accountingsystems at EEC and trainingof finance department
 staff to ensure its implementation)have been delayed but an action planto ensuretheir
 implementationhas been agreed. A planto complete the installationand implementationofthe



                                                 5

new billing and accountingsystem Management InformationSystem(MIS)by October2009 has
beenagreed by EEC and the Consultant.

21. Risks. Country factors (e.g. shortages oftransport fuels) have contributedto delays in
implementation. The Asmara networkrehabilitationhas experienced delays in its design phase in
part becauseofthe complexity in completelyreplacingthe old medium and low voltage (LV and
MV) distributionnetwork in the historicalcenter of Asmara. To implementthe Asmara electricity
networkrehabilitation, EEC has entered into a turnkey (design, installationand commissioning)
contract with an internationalcompany that is one ofthe leaders in electricitynetwork
constructionto implementthe entire component. Consultants (owner's engineers) financedby the
projectsupport EEC in implementingthe Asmara component.Additional financingcombined
with projectrestructuringis expectedto ensure successful completionofthe project components
and thus establish efficiency improvements that are the pre-conditionsfor sustainable electricity
sector operations once the country macroeconomicenvironmentimproves.

Rationale for Additional Financing

22. The Government has requestedadditionalfinancingin view of a financinggap in Part A of
the project(Asmara DistributionRehabilitation). The financinggap arises for mainly two
reasons: (i) change in cost of electricalequipment in part due to increasedinternationalcost of
metals(e.g. aluminum, steel and copper) usedintheir manufacture; and (ii)change orders in the
final networkdesign. The major change order concerns the partialreplacementof wooden with
costlier steel poles. The final design specifies use of steel poles in the confinedareas of the
historic city where it is not possible to use wooden poles with stays. The use of suitable wooden
poles of sufficientstrength will nevertheless be optimized(e.g. wooden poles ofsufficient
strength can be used with stays in more open areas of the city where space is not so constricting)
in order to avoid unnecessarycost increaseassociatedwith the use of steel poles.

23. The Government has also requestedadditionalfinancingfor a new component in the
restructured project. This is to carry out overhaul and rehabilitationof EEC's maingeneration
plants at Hirgigo, Belezaand Assab. These plants have beenmaintainedin very good operating
conditionby EEC to date. All units are now (March2008) at or approachingthe number of hours
o f operation when they shouldbe overhauled. Deferral ofthe rehabilitationwill undermine the
reliability ofthese plants leadingto likely brownouts and blackouts beginningin 2009 and
eventual systemcollapse after two or three years. A key rationalefor additionalfinancing is
therefore to fund the rehabilitationofthe generationplants to ensurethat Eritreamanages to avoid
a power crisis. While well operatedpower companiesfinance the rehabilitationoftheir
generationplants from internalfunds, EEC cannot do so as its revenues have been insufficientto
meet its operatingexpensessince 2006 when internationalfuel prices beganto increase. Ifoil
prices had remainedat their previous2006 levels EEC would have been able to carry out the
rehabilitationfrom its internalresources.

111. Proposed Changes

24. Proposedchange relates to the project costs and financingplan, project objectives,outcome
indicators, projectscope and closingdate as detailedelsewhere inthe ProjectPaper. Projectfunds
(SDR 970,000) that were earmarkedfor Part C RuralElectrificationFundwill be reallocatedto
partiallymeetthe financing gap in Part A ofthe project.Therefore, sub-projects that were partof
Part C in the original project will no longer be financed. Procurementarrangementshave slightly
altered. Thresholds have been reset and a few categories of procurementdeleted from those
allowedas they are no longer envisaged. Financialmanagement, institutionalroles and



                                                   6

responsibilities remainunchanged. Revisedprojectcosts and financing plan are presented in
Annex 1.

25. An additional study will be undertakenby the Ministry of Energy and Mines as part of the
ongoingstudies program (Part D.1. ofthe project) to carry out surfaceexploration(geochemical
and geophysical surveys) at Alid where there is geothermalpotential (30 MW). This study will
provide necessary information on which a proposal under the GEF financedARGeo Geothermal
Development Programme- Risk Mitigation Fundcan be basedto carry out more extensive
exploration (including drilling). Developmentofthe geothermalresource at Alid would
contributeto energy security in Eritreaand thus also to the project's development objective of
improving the quality and adequacy of the electricity supply.

IV. Consistencywith Interim Strategy Note(ISN)

26. The project is consistent with the objectiveof the ISNFYO8-FY10which is to further focus
Bank supportto deliver improvedhumandevelopmentand infrastructureservices. The ISN
outlines in its lessons learnedthat the Bankneedsto focus its program in sectors where it has a
good track recordand good working relationshipwith implementingagencies. The Bank's
relationshipwith the MEM and with the implementingagency EEC is excellent.

27. Government Letter of Sector Policy. MEM has updatedits Letter of Sector Policy in March
2008 (Annex 2) that reaffirms its vision to ensure EEC's financial sustainability in the longer
term and outlines near term measures to achieve that objective. In its Letter, the Governmentalso
reaffirms its commitment to developingrenewableenergy resources, rehabilitating generation
plants and promoting community and private sector participation in rural energy service delivery.

28. Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS in EEC Workplace. An objective ofthe ISNis to "reduce
incidence of communicative disease and improve reproductive health care". The project is
consistent with this objective and with goals ofthe HIV/AIDS/STI, TB, Malaria and
ReproductiveHealth Project(HAMSET) that is Bank supported. EEC has collaboratedwith the
Ministry of Healthto target over 1,100 staff in its HIV work place program. The main HIV
workplace interventions taking place in EEC include information sharing, counselingand
promoting behavior change among staff members. Fromthe year 2008 onwards EEC plansto
expand the HIV mainstreamingactivities to cover both: (i)the currently ongoing internal HIV
mainstreamingactivities targetingthe EEC employees; and (ii)externalHIV mainstreaming
activities targetingthe customers, relatives and friends who interactwith EEC employees (Annex
8 for detailed descriptionof activities).

V. Economicand FinancialAnalysis

29. The economic and financial analysis ofthe restructuredproject with additional finance has
been updated (Annex 4: Economic and FinancialAnalysis). The methodologyusedto carry out
the economic and financial analysis update is similar to that ofthe original project.

Economic Analysis

30. The economic benefit ofthe Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion Component
with additional financing has increased comparedto the original project from 18 percentto 20
percent IRR. The reasons for the increased economic benefit ofthe project with Additional
Financingare provided below:




                                                  7

    (a) Due to the increase inthe initial years demand (from 132 GWh in 2004 when the project
         was originally to commence to 145 GWh in 2007 when it actually commenced) resulting
         in an increase in initial benefits, this componentyields higher economic benefit.

    (b) Duringthe appraisalof the main project, the cost of crude oil on average was assumed to
         be about US$30 per barrel (bbl) in the base case analysis. The sensitivity analysis of
         economic benefits in relation to crude oil prices showed that with increasein oil prices,
         consumer's economic benefit due to the project increases.   '


31. The economic net present benefit of the Power Plant Rehabilitation Component comes to
about US$ 4 million at 12 percent discount rate and the economic rate of return is about 27           ,
percent.

32. Total cost of rehabilitation for the major three power plants is calculated to be about US$ 13
million. It is expectedthat with successful renovation, EEC will be able to reducethe power
plants forced outages and increase its generationsignificantly. EEC's average cost of generation
is calculated to measure the cost of this increasedelectricity. According to the survey conducted
in 2006, households spend a total of NFA 188 per month on lighting (NFA 103 for kerosene,
candles and batteries and NFA 85 for electricity). Comparing this cost with average urban
household expenditure for electricity bill of NFA 170 per month shows a consumer surplus of
NFA 18 per month with any outage. This is a conservative estimate o f consumer surplus as it
only measures the surplus of domestic consumers and does not take into account the consumer
surplus of commercial and industrial consumers, whose consumer surplus would be much higher
comparedto households as they wijl have direct loss of productivity and income due to poor
quality o f electricity supply.

Financial Analysis

33. The financial rate of return in the Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion
Component with additional financing has been reducedfrom 10 percent to 7 percent.

34. EEC's electricity generation is totally liquid fuel based. Hence its cost of production is
directly relatedto the international oil market. Since 2004, the cost of petroleum has experienced
a steady increase. From US$30/bbl in 2004, the average crude oil price in 2007 was US$71/bbl.
To cope with this increaseEEC has increased its electricity tariff in 2004 by 15 percent, in 2005
by 24 percent ,in 2006 by 10 percent, reaching an average billing rate of NFA 2.39 per kilowatt
hour (kWh) or about 15 cents/kWh in 2008 before a tariff increase in May 2008. At the current
level of tariff, EEC is unable to meet its operating costs.

EEC'sProjectedFinancial Performance:

35. The Government envisages that financial sustainability of EEC will be achieved in a phased
manner- in the first phase it should achieve a positive cash operating status and over time it
should meet all its obligations including debt services. A number of actions are available to the
Government to set EEC on this path. They include:

    0    Billing its domestic consumers in Massawa and Assab at the same level of its domestic
        consumers in other areas from March 2008 onwards.

    0   Continue with the financial restructuring o f EEC by delaying the transfer of the Hirgigo
         loan to EEC by another four years, Le. until such time that EEC's sales increaseup to



                                                    8

                           level where it will be able to service the loan of Hirgigo. Starting in 2012 the
                           government may start to return 10 percent of the Hirgigo loan to EEC per annum.

                     0     Equalize Exchangerateto official rate for fuel purchase. The official rate ofNFA/US$is
                           15.75 in 2007. However, when EEC purchases fuel diesel oil and HFOto operate its
                           generationplants(from EritreaPetroleumCorporation), it is chargedusingan exchange
                           rate of 18NFA/US$. This increasesEEC's fuel cost significantly. Ifthe exchange rate
                           for EECto purchase fuel is equalizedto the officialrate, then EEC's fuel cost would         I


                           reducesignificantly from its current level.

                           Curtail use of costly generationplantsto supply electricity in the isolated grid areas.
                           EEC's generationcost of the isolatedplantsare very high and its own calculation shows
                           that the current EECtariff does not allow EEC to recover its fuel cost for those areas, let
                           alone, labor, depreciation, financial charges and other costs. Hence, either government
                           may allow a different tariff structurefor EEC to supply electricity to those areas, or
                           provide a direct and transparentsubsidy to continueelectricity supply to those areas, or to
                           ration supply (as it is currently doing) to some a few hours per day to reduceEEC's costs.

                           Beselectiveindeciding EEC's investmentProgram. Given the current performancelevel
                           of EEC, Governmentand EEC should be very selectivein deciding its investment
                           program. They should select only those investmentchoiceswhich will ensure positive
                           economic and financial returns. Ifgovernment insiststhat EEC undertakeprojectsthat
                           have long term social gains but negative financial return, then governmentshould also
                           provide financial assistance to EECto operate those projects.

                           Increase EEC's Tariff. EEC's currenttariff of 2007 is NFA 2.48kWh, equivalent to US
                           Cents 15.72kWh. In 2007, EEC's Net Loss was about NFA 64 million. Inorder to cover
                           this loss only by increasingEEC's tariff, it would have to be increased by 20 percentto a
                           level ofNFA 2.97kWh or US Cents 18.85/kWh. In May 2008, the Government
                           increasedtariffs by 10 percent across all categoriesof customers.

               36. By delayingthe transfer to EEC of the debt incurred in constructionofthe Hirgigo generation
               plant until 2012, equalizing exchange rate for purchasingfuel, and increasingthe tariff by 10
               percentin each ofthree years (2008to 2010) EEC would start to earn apositive return and
               contributeto its investmentprogramstartingfrom its fiscal year 2010 (Le. from January 1,2010).
               Its Debt ServiceCoverageRatio would exceed 1.3 from 2010 onwards.




Debt Service Coverage Ratio                         1.16I    1.64I     1.67/   2.92 1   0.58      1.05I    1.46I    1.58I  1.60
Self Financing Ratio ( percent)             1    - e v ~ ~ - e v ~ ~
                                                        I        I       151    143       38        4       27 I     80     7 8 ,




                                                                     9

VI. Appraisal ofRestructuredand New ProjectActivity

37. There is no change to the scope of Part A:      Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban
Electricity Distribution in Asmara of the project for which additional financing o f US$4.5 million
is proposed.

38. Proposednew component Part F: Rehabilitationof Generation Plants. The benefits of the
rehabilitation ofthe distribution system (Asmara component) can only be realized ifelectricity
supply security is ensured i.e. ifkey generationplants that serve Asmara are rehabilitated. In
contrast with some two dozen countries in sub Saharan Africa facing acute power crisis, Eritrea
has managed to date to maintain electricity supply with its oil based generation plants and stay
out of crisis. Proposedsupport for rehabilitating the plants is critical for Eritrea to avert a power
crisis and complementsthe on-going rehabilitation o fthe Asmara distribution system. The
generatingunits at the main plant (Hirgigo), which accountsfor about 80 percent ofthe
generatingcapacity in the interconnectedsystem, were installed in 1998 and 2000. The older
smaller plants at Beleza and Assab also require rehabilitation. As per standard international
                                                                                                  ,
practice and industry standards, they will require major overhaul betweennow and end 2009.
Some units already have exceeded their scheduledoverhaul dates and the rest will exceed them in
the coming months. Delayingplant rehabilitation would cause the plants to fail, leading to
brownouts and blackouts beginning in 2009 and eventually a system collapse after two to three
years. Delay would also increase the cost ofcarrying out rehabilitation later as more components
would require replacement. Rehabilitation of plants can be completed over a twelve month
ending in October 2009 and will enable EEC to meet current and anticipated electricity demand
growth over the next three years or more.

39. While well operated power companies finance the rehabilitation of their generation plants
from internal funds, EEC cannot do so as its revenues have been insufficient to meet its operating
expenses since 2006 when international fuel prices began to rise (more than 70 percent of its costs
are for fuel purchases). Ifoil prices had remainedat their pre-2006 levels EEC would have been
able to carry out the rehabilitation from its internal resources.

40. Hirgigo generation plant. All four gensets with M A N B&W 12K60MC-S engines and ABB
alternatorsrated 22 M W are operating on Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) at reasonableaverage load
(between 70 percent and 76 percent). InMarch 2008, DGUl has exceeded24,000 hours overhaul
time by more than 1,500 hours and the DGU4 16,000 hours overhaul is overdue for more than
2,000 hours. The two other gensets will reach24,000 hours overhaul during 2008.

41. Beleza. Beleza power plant has three Wartsila Vasa 64 Diesel engines with a rated capacity of
5.7 M W operating on Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO). In March 2008, due to the technical conditions of
the engines (overdue maintenancedue to lack of spare parts) the maximum load on the engine
cannot exceed 4.9 M W and the engines are normally operated around 4.5 MW. All cylinder heads
are facing significant cavitation problems in the exhaust valve seats cooling water area. Therefore
all the cylinder heads need to be replaced or repaired.The Beleza plant is operating mainly as
peak shaving plant and to cover low load phases in which the load is too low to run two engines
in Hirgigo. Beleza is required to restart Hirgigo power plant after a black-out.

42. Assab. The Assab power plant is an isolated generationplant supplying about 10,000
customersthrough a local network inthe Assab town and environs. The plant is equipped with
two Wartsila diesel engines with a capacity o f 2000 kW each, erected in 1993 and seven Mirrlees
Blackstone diesel engines of 680kW each erectedduring the year 1988. All engines run on light
diesel fuel.



                                                   10

43. EEC's capacity to implementthe rehabilitationand overhaul ofthe generation plants was
assessed duringappraisal. It was found to be good for all the work requiredwith the exceptionof
the digital control system at Hirgigo. Replacementofthe digital control system will requirethat
its manufacturer carry out the work. Appraisal confirmedthat EEC has beencarryingout routine
maintenanceas specifiedby the manufacturer ofthe generation plants.

Safeguards.

44. The proposednew activity (Part F: Rehabilitation of Generation Plants) does not change the
environmentalcategory of the project or trigger new safeguardpolicies.The project remains
category B and the existingmitigation instruments ofthe Environmentaland Social Management
and MonitoringPlan(ESMMP) and ResettlementPolicyFramework(RPF) are adequateto cover
all the activities financedunderthe additionalfinancing. Potentialenvironmentalimpacts linked
to the proposednew activity are oil spillageand fire hazard. A short addendumto the ESMMP
was disclosedinthe Infoshopon March 11,2008 prior to appraisalto describethe potential
impacts and mitigation measures. No additionalrisks were identifiedduringappraisal and
procedures with fuel storage & handlingfacilities, coolingwater systems, plant waste water and
oily water disposal systems, monitoringindicators,and fire protectionwere confirmedto conform
to industrynorms.

45. Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Electricity Distribution in Asmara. Constructionof
works in this component commenced in January 2008. The provisionsofthe ESMMPto mitigate
the impacts of this component were confirmedduringappraisal of additionalfinancing. These
provisionsincluderadio announcementsand newspaper articles to inform electricityconsumers
of aspects of the projectaffectingthem includingvoltage conversionthat will necessitate
adjustment to motors, temporary roadclosure duringtrenching, etc. Shops and residentswill be
protectedfrom dust and debris throughthe use of dust sheets and water spray and temporary
access to buildingsfacilitatedby means oftemporary ramps duringtrenching. Ifany shop
(including street vendors) is forcedto shut temporarilythe project will be responsibleto pay
compensationas per the Resettlement Policy Framework.

Bank Policies

46. The restructuringdoes not involveany exceptions to Bank policies.

FinancialManagementand Disbursement.

47. Ongoingstandard disbursement arrangements will apply to ongoingcomponents and to the
proposedcomponentRehabilitation of the generationplants at Hirgigo, Belezaand Assab and
additional technicaladvisoryservices envisagedto implementand supervise this component. The
revisedDisbursement Schedule is shown in Annex 2.

48. Financialmanagementreview of the Projectwas last carriedout in February 2008. The
review covered project accountingand reportingarrangements,internalcontrol procedures,
planningand budgeting, counterpart funding, funds flow management, externalaudit reporting
arrangementsand project accounting staff issues.The FinancialManagementratingfor the
Project'wasrated Moderately Satisfactory(MS) at appraisal o f additionalfinancing. The
correspondingFM Risk Ratingis Substantial (S). The FM arrangements are adequate and
continueto providereasonableassurancethat Bank funds are beingusedfor the intended
purposes.




                                                1 1

49. The accounting informationsystem in EEC has major weaknessesthat are beingremedied
under the project.A financialspecialistconsultant financed under the project is assistingEECto
procure and implement a modemaccountingsystemthat will interfacewith a new billingsystem
that will also be procured, installedand made operationalas part ofthe project. An
implementationplan has been preparedthat should ensure that the new billing and accounting
system is made operationalby October 2009.

50. EEC does not have approved financialproceduresmanual. A draft financial manual has been
preparedthat will be approvedby the Bank and be implemented by December2008.

5 1. The inventorycontrolsystem in EEC needsto be strengthened.A computerizedstock
managemeht systemwill be implementedas part ofthe upgradingprogram of the EEC's MIS.
The system shouldpreferably networkthe majorstores to the headquartersand be integratedto
the accountingsystem and will be implemented by October 2009.

52. The two agencies MEM and EEC will from 2008 onwards submit Interim FinancialReports
(IFRs) from the date of approvalofthe additionalfinancing. The changeover from SOEto
report-baseddisbursement method will take effect from January 2009.

Procurement

5 3 . At the country level, Procurementrisk is rated as Moderate (c.f. Section VIII). The country
does not still have updated procurement systems and proceduresin line with international
acceptable practices; the institutionalcapacity is weak; and public procurement ofgoods has been
centralized, which affects opencompetitionand efficiency. The capacity ofthe public sector in
procurement planning, executionand in contract managementis weak due to lack of experienced
technicalstaff in procurementand management.The capacity ofthe privatesector (construction,
manufacturing, supplies and consultingservices) is low. However, despite the country level
difficulties outlined above, MEM and EEC have so far managedproject procurement
satisfactorily as evidenced by contracts carriedout so far. MEM and EEC follow World Bank
ProcurementGuidelines, use adequately prepared procurement plans and to the extent possible
take appropriateaction in case of poor or slow progress.MEM and EEC staff are committedto
efficiency, have capacity to supervise contracts and to identify cases requiringexternaltechnical
assistance.There have beenno cases suspectedto be involvingcorruption or such other
irregularities.At the project levelProcurement residualrisk is rated as Moderate. See also Annex
3 - ProcurementArrangements.

VII. ExpectedOutcomes

54. The projectoutcome targets have been updatedconsistent with its restructuredobjectives. By
projectclosingthe projecttargets are:

     e    70 percent o f total populationin 59 ruraltowns & villages have electricityservice

     e    System losses in Asmara are reducedto 7 percent of electricity supplied

          Generation plants (Hirgigo, Beleza and Assab) achieve 90 percent capacity utilization
          rate or better (defined for the purposes o f the project as the ratio of the generation plants'
          operating capacity (Le. capacity available for dispatch) and their installed (nameplate)
          capacity.




                                                   12

    0    EEC achieves a self financingratio(SFR) that is positive.

    0    Billing and accounting methods in EEC conform to international good practice to be
         measured by efficiency indicators including bill accuracy, number of customer
         complaints, and time taken to processbills.

         Electricity Regulatory Committee (ERC) will have issued written regulatory
         orderldirectives.

VIII. Benefits and Risks

55. Overall risk rating is High comparedto Substantial at appraisal on account of a combination
of changedcountry and project specific risks. The Projectrelatedrisks include implementation
capacity whereasthe country specific risks include(a) regionalinstability arisingfrom the failure
of the State of Eritreaand Republic of Ethiopiato resolve the border conflict, (b) the macro-
economic framework which leavesthe economy vulnerableto crises, and (c) shortage of foreign
exchange supplies.

56. Projectrisksare rated High due to implementationcapacity in EEC and potentialdelay in
finalizing engineeringdesigns for the investment component inthe Asmara contract. These risks
are mitigatedby consultant services (owner's engineer) to assist EEC supervisethe contractor in
the Asmara component. At the project level (MEM and EEC) governance risks are rated are
Average. There is stronggovernment ownership of the project. With regardto the project
specific risksarisingfrom the High procurementrisks, the Bank will increase procurement
trainingamong staff involvedin project implementation. Also, analytic work on public financial
management(PFM) in Eritreais not available. In addressingthis weakness, the Bank will be
ready to offer support for technicalassistance,analyticalwork, and capacity building to improve
public financial managementand procurementpracticeswhile ensuringsatisfactory fiduciary
practices in Bank-financedprojectsthroughproject-specific.

57. Failureto make progress indemarcatingthe Ethiopia-Eritreaborder has resulted in increased
tension and potentialvolatility, contributingto regional instability inthe Hornof Africa as well as
economic fragility in Eritrea. As such, the whole Eritreaportfolio, includingthis project, faces
High risksof regionalinstability. Inaddressingthis risk, the Bank will continue to express
support for resolutionby peaceful means and in the context ofthe Algiers Peace Agreement. If
instability becomessevere, the Bank will work with other partners to identify a collective
response. It will scale back or suspendfinancial assistance, ifthe situationwarrants. Ifthe
situationimproves, the Bank should be preparedto enhance its support.

58. Another portfolio-wide risk ratedHigh results from the overall weak macro-economic
framework. The management of the fiscal and trade deficitsthrough price controls and
regulationsleave the economy vulnerableto economic crisis. This could result in highor hyper-
inflation and/or debt default.In mitigatingthis risk, the Bank will pursue dialogue on
revenue/expenditureand debt management, largely in the context ofthe Article IV missions. It
will be vigilant for potentialentry points and will work with other donors that have madecapacity
building central to their program of support, such as EC, to identify the potentialfor Bank
assistance.

59. High oil prices are a risk to EEC regainingfinancialsustainability as fuel oil for electricity
generation account for more than 70 percent of its costs. This High risk is mitigatedby the
commitmentof the Ministry of Energy and Mines to ensure EEC's financial sustainability in the

longer term and to implementnear-termmeasuressuch as implementinga disconnectionpolicy
for non-payment, increasingaverage tariffs (the most recent tariff increasewas in May 2008 that
raisedtariffs by 10 percent on average), restricteduse of costly diesel engines that supply
electricity in smalltowns and debt restructuring. It is committedto goal of EEC meeting
performancerequirements in accordance with commercialpractice. To this end, it intendsto
introducea regulatorysystem for the sector in a phasedmanner. The projectwill ensure reliable
supply ofelectricity in Asmara and throughout the country with positiveimpact on households
and businesses. High technicallosses in electricity distributiondue to antiquated infrastructure
will be reducedwith positiveimpact on EEC's financial sustainability.

IX. FinancialTerms and Conditions for Additional Financing

60. Standard IDA grant terms would apply to the additionalfinancing.




                                                 14

                     Annex 1: Revised Project Costs and FinancingPlan

Table 1: Revised Project Costs

 Project cost by component        Local        Foreign  Total
                                   US$          US$
                                  million      million  million

 Asmara distribution                                      40.00
 rehabilitation                 I
 RuralElectrification                 2.93   I   12.27    15.20
 RuralElectrificationFund             0.00 I      0.00
 Sector reform & institutional        0.29        4.05
 Environmentalmonitoring              0.24        0.19
 Generationplant rehabilitation       0.30       13.00    13.30
 Total baseline cost                  6.42       66.85    73.27
I                               I            I
 Physical Contingencies               0.46   I     1.05
 Price Contingencies                  1.71         1.47
 Total Project Cost             I      8.6   11   69.4
                                I            I


 Project cost by category         Local        Foreign  Total
                                   US$          US$     US$
                                 million       million  million



 Supply and Installation              7.67  1    48.05

 Goods                                0.34   1   14.35    14.69
 ConsultingServices                   0.35        6.29
 Training                             0.07        0.64
 Incrementaloperating costs           0.07        0.00
 EnvironmentalCompensation            0.08        0.00      0.08


                                                       78.01




                                               15

 Table 2: Original Project Costs

   Project cost by component      Local    Foreign   Total
                                  US$       US$      US$
                                 million   million  million


 rehabilitation
 Rural Electrification               2.90    10.87    13.77




    Project cost by category      Local    Foreign  Total
                                  US$       US$      US$
                                 million   million  million

 Supply and lnstallation             6.75 I  40.22 I 46.97
 Works
 Goods                               0.04      1.65     1.69
 ConsultingServices                  0.35     5.82     6.17
 Training                            0.07     0.64     0.72
1Incrementaloperatingcosts      I    0.07 I   0.00 I   0.07 I
 RE fund                             0.00      1.41     1.41
 EnvironmentalCompensation           0.08     0.00     0.08

 Total project cost                   7.4 I   49.7 I   57.1




                                           16

~         A          L                                          10,800,000
                   ~~ r20,000,000     14,500,000    14,500,000
AMOUNT
       Category           Credit      Original     Revised     Additional      Percentage of
                        Allocated      Grant      Amounts of     Grant      Expendituresto be
                        (expressed   Allocated     Original    (expressed        Financed
                         in SDR)     (expressed     Grant       in SDR)     (inclusive of Taxes)
                                      in SDR)     (expressed
                                                   in SDR)

(1)Works                      10,000                                       100percent of      '
                                                                           foreign expenditures
                                                                           and 85 percent of
                                                                           local expenditures

(2) Supply and            17,350,000   6,900,000     7,870,000   3,000,000
 Installation                                                              100percent of
(a) for Part A            17,350,000                   970,000   2,800,000 foreign expenditures

(b) for Part B                         6,900,000     6,900,000             and 85 percentof
                                                                           local expenditure
(c) for Part F                                                     200,000
(3) Goods                              1,060,000     1,060,000   7,800,000 100percent of
                                                                           foreign expenditures
(a) for Part D.2                       1,030,000                           and 85 percent of
                                                                           local expenditure
(b) for Part D.1,                         30,000        30,000
D.3 and E
(c) for Part F                                                   7,800,000
(4) Consultants'                       2,920,000     2,920,000
Services and
Audits
(a) for Part A                         1,340,000     1,340,000
(b) for Part B                           430,000       430,000             100 percent of
(c) for Part D.1                         620,000       620,000             foreign expenditures
(d) for Part D.2                         380,000       380,000             and 85 percent of
(e) for Part D.3                          90,000        90,000             local expenditure
( f ) for Part F                          60,000        60,000

(5) Training and                         490,000 +     490,000
Workshops
(a) For Part D.2                         280,000      280,000              100 percent
(b) For Part D.1,                        2 10,000
D.3, and E                                            210,000
6) Subgrants                             970,O00                           100percent of the
under Part C of                                                            amount disbursed
the Project
(7) Operating                             50,000        50,000             85 percent
costs
(8) Refundingof                          690,O00      690,000              Section 2.02 (c) of
Project                                                                    the Original
Preparation                                                                Agreement
Advance
(9) Unallocated           2,640,000    1,420,000     1,420,000


                                                     17

Annex 2: RevisedAllocation of Credit and Grant Proceedsby Category and By Component



                               Annex 3. ProcurementArrangements

1.       Introduction:This Annex is an updateof the "Annex 6(A): ProcurementArrangements"
of the Project Appraisal Document of the Asmara Power Distribution and Rural Electrification
Project, prepared inJune 2004. This Annex provides additional information and addresses
emerging issues on procurement implementation.for the project as it relatesto ongoingand
proposed extensionactivities.

2.       Procurement risks:The Country Procurementenvironment remains the same as it was
during appraisalof the project in 2004. At the country level, governance risks, of which
Procurement is a subset, is rated as High. The country does not still have updatedprocurement
systems and procedures in line with international acceptablepractices; the institutionalcapacity is
weak; and public procurement of goods has been centralized, which affects open competition and
efficiency. The capacity of the public sector in procurementplanning, execution and incontract
management is weak due to lack of experiencedtechnical staff in procurement and management.
The capacity of the private sector (construction, manufacturing, supplies and consulting services)
is low. Because of the prevailingpolitical situation, competition by foreign bidders is also low.
However the situation has been made worse by shortages of fuel and deregistration of local
contractors. However, despite the country level difficulties outlined above, MEMand EEC have
so far managed project procurement satisfactorily as indicated below and evidenced by contracts
carried out so far. MEMand EEC follow World Bank ProcurementGuidelines, use adequately
prepared procurementplans and to the extent possible take appropriate action incase of poor or
slow progress.The case oftaking appropriate action is evidencedby the way EEC handled and
resolvedthe difficulties on the complex contract for Asmara Power Distribution and
Rehabilitation. MEM and EEC staff are committed to efficiency, have capacity to supervise
contracts and to identify cases requiringexternal technical assistance. There have'beenno cases
suspected to be involving corruption or such other irregularities. At project level (MEM and EEC)
governance risks, of which Procurement is a subset, is rated as Average.

3.       Progressmade on procurementand signs for the future:Overall the assessment of
procurement implementation under the project shows a positive situation and encouraging results.
All five (5) Technical Assistance/consulting contracts on the Projects ProcurementPlanto be
implemented by MEM' have been implemented except for one contract (design of the Rural
ElectrificationFund Operational Manual) which is progressingsatisfactorily and will be
completed by June 2008. Of the four (4) Technical Assistance/consulting contracts on the
ProjectsProcurement Plan to be implemented by EEC', only one contract has not been
completed, that is the MIS design and supervision. Inthis case, the consultant was successfully
selected, signed and started the contract but has failed to complete the MIS bidding documents.
The contract for rural electrification (distribution) by Siemens will be completed by end April,
2008. Implementation of Asmara Power Rehabilitation and Distribution is underway in March

'The  TechnicalAssistance/consulting contracts.implemented by MEM as per their Procurement Plan are
(I)Power Sector Reforms, (2) Tariffstudy Update, (3) Design of ER Fund, (4) Setting regulatoryfunction,
and (5) Appointment of a Training Coordinator.

 The TechnicalAssistance/consulting contracts implemented by EEC as per their Procurement Plan are
(I)FinancialAdviser to reform EEC accountingsystems , (2) MISdesign and implementation, (3)
Corporateplanningfor EECs, and (4) Institutional strengtheningfor EEC.

                                                   18

20083,although it is morethan one year behindschedule due to delay in finalizing the technical
design. EEC andABB have agreed on a revisedwork schedule that indicatescompletion by
November 2009.

4.        MitigatingprocurementRisks:Risk mitigation is addressedat the project level.
Becauseofthe (i)low capacity ofthe local contractors(including deregistrationof local
contractors) and suppliers, and (ii)low competition by foreign biddersfor procurementof civil
works and goods, the projectdepends and will continue to depend on foreign contractorsworking
in associationwith local contractorsand suppliers.For Consulting services, the low capacity of
public and private sectors will continue to be overcomeby employing internationalfirms to carry
out planning, design and procurementimplementation. The project will to the extent possible
apply extensionsof existing contracts and use LIB procedures.

5.        Scope of procurement:The major contracts envisagedunder the current and extended
contract are listed below and are on the attached procurementplan.

      (i)ThecompletionoftheAsmaraPowerRehabilitationandDistribution:Theworkis
          ongoing. Any requiredamendments to the scope ofthe contract will be by way of a
          negotiatedamendment, subject to Bank clearance ifthe amendment exceeds 15 percent
          above the contract price. So far, the major amendment is resulting from change of
          wooden polesto steel, which is beingdiscussed between contractor and EEC.

      (ii)SupervisionservicesforAsmaraPowerRehabilitationandDistributioncontract
          will continue to be provided by BP Power Consultantsas per current contract. Any
          requiredamendments to the scope o fthe contract will be by way of a negotiated
          amendment, subject to Bank clearance ifthe amendment exceeds 15 percent above the
          contract price.

     (iii)The MIS designand supervision: This contract was delayeddue to poor coordination
          and changes to the scope that became evident during its identification phase. EEC has
          now definedthe scope ofthe MISthat it wishes to procure.The redefinedscope focuses
          on the billing and accountingsystem. A revised implementationplanthat is acceptable to
          the Bank has been preparedthat envisages completion of this component i.e. installation
          and operationalizinga modern billing and accounting system in EEC by October '09. The
          procurementofthe MIS will include ICB, NCB and shopping methods. Domestic
          preference.wil1be given to the procurementof hardware componentsofthe MIS in order
          to better ensure project sustainabilitythrough the participation of local equipment
          suppliers.

     (iv) Rehabilitation of Generating plants:A consultanthas carried out an assessmento f the
          generationplants and will assist EEC to prepare a rehabilitation plan and will be
          responsible for supervisionand certification of rehabilitation ofthe generatingplants.
          This consultanthas been selected on CQ basis from a shortlist of 6 qualified consultants.
          Proprietary spare parts for the rehabilitation of the Generatingplants will be procured
          by direct contract with manufacturers.General spare parts will be procured by ICB,
          NCB or shoppingas the case, dependingon contract price. The actual rehabilitation
          (overhauling the plants) will be carried by EEC whose capacity has been assessed to be
          more than adequate based on their track record in maintaining the plants in excellent


  At Appraisal of additional financing (March '08) civil works had started at the new substation at Asmara
North and materials (cables, transformers and equipment, including heavy trucks) had been delivered to the
site in Asmara.

                                                    19

         condition. One element ofthe rehabilitation(replacementof the DataControl System)
         howeverwill not be in EEC's competenceto do. This will be done by the manufacturers
         of the DCS (by direct contract).

    (v) Technical Assistanceto MEM:It is envisagedthat the Ministry will requireTA for
         various tasks to be identifiedduringimplementation.Selection will follow appropriate
         methodsas described inthe projectdocument.

    (vi) The projectwill finance a feasibility study for Geothermaland Geologicalmappingto
         explore the possibilityof geothermalpower generation. This feasibility study will be
         linkedto the greater African Rift Valley Geothermal Program. This is a specialized study
         that will be procured onbasis of LIB,targetedto specialized firms inthis kind of
         assignment.

6.       In additionthe above provisions,the procurement arrangements inthe "Annex 6(A):
ProcurementArrangements" ofthe Project Appraisal Document.ofthe Asmara Power
Distributionand RuralElectrificationProject, preparedJune 2004, have beenmodifiedas
fo1lows:

    (i) The Procurement arrangements in the 2004 Procurement Guidelineswith corrigenda
         October 2006 will apply to all new procurement contracts, includingthose associated
         with activitiesfunded under the original project.

    (ii) Procurement contracts andthresholds for methodsand prior review are specifiedon the
         ProcurementPlan and are summarized on Attachment2 below.Any new contracts not on
         the Procurementplanor whose threshold is not on the Procurementplanwill follow the
         thresholds on Attachment 1.

    (iii)The following methods specifiedin the original agreementwill not apply for Selection of
         Consultants: Quality BasedSelection and Selection Under a FixedBudget. All sole
         source contracts will be subject to prior review.

    (iv) The frequency of procurement supervisionis 6 months.




                                                 20

                   Thresholds for Procurement methods and prior review

Expenditure          I Contract Value     IProcurement          IContracts subject
Category                                   Method                to Prior Review
Works and Supply       Above US$500,000    ICB                   All
and Installation       US$75,000-500,000   NCB
                       Below US$75,000     Shopping

Goods                  Above US$250,000    JCB                   All
                       US$50,000-          NCB                   None
                       US$250,000          Shopping              None
                       Below US$50,000
Services Firms         Above US$ 100,000   QCBS                  All
                       Below US$lOO,OOO  , CQ                    TOR only
Services Individuals   Above US$ 50,000    IC                    All
                       Below US$50,000     IC                    TOR only
Works and Supply       All                 Sole source or Direct All
and Installation,
goods and services




                                           21

      m           m u.
      8          P  e     8b
      N             naE   n
                  B B     I58
                           E




                         z
                         4




            h

            v
            4             ?
            VI
            0             L
            Q              9
            2
            s             3M


           .v,
           20
            -            4
                         z
            0



           hs
           0
           ss1
            v,
                        z4


           0


           8
           Q
           0
           c?    z
                 d  4
                    z   4
           s            z



            W
                 z
                 4  z
                    4     d
                          z


     AW
                          $Ln




m
0     m
      u                  8.


      0                   8
      c-
      N
      8                   8
      2                   b4

      b9
      Vl                  x5
      3


4    m                   m
ia
E     n.
      E                 n.
                         t

YW   I?w   Yw     I?w          H
                             -
m
53                             m
            P-                 P
n
b           O
            0
            N                  n
                               b
E           .-
            P                   E
4>          z
                             - P
a
0
            vi
a
b           0                  a
          3 Y                  z
zB
B           E
-                            -
                  vi
                  0
                  0                  m
            -6
            W     N            m     0
v
4    v                         P
a8   a2     0
            0
            N                  .d
                               5     <9
                  0-                 3
                  m
     0                               00
     N            2n
                  i            4
                             - -
            E
            vi    vi
                  N
                  0
                  0

           m.     -            4     z
                                     Q
           N      m            z
          d       a
                  d
           U




e,
n
8                 P     zQ  2
                            a



                                         m
                                         N
                                     >
                                     M




                               x
                  0
                  0        8   0

                  O*      *Z
                               0
                  (A
                  0
                  d         m  (A
                               d
                  5        5   5
                          -
     m                     U -n
    a5           86         5
                 a         e  a6

a
tA
a


      d
      N

                              Annex 4: Economic and FinancialAnalysis

1.      The economic and financial analysis ofthe restructured projectwith additionalfinance
hasbeenupdated.The methodology usedto carry out the economic and financial analysis update
is similar to that o f the originalproject (c.f. Annex 4 of original project PAD).

EconomicAnalysis

Asmara Distribution Rehabilitation and ExpansionComponent:




                                     .      OriginalProject      With Additional Financing
        NPV @?12 percent                     US$12million               US$32 million
        DiscountRate
        IRR                                      18 percent               20 percent

3.      The economic benefit ofthe projectwith additionalfinancing has increasedcomparedto
the original project.'The reasonsfor the increasedeconomic benefitof the project with
Additional Financingare providedbelow:

    (a)There had been a delay in commencingthe constructionphase ofthis component. The
    component was expectedto start'inearly 2005, while now it has started from 2007. The
    energy demand of Asmara in 2004 was 132GWhand in 2007 was 145 GWh. Due to the
    increase in the initial years demand, resultingin an increase in initial benefits, this component
    with Additional Financingyields highereconomic benefit.

    (b) Asmara receives electricityfrom Hirgigo and Belezapower plants and these two plants
    generatethe cheapest electricity in Eritrea. Meetingelectricity demandfrom any other
    sources in Eritreawould be more expensive. Duringthe appraisal of the mainproject,the
    cost of crude oil on averagewas assumedto be about US$30/bbl in the base case analysis.
    The sensitivity analysis o f economic benefits in relationto crude oil prices showed that with
    increase in oil prices, consumer's economic benefit due to the project increases.The updated
    economic analysis of the project with Additional Financingthe benefits were calculated using
    averagecrude oil price US$70/bblfor the base case. Hencethe economic benefito f this
    component is much highercomparedto the previouscalculationsat appraisal of the original
    project.




                                                    25

Power Plant Rehabilitation:

4.       The two power plants that supply power to the integrated system (ICs) through 132 k V
and 66 kV transmission lines are Hirgigo and Beleza power plants. The firm capacities of these
power plants are 74.8 M W and 14.4 M W respectively. These plants will not reachthe threshold
in their operating hours when a major overhaul is due (according to their design specifications) to
avoid risk of forced outages and more expensive rehabilitation inthe future ifthe plants were
operated without overhaul. The additional financing will finance a new component to rehabilitate
these power plants. In addition to the power plants connected with ICs system, the Assab power
plant will also be rehabilitated.

5.       Total cost of rehabilitation for the major three power plants is calculated to be about US$
9 million. `It is expectedthat with successfulrenovation, EEC will be able to reduce the power
plants forced outages and increase its generationsignificantly. EEC's average cost of generation
is calculated to measure the cost of this increasedelectricity.

Cost-benefit Analysis:

                                               I
                                                     Power Plant Rehabilitation


                 NPV @ 12 percent                          US$ 3.93 million
                 Discount Rate


                                                              27 percent
               I                               I                                        I


6.       According to the survey conducted in 2006, householdsspend a total of NFA 188 per
month on lighting (NFA 103 for kerosene, candles and batteriesand NFA 85 for electricity).
Comparing this cost with average urban household expenditure for electricity bill of NFA 170 per
month shows a consumer surplus of NFA 18 per month with any outage. This is a conservative
estimate of consumer surplus as it only measures the surplus of domestic consumers and doesn't
take into account the consumer surplus o f commercial and industrial consumers, whose consumer
surplus would be much higher comparedto households as they will have direct loss of
productivity and income due to poor quality of electricity supply.

7.       Based on the above assumptions the economic net present benefit ofthe Power Plant
Rehabilitation Component comes to about US$4 million at 12 percent discount rate and the
economic rate of return is about 27 percent.

FinancialAnalysis

Asmara DistributionRehabilitationand ExpansionComponent:

Cost-benefit Analvsis

                                           Original Project       With Additional Financing
     NPV @ 12 percent                    US$4.5(-ve) million       US$ 15.35 (-ve) million
     Discount Rate
     IRR                                      10 Dercent                    7 Dercent



                                                 26

8.       EEC's electricity generationis totally liquid fuel based. Hence its cost of production is
directly relatedto the internationaloil market. Since 2004, the cost of petroleumhas experienced
a steady increase. From US$30/bbl in 2004, the average crude oil price in 2007 was US$71hbl.
To cope with this increase EEC has increased its electricity tariff in 2004 by 15 percent, in 2005
by 24 percentand in 2006 by 10percent, reachingan average billing rate ofNFA 2.39kWh
(about 15 centskWh) in 2008. In2006, Eritrea faced an economic downturn and EEC electricity
sales droppedsignificantly. As several industriescloseddown, EEC lost its largest customers.
Since then, to stimulate business development, Government has not increased the tariff after
2006. Consequently EEC's revenuegap has widened. At the current level oftariff, EEC is             '


unableto meet its operatingcosts. Hence the project's financial rate of return with additional
financing has reducedcomparedto the original project's financial rate of return.

Rural ElectrificationComponent:




                                          OriginalProject        With AdditionalFinancing


      NPV @ 12 percent                  US$ 1.5(-ve) million         US$ 3.39 (+e) million
      DiscountRate


      IRR                                      7 percent                   6 percent


9.       The macro economic factors affecting the financial returns inthe Asmara Distribution
Rehabilitationand Expansioncomponent have also affectedthe Rural Electrification component
negatively. As a result, the project with additional financing has lower financial rate of return
compared to the main project.

EEC's Projected FinancialPerformance:

10.      In 2004 Governmentcarried out a financial restructuringin EEC's capital structure by
taking over 70 percent o f EEC's debt for the Hirgigo Power Plant. Governmenttook this
responsibility because the energy demand o f Eritrea, in 2004 didn't allow EEC to utilize more
than 30 percent of its Hirgigo Power Plant capacity. This financial restructuringwas done in
2004 assuming that by 2008 EEC's energy demand will increase and from 2008 onwards,
Government will transfer back 10 percentof Hirgigo loans to EEC per annum. Unfortunately,
since the Eritreaeconomy didn't perform as expected over the last couple of years, EEC's sales
have not grown enough to take on this Hirgigo loan startingfrom 2008. IfGovernmentdecides to
transferthe Hirgigo Loan to EEC then its financial performancewill further deteriorate.

11.     According to the Bank's Credit Covenants, startingfrom 2006, EEC was to earn a
positive return on assets, maintain at least 1.3 Debt ServiceCoverage Ratio, contributeto its
investment program and maintain accounts receivablenot more than 60 days of sales equivalent.
Dueto factors outsideits control such as the steep increaseinoil processand the downturn inthe
economy these targets are not achievable in the short run. Thus the Government now envisages
that financial sustainability of EEC will be achieved in a phased manner. In a first phase, EEC
should achieve a positive cash operating status and over time meet all its obligations including
debt service.



                                                  27

Recommendationsto Improve EEC's FinancialPerformance:

12.       IncreaseDomestic Tariff in Massawa and Assab. A tariff study was carriedout under
the projectand one of the recommendationswas to increasethe tariff of domestic consumers in
Massawa and Assab to the same level of domesticconsumers in other areas. The Government
has informedthe Bankthat it intendsto implementthis recommendationand it is expected that
EEC will start billing its domestic consumers inMassawa and Assab at the same level of its
domestic consumers in other areas from March 2008 onwards. While the revenue impact ofthis
action is not very significant, it will result in some increased revenuefor EEC.

13.       Delay Loan Repaymentfor Hirgigo for another 4 years. According to the financial
restructuringcarried out in 2004, Governmentshould return 10 percentof Hirgigo Loans to
EEC's balance sheet every year. This would increaseEEC's debt repaymentburden, while its
sales have not increased significantly to be able to accommodate this increase in cost. Hence the
government may continue with the financial restructuringby delaying the transfer of the Hirgigo
loanto EEC by another four years Le. until such time that EEC's sales increase up to level where
it will be able to service the loanof Hirgigo. From 2012 the governmentmay start to return 10
percentof Hirgigo loanto EEC per annum. This will give EEC some relief; however, this action
alone will not enable EEC to reach asustainablefinancial performancelevel.

14.       EqualizeExchange rate to official rate for fuel purchase. The officialrate of
NFA/US$ is 15.75 in 2007. However, when EEC purchases fuel diesel oil and HFOto operate its
generation plants(from Eritrea PetroleumCorporation), it is charged usingan exchange rate of 18
NFA/US$. This increases EEC's fuel cost significantly. Ifthe exchange rate for EEC to
purchase fuel is equalizedto the official rate, then EEC's fuel cost would reduce significantly
from its current level.

15.      Rationsupply in the isolatedgrid areas. EEC's generationcost o fthe isolatedplants
are very high and its own calculationshows that the current EEC tariff doesn't even allow EEC to
recover its fuel cost for those areas, let alone, labor, depreciation, financial charges and other
costs. Hence, either government may allow a different tariff structurefor EEC to supply
electricity to those areas, or provide a direct and transparentsubsidy to continue electricity supply
to those areas, or to ration supply (as it is currently doing) to some a few hours per day to reduce
EEC's costs.

16.       Be selective in deciding EEC's investment Program. Given the current performance
level o f EEC, Governmentand EEC should be very selective in deciding its investment program.
They should select only those investmentchoices which will ensure positive economic and
financial returns. Ifgovernment insistsfor EEC to take on projects that has longterm social gains
but negative financial return, then government should also provide financial assistanceto EEC to
operate those projects.

17.      Increase EEC's Tariff. EEC's currenttariff o f 2007 is NFA 2.48ikWh, equivalent to
US Cents 15.72/kWh. In 2007 EEC's Net Loss was aboutNFA 64 million. In order to cover this
loss only by increasingEEC's tariff, it wodd have to be increased by 20 percentto a level o f
NFA 2.97/kWh or US Cents 18.85/kWh.

18.      The cumulative impact of some of the above recommendationson EEC's
financial performance i s providedbelow.

Definition and cumulative impactof each scenario:




                                                    28

 19.     Businessas Usual. This scenario refers to no change in EEC's business practices from
2007 leveltill 2012. Inthis scenario, EEC's financialperformance continuesto deteriorate and
EEC's operationbecomesunsustainable. Its Net Loss increasesto aboutNFA 200 million in
2008 and further increasesto about NFA 350 million by 2012.

20.      Delay Hirgigo LoanRepayment.Inthis scenario EEC's cost would reduce by the loan
repayment amount ofthe 10percent of Hirgigo loans and associated interest payments. However,
EEC's Net Loss still remains high at about NFA 186million in 2008 and about NFA 276 million
in 2012.

21.      Equalize ExchangeRate for Fuel Purchase.By implementingthis recommendation
EEC would reduce itsNet Loss in 2008 to about NFA 122million and it remainsat NFA 200
million in 2012. Tariff requirement to earn a positivereturnremains at about NFA 3.2/kWh
level.

22.      Tariff increase by 10 percentfor three years. Only after this interventionwould EEC
start to earn a positivereturnfrom 2009 onwards. Tariff level would need to be around NFA
3.2kWh to ensure a positivereturn.

23.      Selective InvestmentProgram. By beingselective in its investment program, EEC can
enhance its financial performance. Inthis scenario, only by delayingEEC's investment program
by 1-2years, could EEC improve its performance significantly.


                                           Net Income after each intervention
                      100.0

                       500




                      (50 0)


                  i  (1000)

                     (1500)
                  5:(2000)

                    (250 0)

                    (300 0)

                    (350 0)

                    (4000)   1                            ..                                     1

                                2007        2008          2009       2010       2011      2012
                                                            Wscal Year
                  tBusinessAsUsual                            +Delay     HirggoLoanRepayment

                   A   EqualizeExchangeRate for Fuel Purchase -x increase by 10%for three years
                                                                   Tariff
                 -+-Selective  Investment Progam



Financial PerformanceIndicators of EEC:

24.      By delaying loan repayment for Hirgigotill 2012, equalizingexchange rate for
purchasing fuel, and increasingthe tariff by 10percent in each o f three years (2008 to 2010) EEC
would start to earn a positivereturn and contribute to its investment program startingfrom 2009.
Its Debt Service Coverage Ratio would exceed 1.3 from 2010 onwards.

30

     3
     m

8
L

5

n
e
v)         5Ec?
            e&-
a
&e
w
zz




                   m
                   m




      S d

H    6



L

                                  Annex 6: Government Letter of Sector Policy

1.      The Government providedthe Bank and update of its power sector policy on March26,2008 that is part
ofthe projectfile. In its letterthe Government reaffirms its vision to ensure EEC's financialsustainabilityin the
longer term and outlinesnear term measureson financial restructuring,tariff adjustment and adjustment ofthe
Nakfddollar exchange rate applied to EEC's fuel purchases.The Governmentalso outlines inthe letter, its
intentto operationalizethe EritreanElectricity Committee; develop renewableenergy resources; rehabilitate
generation plants to ensurecontinuedreliability of electricitysupply; and promote community and privatesector
participationin rural energy service delivery.

2.      To recover EEC's financial strength, the Government in its letterdeclares that it will undertakethe
following measures.

            Postponethe transfer ofthe Hirgigo Power Plant loanto EEC by a further four years.

            Equalizethe Nakfa/US$exchangerateto the official rate that is appliedto EEC's purchasesof fuel.

             IncreaseEEC's averagetariffto take account of inflation (by about 10percent per year).

3.      The Government implemented its undertakingon tariff increasestwo months after issuingthe Letter
when in May 2008 it increasedtariffs by 10per cent for all categories of EECcustomers.

4.      The Letterdoes not referto some good policiesand practicesthat are routinelybeingimplementedthat
containEEC's costs. These includea disconnectionpolicy for nonpayment and restrictionof the hours of
service in remote villages and towns to 4 hours a day. These towns and villages are served by isolated
generation sets that have higher unit costs than those in the integrated system so reductioninthe hours of service
reducesfuel use and thus reducesEEC'scosts. EEC also reduces its collectioncosts by involving village
committees in bill collection and payment and by allowing meter sharingin ruralvillages.




                                                        35

               Annex 7. Technical Details of Generation Plants at Hirgigo, Beleza and Assab

1. The Hirgigo Power Plant

The entire equipment o fthe power plantwas supplied and contracted for erectionand commissioningto Doosan
EngineCo., Ltdof South Korea.The power plantcommencedcommercialoperationin 2003 and is madeto
operate in parallelwith the existinggeneration unitsat Beleza located about 15 km to the northof Asmarato
form the backboneofthe InterconnectionSystem(ICs) of supply.The four gensets are MAN- B&W made,
type 12 K60MC-S,2-stroke slow speed (149.2 rpm) equippedwith all auxiliary service components. They are
designedto consume heavy fuel oil (420 cSt) regulatedby Alfa Lava1Alcap separators.The overall operationof
the power plant is controlledby a fully integratedDCS system.At presentthe units are using 180cSt fuel.

2. Belezapower plant.

The Beleza power plant is equippedwith three gensets, each with capacity of 5700 kW, mediumspeed (500
rpm), 4-stroke, WartsilaVASA 46 engine commissioned in 1995.They operate inparallelwith existing
generatingunits at Hirgigo in Massawa..Theengines are designedto burnheavy fuel oil (420 cSt) and presently
they use 180cSt fuel.

3. Assab power plant and other SCS power plants:

The Assab power plant is equipped with two 4-stroke medium speed(1000 rpm) WartsilaVASA 16V22MD-D
diesel engines with acapacity of 2000 kW each, erected in 1993.The plant is also equipped with seven Mirrlees
Blackstone ESL8 dieselsets four strokes, medium speed(750rpm) engines with capacity of 680kW each erected
duringthe year 1988.Compressedair is usedfor startingthe units. All gensets runon light diesel fuel.




                                                      36

                           Annex 8: MainstreamingHIV/AIDS in EECWorkplace

1.      EEC has collaboratedwith the Ministry of Healthto establishover 1,I00 staff that are targetedby the
HIVwork placeprogramwhich has establishedwith 5 groups of 75 peer educators ledby afacilitator for each
ofthe groups.The peer groups are composed of over 60 percentyoung people aged 30 years and below. The
main HIV work place interventionstaking place in EEC include:

    0   Downloading information and sharing learningon HIV

        Invitingpeople living with HIV to share experiences and learning

        Invitingelders to undertakeHIV counselingand skills building amongthe peer group members

    0   Peer group members promoting behavior change amongstaff members in EEC

2.      From the year 2008 onwards EEC plansto expand the HIV mainstreamingactivities to cover both (i)
the currently ongoing internal HIV mainstreamingactivities targetingthe EEC employees; and (ii)external HIV
mainstreamingactivities targetingthe customers, relatives and friends who interactwith EEC employees.

3.      In the proposedinternal mainstreamingactivities, EEC will target the employeeswith:

        Continuation of the activities of peer groups and establishment of additional peer groups, at least 5
        additional peer groups will be establishedevery year

    0   Halfyearly HIV educationaland experiencesharingtalks by guest PLHIV speakers

    0   Halfyearly group counselingand life skills sessions by community elders

    0   Video shows and sharingof HIV literatureevery two weeks amongthe peer groups

    0   Linking and referring affected staff to service delivery centers where they can receive HIV/AIDS/STI
        treatment, care and support.

4.      For the external HIV mainstreamingactivities, the EEC plans:

    0   To develop and print HIV behavior change communicationmessageson the monthly electricity bills for
        customers

    0   To develop and produce HIV behavior change brochures, fliers, and stickers which are attached to and
        distributed with the customers monthly bills

    0   To build capacity for EEC peer educators to share knowledge and skills with their relatives, customers,
        and communitiesto protect themselves from HIV




                                                      37

Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits




                38

                                            Annex 10: Country at a Glance


                                     Eritrea at a dance                                                    9i2a~7

                                                        Sub-
                                                      Saharsn    LW-
                                              Eritraa  Amca    income      Deniopmem diamond'


                                                 m4.5    l70     2.493
                                                         e42      650                  Life expectancy
                                                0.91     648     1,562


                                                  4.1     2.4       1.4
                                                  4.0     2.6      2.3



                                                  20      36        xi
                                                  55      47        59                         I
                                                  50      96        75
                                                  40      30                   ~ccessta nnprovedwater source
                                                  69      56        75
                                                          59        61
                                                  64      92       102
                                                  71      sa       lc8
                                                  57      86        w

                                               1986     2005     2006
                                                0.89     0.97      1.1
                                                27.6     M . l    18.7
                                                29.2      8.8      8.Q
                                               -30.6    -28 3    -23.3
                                                  7.4    10.3      8.7
                                               -15.0    -14.9    -141
                                                          0.9
                                                  6.4   75.8

                                                        42.3

                                               ms       2006   2006-10

                                                 0.5     -1.o
                                                -3.4     -4.0
                                                4.1      -1.1


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                         1986  1996     2005     2006
I% d GDP)                                                                  Grrrwh of capital and ODP (a)        c
Agncunut                                        i a o   226       17:
hauuwy                                         210      226      23C
  Mewfaaunng                                     9 6     6 2       6 7
SeMW                                           610      546      595
Hwsehdd f m cotlsurnpraol>expenditure          91 8     82.2     eo9
Generalgov?fmat r n n a ~ ~ m
                            exJendRure         397      446      424
I m w s d goodsscpdSefV!Cts                    874      557      % 0




                                                                                                                I
                                                                          _.
                                                 2.3
                                                  1.5                :.
                                                -6.0                     1
                                                                          4 5




                                                             39

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINAMCE
                                             1986     1996           2005       2006
Domestrcprms                                                                                Inflation (HI                          1
6c m ,
Consumer pnces                                          10 3         19.9        167
ImplicitGCP defiator                                      9 1        14.9       1: 0
Governtitent finance
(9e of GDP mciudes wmnt grams)
Cwcnt rwenue                                           42 3
Currenttxldget balance                                  -04
Overaiisclrplusldehcd                                 -M2

TRADE

fussmllrcnsl                                 1986     1996           2005       2006        Eaport and import kwlr (US2 mill.)
T M ~ewpofts(fciJ)                                        95                               sea
  Foodand ive atvnials      '                             15
  Beveragesand tD(u1cto                                     4
  Manufactures                                            41
Tota immtts (a9                                         514
  Food                                                    05
  Fueland energy                                          40
  Capitolgoods                                          162                                                      .  .    .     .  .
Erpoct pnce m    x {2000=lOO~                           114                                       PO    01   01    P  01     B  a
l m m priceindex (200=700)                              109                                           .Expats      ~lmpons
Termsof trade (20?& 1001                                105

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                            1986      1996           2005       2006
(ZSSnrllrclrs)                                                                             Current accouni balanceto GDP (w)

Exportsofgoods and s e ~ c t e                          200            64          64
hipomof 9-a      and services                           567           572        5M           T
Resourcebalaflce                                       -367          -509       -501        'O
                                                                                             a
Netincome                                                 -0            -0         a
Netcurrentnanstws                                       271           371        353       -10

Cwent accountbalenet                                  -104           -145       -154       -20
Fmanur;j ttems (net)                                      29
Change m netreserves                                                                           I
                                                          76
Memo:
Reservesinciudinggold WSS I M ~ ~ ? S )                 126            16          16
Conversion rate :DC /oca!NS$)                            6 4         15.5       154

                                                                                                                                   I
EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                            1986      1996           2005       2006
(USS n#ilionsJ                                                                             Compositiond 2005 debt (US2 mill.)

ioia oebt outstandingand disbursed                        44         736
  19RD                                                      0           0           0                     F u 3 ' 3
  IDA                                                     77         381         415
Toto oebt sewice                                                      21
  IBRD                                                      0           0           0
  13A                                                       0           4           4
ConipiKition of net r w r c e flows
  Ofticia grants                                          9:         237
  Officia credi:ws                                          7         54
  Pwatecreditors                                            0           0
  Foreigndireciinvestwentwet infiovrsr                    37           11
  Pwtfcdw equity !net rnf'vwsl
Vvorld Bank program
  ca.nn;irents                                            18            0           0
  Disbursements                                             1         57          20
  Pnncpalrepaynients                                        0           1           1
  Me! fovis                                                 1         57           18
  Interestpayments                                          0           3           4
  Net transfers                                             i         54           16

The Wcdd Bank Group TTis ta&e was preparedby country unit staff,figures niaydiffer from other World Bank publmhd data         war07




                                                                        40

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 36187

                          38                       1839                                       40                                  41                                  42           17    43                      44

                                                                                                                     ERITREA                                                                SAUDI
37                                                                                                                                                                                         ARABIA
                                                                                            POWER DISTRIBUTION AND
                                                                                     RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
18                                       Karura
         S U D A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16

                                                                                                   CITIES                                NEW 33 kV DISTRIBUTION LINES

                                                                                                   SUBSTATIONS                           EXISTING 66 kV TRANSMISSION LINES

                                                                                                   DIESEL POWER STATIONS                 EXISTING 132 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                                             ERITREA

                                                                                                   GEOTHERMAL RESOURCE                   ZONE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                   WIND POWER STATION




                     Sela

                                               Nacfa                                                                            Dahlac

17                                                                                                                          Archipelago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                 Afabet                                                                                       R E D S E A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REPUBLIC OF

                   Kerkebet                     Halhal                                                                      Dahlak
                                                                                                      Massawa                                                                                                         YEMEN

                                                           Keren                                       Hirgigo
                                                                                                   88 MW
                                                                                  Gindae
                                                                         22 MW

                                                                      Beleza

16                                  0.7 MW   Agurdat           ASMARA                                                                                                                                                                14
              Forto                                                                                                                                              Tio

                                                Mensura                                                                  Alid Geothermal Field

                                                                                          Dekemhare
                                Mogolo
                                                                                                              Adi Keih
                                                                   Mendefera                          1.7 MW

                                1.8 MW    Barentu
                                                                                                                                                                                        Eddi
                               Gogne                              Areza
                                      Shambuko
           Tesseney
             1.2 MW


                                     Tokombia
 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    750 kW

                                                             0                50                  100               150                                                                                        Assab
                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.9 MW
                                                                                   KILOMETERS


                Omhajer                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.              E T H I O P I A
                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                         on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                         judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                         acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DJIBOUTI
      36    14                37                              38                                         39                                40  13                         41                  42                       43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAY 2008

