                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank


                                                           Report No: ICR00003139


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-49890)


                                          ON A
                                         CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR30.9 MILLION
                            (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                          FOR A

                FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                                      January 30, 2015




Finance and Markets Global Practice
AFMUG – Africa Region
                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective December 16, 2014)

                                     Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
                                          US$ 1.00 = 2,787 UGS

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                              July 1 – June 30


                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFPS       Armed Forces Pension Scheme                      NDP         National development Plan
AG         Auditor General                                  NPS         National Payment System
BoU        Bank of Uganda                                   NSSF        National Social Security Fund
CAR        Capital Adequacy Ratio                           OAG         Office of the Auditor General
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                      PAC         Public Accounts Committee
CMA        Capital Markets Authority                        PDO         Project Development Objectives
CSD        Central Securities Depositary                    PFM         Public Financial Management
DFID       Department for International Development         PPP         Public Private Partnerships
           (UK)
FMDP       Financial Market Development Plan                PROST       Pension Reform Operational Strategies
                                                                        and Tools
GTZ        Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit       PRSC        Poverty Reduction Support Credit
GIZ        Gesellschaft fur Internationale                  PSI         Policy Support Instrument
           Zusammenarbeit
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                           PSPF        Public Service Pension Fund
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results            QSA         Quality of Supervision
           Report
IMF        International Monetary Fund                      RTGS        Real Time Gross Settlement
LGPAC      Local Government Public Accounts Committee       SACCOs      Savings and Credit Associations
MoFPED     Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic       URBRA       Uganda Retirement Benefits Regulatory
           Development                                                  Authority
MoPS       Ministry of Public Service




                     Senior Global Practice Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                                  Practice Manager: Irina Astrakhan
                                 Task Team Leader: Andrea Mario Dall’Olio
                                        ICR Author: Dileep Wagle



                                                      ii	
       	
                                                               COUNTRY
                                                              Project Name


                                                               CONTENTS

A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs .................................................................................. x
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................................. x
1.    Program Content, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 9
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 18
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 27
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 28
6.    Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 31
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 33
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 34
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 36
Annex 3. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 37
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 38




                                                                       iii	
	
A. Basic Information
                                                                              Uganda - Financial
Country:                    Uganda                  Program Name:
                                                                              Sector DPL (1 of 2)
Program ID:                 P117979                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-49890
ICR Date:                   01/26/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:         DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                              UGANDA
Original Total
                            XDR 30.90M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 30.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:             XDR 30.90M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
        Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
    Concept Review:     12/14/2010       Effectiveness:            11/11/2011         10/13/2011
    Appraisal:          05/18/2011       Restructuring(s):
    Approval:           06/30/2011       Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:                  06/30/2012         06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
    Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
    Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
    Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
    Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                                   Moderately
Quality at Entry:           Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower               Moderately
                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:                  Unsatisfactory




                                                    v	
	
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Program at any time          No                                              None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                              Quality of
                        No                                                   None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
    Banking                                                             25                  25
    Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                       25                  25
    General industry and trade sector                                   25                  25
    Housing finance                                                     25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
    Financial Consumer Protection and Financial Literacy                 8                  8
    Other Private Sector Development                                    50                  50
    Regulation and competition policy                                   42                  42

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
    Vice President:           Makhtar Diop                        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
    Country Director:        Philippe Dongier                     John McIntire
Practice
                             Irina Astrakhan                      Michael J. Fuchs
Manager/Manager:
    Program Team Leader:      Andrea Mario Dall'Olio              Javier Suarez Cordero
    ICR Team Leader:          Andrea Mario Dall'Olio
    ICR Primary Author:       Dileep M. Wagle




                                                 vi	
	
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overarching development objective of the operation will be to help build a more
efficient, robust and deeper financial sector which can support broad-based private sector
growth.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

    (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
       Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values          Target Years
                    Development of a regulated & competitive industry catering to both mandatory
Indicator 1 :
                    and voluntary pension savings
                                                                             URBRA has
                                                                             licensed 63
                                                                             retirement benefit
                                                                             schemes so far.
                                                                             Preliminary
                                                                             estimates suggest
                                            Share of                         that 33% of funds
Value                                       Occupational                     have been licensed,
(quantitative or    0                       Schemes Licensed                 but on account of
Qualitative)                                by URBRA = 33%                   uncertainty
                                            by 2014                          regarding total
                                                                             number of funds
                                                                             actually in
                                                                             operation, not
                                                                             absolutely clear
                                                                             whether target was
                                                                             met.
Date achieved       06/30/2011              06/30/2014                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %            Target probably achieved (verification needed)
achievement)
	                                	




                                                vii	
	
Indicator 2 :      An effective, well resourced & efficient regulator is in place
                                                                                2013: 12 core staff
                                                                                were transferred
                                                                                from the Ministry;
                                                                                new positions
                                            URBRA staff
                                                                                advertised only in
                                            appointed; internal
                                                                                Jan 2014, and
Value                                       procedures
                                                                                recruitment still on-
(quantitative or   0                        adopted,
                                                                                going; CEO
Qualitative)                                investment
                                                                                recruitment
                                            guidelines issued
                                                                                awaiting approval.
                                            (Program target)
                                                                                URBRA's internal
                                                                                guidelines awaiting
                                                                                approval; investor
                                                                                guidelines issued.
Date achieved      06/30/2011               01/31/2013                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Partially achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      A more sustainable public sector scheme is in place (1)
                                                                                PSPF reform
                                                                                proposal submitted
Value
                                            PSPF becomes                        to Cabinet in April,
(quantitative or   PSPF not contributory
                                            contributory                        2014. Cabinet paper
Qualitative)
                                                                                drafted, but not yet
                                                                                submitted.
Date achieved      06/30/2011               06/30/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Not yet achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      A more sustainable public sector scheme is in place (2)
Value
                                            Accumulated                         Clearance of arrears
(quantitative or   Pensions in arrears
                                            arrears cleared                     still on-going
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2011               06/30/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Not yet achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Mortgage market growth
Value              2010: Ratio of        Ratio of mortgage                      1.9% by 2011,
(quantitative or   mortgage debt to GDP debt to GDP = 2%                        1.8% in 2012, 1.6%
Qualitative)       = 1%                  by 2014                                in 2013
Date achieved      06/30/2011            06/30/2014                             06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Nearly achieved.
achievement)
	                                	



                                                viii	
	
                   Increased tenor of mortgages
Indicator 6 :
                   Availability of pricing for long term funds
                                                                                Yield curve has
                                                                                become less
                                            Yield Curve for                     inelastic with
                   2010: Maturities only
Value                                       Government                          introduction of 10
                   up to 7 years; yield
(quantitative or                            securities becomes                  yr and 15 yr bonds.
                   curve flat beyond 120
Qualitative)                                less inelastic for                  Rates: Dec 2013: 3
                   months
                                            longer maturities                   mths = 10%; 10 yrs
                                                                                = 13.94%; 15 yrs =
                                                                                15.25%
Date achieved      06/30/2011               06/30/2014                          06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved (100%).
achievement)
                   Increased private sector investments in public infrastructure;
Indicator 7 :
                   Increased capacity to manage and coordinate PPPs
                                            Share of private
                   2009: Share of private
Value                                       financing in                        N/A, since PPP Bill
                   financing in
(quantitative or                            infrastructure                      approved only in
                   infrastructure
Qualitative)                                investments =                       December, 2014
                   investments = 17%
                                            30% by 2014
Date achieved      06/30/2011               06/30/2014                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Not achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Increased access and variety of financial products
                   2009: Share of formally Share of formally
                   served population =     served population
                   28%                     = 30% in 2014
                                                                                2013 : 54%
                   2009: Share of formally Share of formally
Value
                   served in rural areas = served in rural
(quantitative or                                                                2013 : 49%
                   22%                     areas = 40% in
Qualitative)
                                           2014
                                                                                2013 : 15%
                   2009: Share of
                   excluded population = Share of excluded
                   30%                     population =
                                           10% in 2014
Date achieved      06/30/2011              06/30/2014                           12/31/2014
Comments
                   Fully (100%) achieved for first two indicators; partially achieved for the third
(incl. %
                   (75%).
achievement)
	                                  	




                                                 ix	
	
Indicator 9 :      Enhanced efficiency of money transfers
                                                                            Share of adults
                                                                            receiving money
                                                                            transfers (2013) =
                                                                            55%
                   2009: Share of        Share of
                   population engaged in population
                                                                            Number of
                   money transfers = 35% engaged in money
                                                                            registered mobile
Value                                    transfers = 47% in
                                                                            money users (2013)
(quantitative or                         2014
                                                                            = 5.7 million;
Qualitative)
                                                                            however, current
                   Number of mobile         Number of Mobile
                                                                            users of mobile
                   money services = 2       Money Services =
                                                                            money (2013) =
                   million                  6 million in 2014
                                                                            9.4 million

                                                                            (All data from
                                                                            Finscope III
                                                                            Survey)
Date achieved      06/30/2011               06/30/2014                      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
          Date ISR
    No.                          DO                         IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
     1    10/12/2011         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               0.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                x	
	
1. Program Content, Development Objectives and Design

1.1        Context at Appraisal

Country and Macroeconomic Context

1.      At the time of appraisal, Uganda’s economy had registered relatively strong growth,
averaging an impressive 7.4 per cent, over the previous decade. This was achieved despite
exogenous shocks including the rise in oil prices, prolonged drought conditions and rising food
prices. The growth rate during fiscal 2009-10 slowed down to 5.8 per cent, mostly on account of
the spill-over effects of the international financial crisis, though remaining among the highest in
Sub-Saharan Africa at the time. Nevertheless, medium term growth prospects remained firm, and
economic activity rebounded in 2010-11, supported by strong recovery in credit to the private
sector, with a projected growth rate of GDP of 6.4 per cent.

2.     Inflation had been in double digits during fiscal 2008-09 as a result of high global food
and oil prices, reverting to single digits during the second half of 2009-10, as underlying
conditions improved, before rising again to 14 per cent by mid-2011. The exchange rate
depreciated somewhat as a result of a reduction of exports flows to Southern Sudan, and
uncertainties relating to the Presidential Elections, but remained stable overall.

Sector Background

3.      Uganda’s financial sector was stable, relatively well-capitalized and growing at an
average rate of 17 per cent per annum during the five years preceding appraisal. Commercial
banking accounted for the largest share, with 23 licensed banks and a network of 402 branches
by March, 2011. Total assets of the commercial banks stood at 11.8 trillion shillings in 2011,
relative to 3.5 trillion shillings five years earlier. The banking sector was supervised by the Bank
of Uganda (BOU) under the BOU Act and the Financial Institutions Statute. Other branches of
the financial sector had their own dedicated regulators such as the Capital Markets Authority
(CMA) and the Uganda Insurance Commission (UIC).

4.      The banking sector was in relatively sound shape at the time. The non-performing loan
(NPL) ratio hovered between 2 and 4 per cent from 2003 until 2008, while the Return on Assets
(ROA) held near 4 per cent and the capital adequacy ratio (CAR) near 20 per cent since 2002.
These indicators compared well with other countries in the region, most of whom had
significantly higher NPL ratios and lower CARs1.

5.            The financial sector in Uganda was relatively little affected by the global financial crisis.
It did not suffer direct contagion on account of the minimal exposure of banks to toxic assets.
Total holding of foreign assets themselves amounted to only 12 per cent of aggregate assets at
end 2008, most of which were deposits in correspondent banks which remained in sound
condition. Ugandan banks also relied relatively little (4 per cent of total liabilities) on foreign
institutions for short term finance to fund their asset portfolios. They were hence largely immune
																																																								
1	See:	Making	Finance	Work	for	Uganda,	The	World	bank,	Dec.	2009,	pp.	9‐10.	




                                                    1	
	
from liquidity losses when the global financial crisis triggered a reversal of flows form emerging
markets. That said, the economic slowdown did have some effect on the sector, with the growth
of banking assets and profitability declining markedly after 2008.

6.     Reform of the financial sector was being driven at the time by the Financial Markets
Development Plan (FMDP), 2008-12, which was incorporated into the National Development
Plan (NDP) which commenced in March 2009. The aim of the FMDP was to develop sound and
vibrant financial markets and to support efficient mobilization of resources necessary for
economic diversification and sustainable growth.

7.      A number of policy interventions were being implemented in the capital markets sector,
with a view to strengthening the sector, increasing its coverage and effectiveness and meeting
international standards. These included establishment of the Central Securities Depositary (CSD),
introduction of new products and strengthening of the payments system. During 2009-10, BOU
implemented an upgrade of the Real Time Gross Payment System (RTGS) to a Web-based
system. Further enhancements were being scheduled at the time for enabling multi-currency
processing on the system in order to facilitate cross border transactions between members of the
East African Community in their own currencies.

8.      Notwithstanding this progress, the financial sector at the time remained relatively shallow,
with M3/GDP standing at around 24 per cent. Much remained to be done to increase the depth
and breadth of the financial sector in order for it to contribute effectively to both higher
economic growth and poverty reduction. A large proportion (62 per cent) of the Ugandan
population remained unserved by any kind of financial institution, formal or informal. While
liquidity within the system was considerable, commercial banks preferred to invest in treasury
securities rather than servicing a broader segment of the enterprise sector.

9.      A related problem was the low level of intermediation that prevailed within the banking
system. Though deposits levels were growing the ratio of bank credit to the private sector
relative to GDP (12 per cent in 2008) was significantly lower than in many other Sub-Saharan
countries (29 per cent in Kenya, 15 per cent in Tanzania, 23 per cent in Ghana, 35 per cent in
Nigeria and 79 per cent in South Africa2).

10.     The local market for term finance was similarly underdeveloped. Financing for maturities
longer than seven years was largely unavailable. This was a major constraint to the financing of
urgently needed infrastructure investments and severely curtailed the development of the housing
market.

11.           A diagnostic report by the World Bank in 2009, on Making Finance Work for Uganda
concluded that the dual goals of expanding access to financial services and improving the supply
of term finance faced a number of constraints. Expanding access through the banking system
faced legal and regulatory constraints as well as information and capacity constraints. Some of
the key constraints included: insufficient support for creditor rights, excessive provisioning
requirements, and difficulties in obtaining land title information. Improvements were also needed
																																																								
2	Making	Finance	Work	for	Uganda,	pp.	10‐12	




                                                2	
	
in the banks’ payments and remittance systems. While BOU had taken some steps in this
direction, significant delays had been encountered in enacting payment system legislation.

12.     Improving the supply of term finance called among other things for reform of the pension
system, development of the housing finance market and for increasing the private financing of
infrastructure. Of these, reform of the pension sector was considered to be critical3, as a means of
reducing the government’s fiscal liabilities (through pension arrears) and increasing long term
savings, and providing access to these savings for infrastructure and other productive
investments. Reform of the pension system necessitated introduction of an overall pension
regulatory framework (which the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development was
already working on), with an overarching pension regulatory authority in place to improve
governance in the Public Service Pension Scheme. The report recommended that the private
pension system be fully liberalized, so as to remove the monopoly enjoyed by the National
Social Security Fund (the recipient of mandatory contributions by private formal sector
employees). Developing the housing finance market received a boost in April, 2009 from the
passage of the mortgage act, which would help provide a suitable regulatory environment for
secured lending. The report also suggested the establishment of a liquidity facility that would
allow banks to overcome some of the maturity mismatch issues and provide investors and
pension funds with a supply of bonds, yielding a better return than treasury bills at no greater risk.

13.      Against this background, the Financial Sector Development Policy Credit (DPC) was
prepared in support of the Government of Uganda’s efforts to reform the financial sector and
establish a sound and growing financial system. The US$50 million operation was envisaged as
the first in a series of two programmatic single tranche operations supporting the implementation
and consolidation of the Government’s financial sector reforms as outlined in the NDP and
FMDP for 2008-12. The operation was intended to complement the PRSC series, the main
vehicle for the World Bank’s budget support in Uganda. The programmatic approach defined the
medium-term framework for policy reform, while accommodating the unpredictability and
uncertainty of these complex policy reforms.

1.2                Original Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

14.     As outlined in Section V of the Program Document for the credit, the operation’s
overarching development objective was “to help build a more efficient, robust and deeper
financial sector which can support broad-based private sector growth. The specific reforms
supported by this operation would be organized around two main objectives: (i) Supporting
development of the market for term finance; and (ii) improving access to financial services”.

15.      Under (i), the operation would support the pension system reform, and strengthening of
institutional arrangements for mobilizing long term funds, including through public private
partnerships and the development of the housing market. Under (ii), measures supported would

																																																								
3	Thorsten	Beck	and	Michael	J.	Fuchs	(“Finance	for	Growth	–	Making	Uganda’s	Financial	System	Work	Harder	

for	Economic	Development”)	called	it	the	“single	most	important	measure	to	support	the	development	of	the	
market	for	term	finance”.	


                                                           3	
	
seek especially to improve the lending environment and strengthen payments and settlement
systems.

16.    Proposed prior actions for the operation and their status are presented in Section 2.1
below.

17.      Key outcome indicators were as follows:

Pillar 1

(a) Pensions:
       Share of Occupational Schemes licensed by URBRA
       URBRA Staff appointed; investment guidelines issued
       PSPF becomes contributory
       No accumulation of pension arrears

(b) Housing Market:
       Ratio of Mortgage Debt to GDP
       Yield Curve for Government securities becomes less inelastic for longer maturities

(c) PPPs for infrastructure financing:
       Share of private financing in infrastructure investments

Pillar 2

(d) Improving intermediation environment:
       Share of formally served population
       Share of formally served population in rural areas
       Share of Excluded population

(e) Improving National Payment Systems:
       Share of population engaged in money transfers
       Number of mobile money services subscriptions

1.3         Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority)

18.     The PDO remained unchanged throughout the project. As discussed in Section 2.4, a
decision was however taken in 2014, not to proceed with the second part of the proposed two-
part series of this programmatic operation, and instead to launch a new programmatic series, with
a greater focus on pension reform. As a result of further delays ensuing, as at the current time it

                                                 4	
	
is not clear that the new series will in fact proceed on schedule (or even at all). The achievement
of project objectives would have to be viewed in the light of these developments, i.e. it would
have to be evaluated in terms of the PDO of the original operation rather than of the program
objectives of the DPC series.

1.4        Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

19.      The main policy areas are outlined below:

Pillar 1: Supporting the development of the market for term finance

       Pension System Reform:

20.    The Ugandan pension system served a relatively small proportion of the population. Less
than 3 per cent of the population had access to retirement benefits. The Public Sector Pension
Fund (PSPF) covered civil servants, local government employees and teachers; the Armed
Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS) covered members of the military; other workers in the private
sector were covered under the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), which was the mandatory
fund, with about 500,000 members, enjoying a monopoly position. Workers in formal enterprises
with less than five employees were not covered. The PSPF was a relatively generous, non-
contributory, defined-benefit scheme funded by the budget, covering about 260,000 workers.
The Armed Forces Pension Scheme was similarly a non-contributory defined benefit scheme,
whose benefits were administered through the PSPF. In contrast, the NSSF was a defined
contribution provident fund financed by compulsory contributions of 15 per cent of wages
divided between employers and employees in the ratio of 2:1.

21.      No comprehensive regulatory framework was in place at the time for the pension sector,
NSSF and PSPF being regulated under separate laws. There were at the same time a number of
voluntary occupational schemes, believed to be somewhere between 30 and 150, which were
unregulated and unsupervised. The passage of the URBRA Act in April 2011 provided for the
first time for the establishment of a regulatory authority to supervise the entire pension sector.
Additionally, a Retirement Benefits Sector Liberalisation Bill (the Liberalisation Bill) was
introduced in Parliament the same month, but was felt to have significant gaps, which would
need to be addressed at Parliamentary Committee stage.

22.     A key issue arising was the fact that the Government’s commitment to public service
(including armed forces) pension payments was unsustainable. The PSPF had created a large
financial burden for the Government for a very small proportion of the population. This
commitment had given rise to a large contingent liability (63 per cent of 2011 GDP), and new
arrears were being accumulated each year on account of the under-budgeting of the
government’s commitments. Secondly, there were serious governance issues in the NSSF that
needed to be addressed, as reflected through a history of alleged fraud, poor investment decisions
and questionable valuation practices. At the same time, NSSF’s monopoly over mandatory
pensions was hindering the emergence of alternative schemes – though the passage of the
Liberalisation Bill would eventually permit workers to choose any scheme licensed by the
regulatory authority in which to make mandatory contributions. However, at the time, only a few

                                                5	
	
asset managers had been licensed by the Capital Market Authority to manage pension scheme
assets and the market for this was fairly underdeveloped.

23.     Since the need for reform of the pensions sector was fairly far reaching, a staged
approach to pension reform had been adopted by the authorities. The focus of the first step was
the regulatory framework and the two largest pension schemes, NSSF and PSPF. The passage of
the URBRA Act was an important step that needed to be followed by the appointment of the
Board and staff of the authority (for which trust fund resources had been made available). The
next step was the passage of the Liberalisation Bill, which would ensure that the PSPF was made
contributory and competition was generated in the pensions sector.

24.     This first operation of the DPC series was intended to support the initial stage of pension
reform. Prior actions agreed with the authorities (and completed) included the conduct of an
independent review of NSSF’s investment policies and practices; conduct of an actuarial
evaluation and submission of reform options for the PSPF; and the submission of the URBRA
Bill to Parliament.

25.    The second phase of pension reform actions was intended to be part of the second
operation in the DPC series. The set of possible triggers for the second operation would include
addressing gaps in the Liberalisation Bill introduced in Parliament prior to its enactment;
appointment of the URBRA Board and staff; adoption by URBRA of regulations, prudential
norms and guidelines; licensing of NSSF; and Cabinet approval of policy paper on PSPF reform.

26.     The overarching objective of the combined actions supported by the two operations in
this area was the emergence of a regulated, competitive and sustainable pensions industry
catering for both mandatory and voluntary pension savings. This overall objective would require
an effective regulator and the transition of the public sector schemes towards a sustainable
scheme.

     Developing Housing Finance Market:

27.     Uganda’s mortgage market was small and underdeveloped. Obstacles for housing finance
development were found at every stage of the lending process: from obtaining collateral,
registration process, assessing credit risk, obtaining long term funding and the foreclosure
process. A new Mortgage Act had been passed, which would consolidate the laws relating to
mortgages and facilitate the foreclosure process, but its implementation was pending adoption of
a set of regulations. Some uncertainties also existed regarding the Land Act Amendment Bill,
which constrained some lenders from fully committing resources to developing a mortgage
product. Valuation policy also needed to be reviewed, to determine whether – in lieu of a formal
valuation in every case by the Government Values Office, transaction values – drawn on a
sample basis – could be used to determine the tax base. (The samples could help build a database
of values that would provide a rapid way to check the values of properties not subject to full
valuation).




                                                6	
	
28.    This operation would support the authorities’ implementation of the Mortgage Act,
through preparation of the necessary regulations. The prior action agreed for this operation was
to put in force the Mortgage Act regulations. Triggers for the second operation in this series
could have included the revision of valuation policy and procedures, establishing a Mortgage
Market Development Committee for setting up a liquidity facility, and further issuance of long-
term bonds. The overall objective of these measures would be to improve confidence in the
mortgage market and foster mortgage market growth.

29.     Analysis of the options for expanding housing finance in Uganda 4 suggested that the
setting up of a liquidity facility was a more appropriate option for an emerging market country
than say securitization, being less complex to manage, involving a lower level of risk, and that
the bonds issued are not directly linked to the underlying mortgages. Such facilities have proven
successful in boosting some stagnant/constrained mortgage markets in other countries. However,
the success of such a facility depended on the market for term funds: demand for the bonds
issued would most likely have to come from NSSF, which would have to alter its investment
mandate, redirecting its portfolio away from largely real estate-related investments. This in turn
would depend on the alternatives available, especially the yields obtainable from government
securities, which were relatively high at the time (with the volatility of interest rates constituting
an additional element of risk). It would also most likely call or a government guarantee in its
early stages of development, to protect investors from losses. As such, there was a risk that these
(mostly interlinked) triggers for development of the housing finance market might be difficult to
achieve within the envisaged time frame.

       Developing Public Private Partnership (PPP) framework for infrastructure financing:

30.     To attract private participation in infrastructure, the Government needed to develop an
adequate legal, regulatory and institutional environment, including a transparent and predictable
investment planning process. Public Private Partnerships had been used for the electricity
distribution sector and for railway concessions in Uganda, under the Privatization and Utility
Sector Reform Program (PUSRP), under a fairly well-defined set of rules and institutional
structure. However the majority of projects under the potential PPP pipeline faced a much more
ad hoc framework, one that was less conducive to actual achievement of new investments. The
operation supported the adoption of a formal PPP policy, with the establishment of a PPP unit
and preparation and submission of a PPP Bill to Cabinet. The object of these actions was
improvement in delivery of cost effective infrastructure services, by leveraging domestic sources
of longer-term financing. A possible trigger for the second operation was the adoption of PPP
Bill regulations and guidelines.




																																																								
4	See	Report	on	“Expanding	Housing	Finance	in	Uganda;	Task	2”,	prepared	by	Genesis	Analytics,	June	2009,	as	

part	of	FIRST	Initiative‐funded	study.	


                                                           7	
	
Pillar 2: Improving access to financial services

      Improving intermediation environment:

31.     The low level of intermediation of Uganda’s banking system reflected the shallowness of
its financial sector, as a result of which a large portion of the population did not have access to
any kind of financial services. The key constraints to expansion of financial intermediation
included an inefficient and ineffective legal system, wherein creditors faced long delays in being
able to enforce debt contracts, the ability of banks to make greater use of technology was
hampered by the lack of a legal framework for electronic transactions, and there were difficulties
in obtaining land title and credit information. At the same time, financial literacy in the country
was very limited, and MSME access to credit was hampered by a severe lack of basic business
skills.

32.     Some of these challenges had begun to be addressed by the government via the FMDP,
2008-12. Amendments to the 2004 Financial Institutions Act (FIA) and 2003 Micro-Deposit
taking Institutions Act were under preparation at the time for submission to Cabinet, which were
intended to foster greater financial depth 5 through introduction of new products, such as
Bancassurance and Mobile Banking/Money Transfer. The authorities had also adopted new
Financial Institutions Statutory Instruments, in the area of anti-money laundering and capital
adequacy requirements, among others, to complement and consolidate the regulatory framework.
Also introduced (rules signed in March, 2011) was a Small Claims Procedure within the
Commercial Court Framework, to help small commercial claims be resolved quickly and
inexpensively. Finally, financial sector specific guidelines were being prepared to protect
participants in the sector and foster greater credibility. All of the above measures were supported
under this operation and would be treated as prior actions agreed with the authorities.

33.     In addition to the above measures, further action was felt necessary with respect to access
to finance in rural areas. A new Rural Financial Services Strategy launched by the government
sought to expand rural financial services through Savings & Credit Associations (SACCOs) – by
creating new SACCOs and strengthening existing ones. It was intended that the second operation
of this DPC series would support GoU’s efforts to improve operational performance in the
SACCO subsector and strengthen prudential regulations. Indicative triggers for the second
operation would most likely be preparation and submission of a proposed Tier 4 regulatory Bill
to Parliament, and the rolling out of the Small Claims Procedure in five jurisdictions. Main
expected results under this area included increased lending to the private sector and increased
availability of financial services and products.




																																																								
5	The	 Update	 to	 the	 Financial	 Sector	 Assessment	 Program,	 in	 June,	 2012,	 pointed	 out	 that	 some	 relatively	 minor	
amendments	 to	 these	 two	 acts	 could	 provide	 the	 basis	 for	 expansion	 of	 micro‐finance	 outreach.	 For	 instance,	 allowing	
micro‐finance	 deposit‐taking	 institutions	 to	 call	 themselves	 “microfinance	 banks”,	 easing	 branch	 requirements	 and	
allowing	 for	 agency	 banking	 would	 increase	 the	 benefits	 of	 regulation	 and	 make	 service	 provision	 in	 rural	 areas	 more	
cost‐effective.		


                                                                 8	
	
       Improving National Payments System:

34.     Uganda’s National Payments System (NPS) had undergone various improvements to date
– including launching of the Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) and RTGS systems in 2003 and
2005 respectively. There was however no comprehensive payments system law, in the absence
of which BOU was relying mostly on contract law, which was however not the most appropriate,
as it did not provide the level of legal protection necessary to address various important issues
such as the enforcement of security interests provided under collateral arrangements. Access to
the ETF system was fairly inequitable, with only Tier 1 institutions having direct access, with all
other institutions operating through them, and charges for electronic payment services remained
high.

35.     The authorities acknowledged the need for modernization of the NPS, to keep abreast of
market developments and innovations, strengthen risk management, enhance efficiency in
monetary value transfers, expand the payment instrument base through new instruments, extend
cost-effective payment services to rural areas and the unbanked, and improve the accessibility
and convenience of payments services to the general public. The government was also working
on introducing a new central securities depositary, to replace the current one which was only
accessible by BOU.

36.     This operation would support initial steps towards modernization of the NPS legal and
regulatory framework – a reform that had been previously delayed for many years. Possible
triggers for the subsequent operation in the series would be the effective use of the Central
Services Depositary system, and submission of the overhauled National Payments Systems Bill
to Parliament; together with adoption of mobile money strategy, including regulatory framework
to support use of banking agents. Main results expected from this are an enhanced efficiency of
money transfers and improved accessibility to payment services.

1.5        Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

1.6        Other significant changes

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1        Program Performance

Prior Actions:

37.   The tables below summarize the prior actions (conditions) completed by the Government
of Uganda ahead of the credit approval. The original table can be found on p.28 (Box 1) of the
program document, and is derived from the Financial Sector Development Policy Matrix in
Annex 2. All prior actions were completed prior to Board presentation, most of them well in
advance, and two of them immediately prior.




                                                  9	
	
Tranche #          Amount             Expected        Actual   Release Release
                                      Release Date    Date
Single Tranche     USD 50 million                     November 3, 2011 Regular

       Table 1: Prior Actions for Uganda First Financial Sector Development Credit

  Prior Actions                              Status of prior Actions
Pillar 1: Supporting the development of market for term finance
  Prior action 1: Conduct an                 Completed – Review took place in March
  independent      review    of      NSSF    2011.
  investment policies and practices.
  Prior action 2: Undertake an actuarial     Completed – Preliminary results were
  evaluation and simulation of reform        presented to the authorities in March
  options for the PSPF.                      2011.
  Prior action 3: Submit URBRA Bill to       Completed – Bill was enacted in April
  Parliament.                                2011.
  Prior action 4: Put in force the           Completed – Mortgage Act regulations
  Mortgage Act regulations.                  were put in force*
  Prior action 5: Adopt policy paper on      Completed – Policy paper was adopted
  PPP, prepare and submit the PPP Bill       March 2010; draft PPP Bill was submitted
  to Cabinet and Establish the non-          to Cabinet on May 11, 2011; the non-
  statutory PPP unit.                        statutory PPP unit was established within
                                             MoFPED.
Pillar 2: Improving access to financial services
 Prior action 6: Adopt complementary         Completed – Proposed amendments to the
 Financial      Institutions     Statutory   2004 FIA were submitted to Cabinet on
 Instruments and submit amendments to        November 26, 2010; Complementary
 2004 FIA to Cabinet.                        Regulations were adopted on November
                                             12, 2010.
 Prior action 7: Put in force Small          Completed – Signed by Chief Justice on
 Claims Procedure rules.                     March 31, 2011.
 Prior action 8: Issue Consumer              Completed – Consumer Protection
 Protection Guidelines.                      guidelines were issued, effective June 1,
                                             2011*.
     These two actions were “On track to be completed” after preparation of the Program Document,
      and were completed prior to Board presentation

Triggers:

38.     A second benchmark of program performance would be the progress made on meeting
the triggers for what was to be the second operation in the series. Although a time frame for
meeting the triggers was not explicitly specified, program outcomes were expected to be
achieved by 2014, as clarified in the results matrix in Annex 2 of the PAD, indicating that the
second operation would need to be launched well before then. This progress is summarized in
Table 2 below.


                                               10	
	
                  Table 2: Supporting the development of market for term finance

Pillar 1: Supporting the development of market for term finance

           Area               Triggers for second operation                   Progress
                                                                  Extensive comments were
                            Address gaps in Liberalization Bill   provided on various drafts of
Pension:                    introduced to Parliament before it    the Liberalization Bill. Bill is
                            is enacted                            still with Parliamentary
                                                                  Committee
                                                                  URBRA Board appointed.
                                                                  Staff hiring on-going.
                            Appoint URBRA board and staff         Selection of CEO finalized:
                                                                  awaiting approval by
                                                                  government
                                                                  URBRA regulations being
                                                                  drafted. Licensing regulations
                            URBRA to adopt regulations,           and investment guidelines
                            prudential norms and guidelines       approved. Financial Reporting
                                                                  guidelines awaiting approval
                                                                  by Solicitor General
                                                                  NSSF granted provisional
                            License NSSF
                                                                  license
                            Cabinet to approve policy paper on    Cabinet paper drafted by
                            PSPF reform                           MoPS, but yet to be submitted.
                                                                  Not to be done under this
                                                                  project. Being undertaken
                            Revision of valuation policy and      instead as part of new World
Housing Market:
                            procedures                            Bank Competitiveness &
                                                                  Enterprise Development
                                                                  project approved in 2013
                            Establishment of a Mortgage
                            Market Development Committee
                                                                  Not done
                            tasked with setting up a liquidity
                            facility
                            Further issuance of longer term       Government began issuing 10-
                            bonds                                 and 15-year bonds
                                                                  PPP Bill approved by
                                                                  Parliament for the second time
PPPs for infrastructure     Adoption of PPP Bill regulations      on December 2, 2014, after
financing                   and guidelines                        Presidential assent could not
                                                                  be obtained following first
                                                                  submission in July



                                                  11	
	
Pillar 2: Improving access to financial services

Improving intermediation Prepare and submit a Tier 4          Work on Tier 4 regulatory
environment               regulatory        Bill      to      Bill still on-going
                          Parliament
                          Rollout of the Small Claims         Completed
                          Procedure in 5 jurisdictions
Improving        National Submit overhauled National          Revised Payments System
Payments Systems          Payments System Bill to             Bill not yet submitted to
                          Parliament                          Parliament
                          Effective implementation of         CSDS is operational but not
                          the    Central      Securities      yet connected to BoU/RTGS
                          Depositary             System,
                          including its linkage to USE
                          and RTGS system
                          Adoption of mobile money            Mobile Money Guidelines
                          strategy,           including       adopted
                          regulatory framework to
                          support use of banking
                          agents

39.    As can be seen, a fair degree of progress has been made towards meeting the triggers for
the second operation, but the pace of progress has been much slower than expected. The most
substantive progress was made under Pillar 1, in the pension reform area, around which the
World Bank and Government of Uganda had been holding a (fairly productive) dialogue since
2010.
       As regards the Liberalisation Bill, extensive comments were provided by the World Bank
        to the Government, on the basis of which a revised version of the Bill – broadly in line
        with international best practice - was presented to Parliament in July, 2013. The revised
        Bill addressed the gaps that had been felt to exist in the original version, incorporating
        amendments suggested by the Bank team on a number of topics (among others: the need
        for URBRA to approve the level of tax breaks on voluntary contributions, need for
        clarifications around defined-contribution accounts, and the question of whether or not to
        allow penalties for early withdrawal). The Bill would gradually remove the monopoly of
        the NSSF over mandatory social security contributions, and increase the coverage of the
        scheme to all formal sector firms (irrespective of size of employees). As of December 1,
        2014, this bill was still with the parliamentary committee, though its passage seems likely
        to take place during the next session, in February, 2015.
       As regards the establishment of URBRA as a functioning entity, the Board had been
        appointed and recruitment of permanent staff had begun during 2013. The recruitment of
        the CEO would complete the management structure of the organization and
        advertisements for the CEO position had been posted in the international and domestic
        press, a recruitment agency had been appointed in mid-2013 to handle the recruitment of
        an internationally qualified candidate, and a suitable candidate was selected. As of
        December 1, 2014, the CEO contract was with the Solicitor General for approval. Other

                                                12	
	
             hiring was on-going at this time. To date, considerable progress has been made in the
             licensing of the sector actors (see Section 3.2).
            The role of NSSF in the liberalized sector was an important element of the reform
             process, and its compliance with the URBRA and the Liberalisation Bill were key to
             ensuring its credibility. (Hence, full compliance of NSSF with the URBRA Act and the
             Liberalisation Bill were most likely to have been included among the prior actions of the
             new DPC series on pension reform). NSSF had applied for - and been granted – an
             interim trustee license and had agreed with URBRA on a roadmap to allow it to fully
             comply with the URBRA Act by end-2013.                     As of December 1, 2014,
             however, NSSF was still on a temporary license, as they were gradually outsourcing its
             fund management.
            As regards the reform of the PSPF, a draft Cabinet Paper, outlining a solid reform
             proposal, was prepared taking into account the recommendations of a World Bank Policy
             Paper6 prepared earlier in 2011 at the request of the Government. The Cabinet Paper
             proposed a two-stage reform process, involving establishment of a separate, funded
             pension scheme and parametric reforms relating to the existing defined-benefit promise,
             in Stage One. Stage Two would involve introduction of a defined contribution element,
             allowing the public servants pension scheme to be compatible with the Liberalisation Bill
             and broader pension reform. The Bank team undertook PROST 7 modeling of these
             reforms and shared a draft technical paper with the Ministry of Public Service.
             Finalization of the PSPF reform proposal and presentation of the reform Bill to
             Parliament was to be a prior action of the new DPC series. As of December 1, 2014, the
             Cabinet Paper was still pending submission.

40.     Most other areas of the term finance pillar also saw some progress, though the pace
varied. The revision of the valuation policy and procedures under the Mortgage Act took some
time on account of capacity constraints. Some initial capacity building was initiated under the
Land component of the World Bank’s Second Private Sector Competitiveness project, which
closed in February, 2013, with training provided to the office of the Chief Valuer. Further steps
were taken under the Land Administration Reform component of the World Bank’s new
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development project, approved in 2013. This component
included the development and implementation of a land information system incorporating
registration and valuation functions – including developing valuation databases, reviewing the
legal and policy framework, and developing capacity within the public and private sectors with
regard to the valuation function. Since the project became effective only in 2014, implementation
of this action was delayed to that extent. However, consultancy work in connection with the
valuation subcomponent has now commenced at full pace.



																																																								
6	Uganda:	Reform	Options	of	the	Public	Service	Pension	Fund,	April	2011	
7	Options	for	the	Reform	of	the	Public	Service	Pension	Fund	in	Uganda	–	Analysis	of	Cabinet	Memorandum,	

October	2013.	PROST	is	a	computer‐based	pension	model	designed	to	simulate	the	behavior	of	pension	
systems	and	assess	their	financial	viability	under	different	economic	and	demographic	assumptions	over	a	
long	time	frame.	


                                                           13	
	
41.    The establishment of a Mortgage Market Development Committee (with the
responsibility for setting up a liquidity facility) has not yet taken place. As outlined earlier, the
constraints facing the successful establishment of a liquidity facility were fairly severe, but the
lack of progress in this meeting this trigger seems indicative of a lack of commitment in
advancing the agenda under the housing finance pillar. Progress was made however in the
issuance of longer-term (10- to 15-year) bonds by the Government, reflected in the yield curve
for government securities becoming somewhat more elastic by 2014 – although it is not
immediately clear to what extent this was directly attributable to the project.

42.     Finalization of the PPP Bill (2012), regulations and guidelines, and its approval by
Parliament, has taken place The Bill generated considerable discussion during its passage.
Various amendments were initially introduced by the Government to bring the Bill in line with
international best practice and with Ugandan aspirations (e.g. clauses introduced to allow a
contracting authority to cancel a tender process at any time prior to the signing of the agreement).
The Bill was tabled before Parliament in Febrary, 2014, and after further proposals and
amendments to some of the clauses by the Parliamentary Committee reviewing it, was passed in
July, 2014. It did not however receive the President’s assent and signature, and as such was
passed a second time on December 2, which would automatically make it law.

43.     Under Pillar 2, there was variable progress in improving the intermediation environment.
In a couple of areas, actions were under way but had not been completed as of December 1, 2014,
including the Tier 4 regulatory Bill and the revised National Payment System Bill – both of
which have yet to be submitted to Parliament. The rollout of the small claims procedure was
however completed in five jurisdictions, as planned. Mobile Money guidelines – providing for
competition, consumer protection of data and transactions, and supervision by BoU - were issued
by the Bank of Uganda, with effect from October 1, 2013.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

44.     Implementation of the key pension reforms received initial strong commitment on the
part of the authorities, who appeared to be keen to move forward with the reform process, whilst
addressing the many sector challenges that needed to be faced. The fact that the next DPO was
intended to be focused on the pension agenda helped ensure that the policy dialogue, initiated in
2010, and supported by a DFID Trust Fund, was treated seriously and serious efforts were made
to translate it into action.

45.     There were nevertheless two key factors which had the potential to negatively impact
implementation: a) serious limitations in institutional capacity, and b) the realities of the
legislative process, in terms of the challenges of getting Bills passed into Acts. Both factors
affected the pace of progress, especially in terms of achieving the triggers for the next operation
in the series.
       Institutional capacity shortages affected the pace at which key steps in the reform process
        could be taken: as for instance in terms of the regulations and guidelines that had to be
        drafted (for instance the regulations necessary to implement the URBRA Act, and revise
        valuation procedures). Similarly, in the pensions area, the Ministry of Public Service
        (MoPS) faced significant challenges in continuing with the reform process on account of

                                                 14	
	
        a complete change in its management and pension technical team that had to be made on
        account of major governance problems faced during 2012. The Ministry had to put in
        place an entirely new team of 8 staff in charge of its pension unit, and to work on the
        implementation of the reforms; however, this team required training and considerable
        help in building up its technical capacity in order to take the reform process forward.
        Until this was done, implementation of important tasks such as the transition of retiree
        records into the new IPPS system was affected8.
       The World Bank provided considerable assistance in many areas, for instance in the
        drafting of licensing regulations for URBRA, and through the provision of an
        international pension expert to support the URBRA team throughout the drafting of the
        prudential regulations (whilst also provide hands-on training to build institutional local
        capacity). An international adviser was provided to MoPS, and support to build technical
        capacity was being provided to the new team.
       Given the complexity of the financial sector reform agenda being supported by the DPC
        series, actual progress depended on formal ratification by Parliament of a number of Acts
        and regulations that formed part of the Prior Actions for the next operation. The realities
        of the legislative process meant that considerable time and effort had to be devoted to
        building a consensus of support among Parliamentarians, especially at the Committee
        stage, making the pace of progress relatively unpredictable.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

46.     MoFPED was tasked with the responsibility for implementing and monitoring progress
under the program. Reform of the financial sector would be monitored through the Government
monitoring framework for its National Development Plan, as provided for under Uganda’s
National Integrated Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy (NIMES). BoU was also involved as
part of its monitoring of FMDP 2008-12, which included publication of annual progress reports
on implementation of the Plan.

47.           Design: Implementation and monitoring of progress of the DPC was facilitated by the
fact that the conditionality introduced in the policy matrix followed a set of Good Practice
Principles, as set out in the program document. As such, the design was (a) fully client driven
and built on Uganda’s ownership of its development strategy and the FMDP, 2008-12, which
was being implemented and supported by various donors. (b) The accountability framework in
the matrix was fully congruent with the Government’s NDP objectives and the Joint Assessment
Framework (JAF) developed for budget support operations – though the sector-specific focus of
the operation called for a sector-specific policy program. (c) The operation and associated policy
measures were specifically tailored to the Government’s needs. (d) The number of policy actions
were limited and focused on critical steps necessary to help deepen development of the financial
sector. (e) The project would take advantage of procedures already established by the
Government to monitor and assess performance of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
and the NDP.
																																																								
8	Support	for	the	introduction	of	the	IPPS	system	was	provided	via	the	Public	Service	Enhancement	Project	
(UPSPEP).	


                                                   15	
	
48.     Implementation: Monitoring the DPC program took the form of continuous dialogue with
counterparts from the Government. It was supported by complementary investment projects such
the Second Private Sector Competitiveness project, and the Competitiveness & Enterprise
Development project which had been under preparation. This was supplemented by the dialogue
that took place on the pension sector in preparation for the second operation in this DPC series.
The Bank team monitored progress against the baselines agreed during the preparation of the
credit. Collaboration with other donors also helped focus attention on progress of the project.

49.     Utilization: By its nature a DPC provides budget support to the Ministry of Finance;
hence the proceeds of the credit cannot be tracked. However, in requesting this budget support
the Government had indicated that the additional resources would be utilized to support actions
that were urgently needed to reform the pension sector, which at the time was already proving to
be a significant drain on the public exchequer, as well as to help deepen the overall financial
sector, which would bring about significant medium-term benefits.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

50.     The Financial Sector DPC was intended as the first of a two-part programmatic series of
single tranche operations, aimed at building a more efficient and deeper financial sector, capable
of supporting private sector growth. The first operation provided government with support to
maintain momentum on key reforms needed in the pension sector, as well as other measures
aimed at improving the supply of term finance and access to financial services, to be followed by
a second operation to take this reform agenda forward. The second operation of the series began
taking shape soon after effectiveness of the first. By the time of the Bank’s missions to Uganda
in March and May, 2013, the dialogue with the Government had highlighted a strong preference
to move forward in the pension reform process and to undertake the policy actions required to
ensure support through the second DPC. Some tangible results had been achieved in the
implementation of recommended actions, including in the organizational structure of URBRA,
steps agreed by NSSF to comply with the URBRA Act, the submission to Parliament of a revised
version of the Liberalization Bill, and the reform of the PSPF.

51.     Given the breadth of issues tackled in the pension sector, and the impact of the sector on
the country’s budgetary situation, it was decided that the second operation would narrow its
focus and specifically target pension reform. However, in order to create continuity with the
work started under DPC1, it was proposed to include a set of selected complementary actions in
the area of financial inclusion in the new operation.

52.     The policy dialogue with the Government resulted in pension payment systems being
highlighted as a key area of financial sector development, closely connected to pension reform
and hence worth receiving continued support. Efficient payment systems would play a vital role
in the effective running of the PSPF: this could include electronic payment systems, centralized
contribution collection and use of individual ID cards. Consequently, the Bank team proposed to
the BoU that a diagnostic review of the pension system (of both public and private funds) be
included as part of the second operation.



                                               16	
	
53.    During the September 2013 mission, it appeared that the Bank team was close to
completing preparation of the second DPC operation. Some of the key triggers for proceeding
with the operation had been met and the following actions were felt to be on the critical path:
 Finalization of the PSPF reform proposal and presentation of the reform Bill to Parliament
  (this would be a Prior Action of DPC2)
 Migration of the public servants pension records to the IPPS. The set up of the IPPS system
  having been supported by the Bank, it was vital that the transfer of records be completed
  before the PSPF came into operation
 Compliance of NSSF with the URBRA Act and Liberalization Bill (another Prior Action of
  the DPC2)
 Completion of URBRA management structure. The hiring of the CEO would complete the
  management structure and would be one of the critical actions supported by the DPC2
 Review of the pension payment and administration systems. (As mentioned above).
 Regulations by BoU on agent banking and mobile services to be approved by Parliament,
  incorporating amendments to FIA and MDI Acts.

54.    Though the next phase of the DPC series had reached an advanced stage of preparation,
progress had been relatively slow. On account of the passage of time (more than two years
having elapsed since the first operation), OPCS advised that in accordance with institutional
guidelines it was necessary to discontinue the original series and proceed with the second
operation either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a new series. A decision was taken at the
Concept Review Meeting held on February 10, 2014, that the complexity of the pension sector
reforms being undertaken would not be properly addressed by a stand-alone operation, and that a
new programmatic series instead be launched with the originally-conceived DPC2 being the first
operation of this new series.

55.     The new programmatic series would be named the Uganda Pension Reform Policy Credit,
with a PDO centered on addressing pension sector governance and fiscal sustainability issues, as
a precondition for a future increase of coverage. The first operation would revolve around four
policy areas: a) Setting up the regulatory framework for the pension sector to ensure oversight
and governance; b) Introducing competition in provision of mandatory retirement benefits to
increase efficiency and improve performance; c) Reforming the Public Service Pension Scheme
to ensure its financial viability and improve its governance; and d) Enhancing the regulatory
framework for mobile banking and agent banking to increase access to financial services. As
such, it appeared that a strong continuity would be maintained with the reforms undertaken under
the original DPC, with a focus now on deepening reforms in the pensions sector.

56.     On the basis of subsequent events, it is no longer clear however whether this continuity
can still be maintained. As seen from Section 2.1, the pace of progress for meeting the triggers
for the new series has slowed down considerably, and many of the triggers are as yet unmet.
More importantly, the Government of Uganda itself appears to have had second thoughts on
whether or not to proceed at this time with the Pension Reform Policy Credit. As things stand,
that operation is currently on hold, at the request of the Finance Ministry.

                                              17	
	
57.     It is not clear to what extent this reflects a reduction in enthusiasm by the Government for
budget support in general. Though not directly related to the Pension Reform Policy operation,
governance concerns arising from the identification by the Auditor General in late 2012 of a
misuse of donor funds in the Prime Minister’s Office, had led to a freeze in aid disbursements,
including funds for PRSC-9. This was followed by the cancellation in 2013 of PRSC-10, leading
to a recognition that budget support could no longer be relied upon as a predictable source of
funds on which to base a budget plan9.

3.   Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Objectives

58.    The reforms supported by the DPC were highly relevant to Uganda’s development
challenges and closely linked to the country assistance strategy.

59.     The financial sector has been at the core of the Government’s economic reform program
since the late 1980s. The first stage of financial sector reforms focused on liberalization of
financial markets, institutional reforms to the prudential regulatory framework, and divestiture of
government-owned financial institutions and did bring about improvement in the strength and
efficiency of the financial sector, which performed reasonably well in terms of providing
banking services for medium to large corporations and providing payments and savings services
to a reasonably large portion of the population. However, the Government was keen on bringing
about an increase in intermediation and savings mobilization in support of higher and more
diversified economic growth and increased poverty reduction. At the same time, it recognized
the importance of strengthening the local market for term finance, which had remained
underdeveloped, leading to a dearth of term finance for private firms, especially for
infrastructure investments.

60.     The National Development Plan for 2010/11 – 2014/15, which succeeded the third
Poverty Eradication Action Plan, identified three objectives for the financial sector: promoting a
sound, deep and vibrant financial system, increasing access to affordable long term finance, and
attaining further integration of financial services within the East African Community. These
objectives were fully congruent with the Financial Markets Development Plan for 2008-12,
implemented with support from the Bank’s second Private Sector Competitiveness project.

61.           The objectives of the project were relevant to these goals at inception and remain relevant
today. The operation complemented the Government’s efforts to implement the FMDP to
improve access to financial services and availability of longer term finance. The operation was
also in keeping with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in May, 2010,
which supported the Government’s medium term goal of accelerating economic growth,
																																																								
9	ICR,	Uganda	PRSCs,	Report	No.2959,	January	27,	2014		




                                                          18	
	
transforming the structure of the economy and ensuring prosperity. Also, as highlighted in the
NDP, that currently underpins government operations, as also the National Vision 2040,
launched in 2012, the development of a resilient financial system is considered an important
enabling factor in Uganda’s goal of achieving economic and social development, and the
development of the pension sector in particular as a key reform area necessary for the
development of the financial services industry and the supply of long term finance in Uganda.

62.    For these reasons, relevance of objectives is rated as high.

Design		
63.    The design of the DPC program was consistent with these objectives. The choice of
policy areas was appropriate to meeting the overarching developmental objectives of building a
more efficient, robust and deeper financial sector. As this is a single tranche budget support
operation, a results chain cannot be provided. However, the program document provides a clear
roadmap of expected results from the actions supported by the operation, sequenced over the two
program stages, and indicating the likely triggers for the second stage.

64.     In this way, under Pillar 1, reform of the pensions sector, the most highly challenging
policy area of the operation, was key to the development of the market for term finance, and was
hence a central pillar of support for the project. Actions supported in this area were expected to
lead to the emergence of a regulated, competitive and sustainable pension industry catering to
both mandatory and voluntary pension savings. Similarly, actions to support development of the
market for housing finance – if successful – were expected to contribute to improving the
confidence in the mortgage market and to help foster mortgage market growth. Measures to
improve the PPP framework for infrastructure finance, would similarly contribute to enhanced
delivery of cost effective quality infrastructure services, leveraging to the extent possible
domestic sources of long term finance. Under Pillar 2, the measures supported – which focused
on strengthening the financial sector regulatory environment, the commercial dispute resolution
system and consumer protection, would – by expanding rural financial services through
SACCOs – be expected to lead to an increase in lending to the private sector and greater
availability of financial services and products. Measures to modernize and improve the payments
system were expected to result in enhanced efficiency of money transfers and improved
accessibility to payment services.

65.     Implementation turned out to be more time-consuming and troublesome than anticipated,
in part because of difficulties in ensuring passage of legislation through Parliament, and in part
on account of a weak (or declining) commitment by the government to some parts of the reform
program. Though the World Bank team provided technical assistance and analytical support
where appropriate to help achieve some of the triggers for the second operation, the pace of
progress was slow enough to warrant termination of the second phase of the DPC series. With
hindsight, it would appear that the design of the project was overambitious, and that a more
narrowly focused operation – along the lines of the subsequent Pension Reform Policy Credit -
might have been significantly easier to implement.

For these reasons, relevance of design is rated as modest.


                                                19	
	
3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives (including brief discussion of
causal linkages between policy actions supported by the operation and outcomes)
Rating: Modest

66.    Since the decision was taken to formally close the programmatic series after the first
operation, the achievement of program objectives will – strictly speaking - need to be assessed in
terms of the PDO for the operation, on a stand-alone basis. In terms of the policy (results) matrix,
this may not make much of a difference, since target dates for outcome indicators in any case
extended to 2014, i.e. the full period of the original program. In addition, the policy matrix
included prior actions as well as actions taken to achieve the triggers for the second operation,
which – especially in the pensions area - were crucial to preparing the ground for the new
Pension Reform Policy Credit. These were discussed earlier in section 2.1.

67.    The overall achievement of the DPC Program Development Objectives revealed progress
on many fronts, combined with delays in some key areas. As indicated in section 2.1, all Prior
Actions were met before Board presentation. Some of the outcomes targeted for completion
during 2014 have been achieved; others are likely to be achieved only during 2015. Some, which
were scheduled to be achieved by the end of DPC2 (e.g. finalization of the URBRA’s
organizational structure and hiring of the CEO; approval of the PSPF Bill) were incorporated
into the Prior Actions of the subsequent Pension Reform Policy Credit series, but with that
operation having been put on hold, have lagged in implementation.

68.   Table 3 below, derived from the Policy Matrix for the operation, summarizes the
Outcomes expected and achieved for the original program:

Area             Expected Outcomes (of         Outcome             Results
                 the original program)         Indicators
Pension          Development of a              Share of            URBRA has licensed 63
                 regulated and competitive     occupational        retirement benefit
                 pension industry catering     Schemes             schemes, with an
                 to both mandatory and         licensed by         additional 9 joining
                 voluntary pension savings     URBRA               umbrella fund.
                                               (Baseline 2011:     Preliminary estimates
                                               0%; Target          suggest that 33% of
                                               2014: 33%)          funds have been licensed;
                                                                   however, on account of
                                                                   uncertainty regarding the
                                                                   number of funds actually
                                                                   in operation, difficult to
                                                                   determine whether the
                                                                   target has in fact been
                                                                   met or not.


                 An effective, well            URBRA Staff         Initial cohort of 12 staff
                 resourced and efficient       appointed;          appointed in 2013; new

                                                20	
	
          regulator is in place         internal            staff positions advertised
                                        procedures          Jan 2014; recruitment of
                                        adopted;            staff and CEO,
                                        investment          undertaken with TF
                                        guidelines issued   support, not yet
                                                            complete. URBRA’s
                                                            internal procedures still
                                                            being approved.
                                                            Investment guidelines
                                                            have however been
                                                            gazetted

          A more sustainable public     PSPF becomes        PSPF reform proposal
          sector scheme is in place     contributory        submitted to Cabinet in
                                                            April, 2014. Cabinet
                                                            paper, proposing new
                                                            defined-benefit scheme,
                                                            drafted but not yet
                                                            submitted.

                                        No accumulation     Clearance of pension
                                        of pension          arrears not yet complete
                                        arrears
Housing   Mortgage market growth        Ratio of            Rose sharply to 1.9% in
Market    Increased tenor of            Mortgage Debt       2011 itself, but fell to
          mortgages                     to GDP              1.8% in 2012, and 1.6%
                                        (Baseline 2010:     in 2013; hence, not
                                        1%; Target          achieved
                                        2014: 2%)

          Availability of pricing for   Yield Curve for
          long term funds               Government          Yield curve has become
                                        securities          more elastic with
                                        becomes less        introduction of 15-yr
                                        inelastic for       bond. [Dec. 2013: Rates
                                        longer maturities   for 3 month bonds =
                                        (Baseline: 2010:    10%; for 10-yr bonds =
                                        Yield curve         13.94%; for 15-yr bonds
                                        virtually flat      = 15.25%]
                                        beyond 80
                                        months; Target
                                        2014: Yield
                                        Curve becomes
                                        elastic beyond
                                        120 months)
	                      	

                                         21	
	
PPPs            Increased capacity to       Share of private   N/A, since PPP Bill
                manage and coordinate       financing in       passed only in Dec 2014
                transparent PPPs            infrastructure
                                            investments
               Increased private –          (Baseline 2009:
               particularly domestic        17%; Target
               sector investments in        2014: 30%)
               public infrastructure and
               related services
Improving      Increased access to          Share of           Actual achievement
intermediation financial services           formally served    (2013) = 54%
environment                                 population
               Increased variety of         (Baseline 2009:
               financial products           28%; Target
                                            2014: 47%)
                Improved performance        Share of           Actual achievement
                and soundness of Tier 4     formally served    (2013) = 49%
                institutions                in rural areas
                                            (Baseline 2009:
                                            22%’ Target
                                            2014: 40%)

                                            Share of           Actual achievement
                                            Excluded           (2013) = 15%
                                            population
                                            (Baseline 2009:    (All data from FinScope
                                            30%; Target        III Survey)
                                            2014: 10%)
Improving       Enhanced efficiency of      Share of           Share of adults receiving
National        money transfers             population         money transfers (2013) =
Payments                                    engaged in         55%
Systems         Improved accessibility to   money transfers
                payment services            (Baseline 2009:
                                            35%; Target
                                            2014: 47%)

                Mobile money makes          Number of          Number of registered
                enhanced contribution to    mobile money       users of mobile money
                increasing access to        services           (2013) = 5.7 million.
                financial services          subscriptions      However, number of
                                            (Baseline March    current users of mobile
                                            2011: 2 million;   money (2013) = 9.4
                                            Target 2014: 6     million.
                                            million)
                                                               (Data from FinScope III
                                                               Survey)

                                             22	
	
69.     On the pensions front, considerable progress had been made in meeting the objective of
ensuring the development of a well-regulated and competitive pensions industry catering to both
mandatory and voluntary pension savings. At the close of the DPC operation, the URBRA Bill
had been enacted and URBRA had begun to function with a basic staff and to issue provisional
licenses to sector actors and a communications strategy has been launched. The next step of
issuing all of the regulations under the URBRA Act, finalizing the staffing of the institution
(including its CEO) and issuing permanent licenses to all pension schemes, originally to have
taken place under DPC2 and subsequently under the new Pension Reform Policy series, has
however yet to be completed. If the current momentum is maintained, these actions should take
place during 2015, even if the new Pension Reform Policy Credit is postponed or abandoned. A
sustainable public servants’ pension scheme is currently being designed (on a contributory model,
as opposed to the currently unfunded model) and should be implemented sometime in the
foreseeable future, either under the new series or on its own.

70.     One of the reasons that delays took place was on account of financial improprieties
identified in the handling of pension funds under the Ministry of Public Service. The Auditor
General’s Annual Report in June 2012 pointed to the misappropriation of some 165 billion
Shillings, arising as the result of a number of financial controls being circumvented, and
payments having apparently been made to ‘ghost pensioners’. As a consequence, the senior team
responsible for PSPF reforms was removed from the Ministry10, and a new team instituted, with
no pension knowledge and having to pick up the reform process from scratch. The result was
two-fold: on the one hand the introduction of the new team caused a certain amount of disruption
to the implementation process; on the other, it provided a stimulus to the Government to move
forward more decisively with the pension reform process, and was one of the reasons leading to
the strong focus on pensions in the new DPC operation.

71.     On the housing finance front, the availability of long term funding has shown an increase.
Of the two indicators for this sub-component, the one relating to the ratio of mortgage debt to
GDP was nearly achieved (1.9% vs. a target of 2%), very early on. However, this ratio slipped in
subsequent years, perhaps on account of the lagged effects of the global financial crisis (which
had its origins in housing finance). The second indicator, relating to the issuance of long term
debt appears to have been achieved. The BoU began issuing 15-yr bonds (with 20-yr bonds to
follow) to test the market as planned, as a result of which the yield curve became upward
sloping, with around 10% at the short end (3 months), rising to 13.94% at 10 years and 15.25%
at 15 years. Between 2011 and 2013, total issuance of government securities increased from
US$1.5 billion equivalent to US$1.9 billion equivalent. This increase reflected a big increase in
purchases by NSSF (the most important long term funder in the Ugandan market) from US$226
million equivalent to US$741 million equivalent, accompanied by an increase in its overall share
from 14.9% to 28.5%. Some question of attribution does remain however; it being not entirely
clear to what extent these achievements were the direct consequence of activities related to the
project.


																																																								
10	A	number	of	arrests	were	also	made	at	the	time	




                                                           23	
	
72.     On the PPP front however there were no outcomes to report, as the PPP Bill received
final approval only very recently, and could have had no attributable impact on the share of
private financing in infrastructure investments.

73.     On improving the intermediation environment, work on the Tier 4 regulatory bill (a
trigger for the second operation) has not yet been completed. However, the Government went
ahead with implementing the FMDP 2008-12, which addressed many of the key challenges
constraining access to financial services. The 2004 Financial Institutions Act was amended (as a
prior action to this operation), to facilitate new financial products such as Bancassurance, and a
set of Financial Institutions Statutory Instruments adopted, to provide regulations for a host of
activities, including supervision of institutions, and a Small Claims Procedure established within
the Commercial Court framework. This has proved to be a highly successful effort. The
FinScope III Survey 11 (Nov, 2013) observed that “Overall there has been a remarkable
improvement in financial inclusion in Uganda from 70% in 2009 to 85% in 2013”. This is
reflected in the outcome indicators, almost all of which were achieved by 2014. Specifically, the
share of formally served population (overall) reached 54% (target 47%); share of formally served
population in rural areas reached 49% (target 40%); and the share of excluded population
declined from 30% to 15% against a target of 10% (though this gap may well have narrowed
further during 2014).

74.     As regards improvements in the national payments systems, the trend in adults receiving
money transfers was markedly upwards. Although the trigger condition of overhauling the
National Payments System remained unfulfilled, the share of adults that received remittances
nearly doubled from 30% in 2009 to 55% in 2013. The most common formal method of
receiving funds was by mobile money (30%), which drove much of this growth12 . With the
Mobile Money Guidelines having been adopted, the number of registered mobile money users,
which was higher than bank account holders, reached 5.7 million in 2013 – just under the target
of 6 million. If one looks at the actual use of mobile money services, the total numbers were
much higher - around 9.4 million by 2013.

3.3    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

75.     Given the overall developmental challenges that Uganda was facing at the time that the
DPC was processed, the objectives of the operation were highly relevant. The operation, being
the first part of a programmatic series, targeted five strategic areas under two pillars to act as
proxies for a broader program aimed at building a more robust and deeper financial sector. The
design of the operation, in terms of choice of policy areas, was broadly consistent with the
objectives; however its design may have been overambitious and a narrower focus might have
made the project somewhat easier to implement. The slow pace of implementation led to the
program being terminated, and its second phase being rolled over into a new programmatic series

																																																								
	11	Prepared	by	the	Economic	Policy	Research	Centre	(EPRC),	Uganda		
12	The	FinScope	III	Survey	observes	(p.20)	that	if	mobile	money	is	excluded,	being	largely	used	for	money	transfers	and	

not	financial	intermediary,	formal	financial	inclusion	in	Uganda	remains	low	when	compared	with	other	countries	like	
South	Africa	and	Kenya,	where	similar	surveys	have	been	undertaken.	


                                                           24	
	
in support of pension reform, progress of which has also stalled. As such, relevance of design is
considered modest.

76.     Some of the delay that took place in implementation of the program could perhaps be
attributed to the scandals unearthed in the Ministry of Public Service in the handling of pension
funds, and the actions that had to be taken to deal with the problem. That said, many of the
reforms being enacted generated considerable and time-consuming debate in both Cabinet and
Parliament, and the Government was unable or unwilling to take effective steps to accelerate
their passage into law. The reform of the PSPF – already impacted by the scandals – is an
example. Cabinet approval of the policy paper on PSPF reform was a trigger for the second
phase of the series. However, the paper, which proposed both parametric and systemic reforms,
changing the nature and foundation of the existing scheme, could be formulated only after an
Inter-Ministerial task force (incorporating the Ministries of Public Service, Finance, Planning
and Economic Development, Defence, Local Government, Justice and Constitutional Affairs,
Gender, Labor and Social Development, and the Office of the Auditor General) was appointed to
consider the actuarial evaluation conducted earlier and the various proposals for reforming the
existing scheme. To ensure political buy-in, the task force had to consult with a large number of
stakeholders (especially officials in the Ministry of Health responsible for introducing the
National Health Insurance Scheme), before it could submit its recommendations in 2012,
subsequently translated into a policy paper in 2013 for approval by Cabinet, which is still
awaited. The design of the project clearly did not take into account the possibility of delays
arising on this account, or of a declining commitment on the part of government to specific
reforms.

77.      In terms of overall achievement of PDO, though many of the outcome targets remained
unrealized, the operation did achieve the following: It (a) supported the critical, initial stage of
pension reform, including the key steps of initiating liberalization of the market, reform of the
public service pension scheme and putting an efficient and well-resourced regulator in place,
thereby setting the stage for deeper reforms in the next programmatic series, (b) contributed - in
some degree - to increasing the availability of term finance in the market, through issuance for
the first time of long term bonds, (c) supported the adoption of a PPP policy, though its passage
through Parliament took significantly longer than expected, and (d) contributed to a significant
improvement in financial inclusion in the country, mostly by facilitating and encouraging the use
of Mobile Money platforms for money transfers. Viewed as the first step of a larger policy
reform program, these might be considered as reasonable achievements, contributing
significantly towards the project’s developmental objective of building a deeper and more
efficient financial sector. Viewed from a stand-alone perspective, however, given that the
triggers for the second operation have even now (three years after project effectiveness) not been
fully met, these results appear somewhat less significant in their overall impact. As such, overall
outcomes are rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.




                                                25	
	
3.4    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously
covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

78.     As noted in the Program Document this operation focused on reforms aimed at financial
inclusion, consumer protection, and increased financial sector regulation and supervision
(including for pension schemes), which would be expected to have some direct impact on the
lower segments of the population. However, as regards the policy measures being supported with
a view to reforming the public sector pension fund, the impact on civil servants would be to
reduce future pension benefits. However, this would affect only relatively higher-paid workers
and therefore would not have any impact on overall poverty levels I the country.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

79.      The operation has contributed to strengthening the institutional arrangements for
mobilizing long term funds. This is reflected, in particular, through the staffing URBRA (though
it is still on-going), as well as the appointment of its CEO (facilitated by the DFID-WB trust
Fund13, which financed an external recruitment company to take charge of the process), and the
institution should be fully staffed in the foreseeable future. URBRA now has a fully constituted
Board, which meets regularly and is reaching out to coordinate with other financial sector
regulators in the country. A strong, independent regulator will be key to making the reformed,
competitive pension system work effectively and to build a strong basis to work on extending
pension coverage.

80.    Secondly, as mentioned in Section 2.2, the capacity of the MoPS has been rebuilt through
a change in its management and reconstitution of its pension team.

81.     From a longer-term perspective, the Government has been taking steps to strengthen
oversight institutions. For instance, it passed the 2008 Audit Act providing the Office of the
Auditor General (OAG) with full autonomy in terms of budgeting and operations. The OAG has
been adequately funded in recent years to increase the scope, staffing and execution of audits,
and the current Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in Parliament and the Local Government
Public Accounts Committee (LGPAC) have improved their follow up on irregularities identified
in the AG’s reports.

(c)          Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

3.5          Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

82.          No beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were held.


																																																								
13	A	recipient	executed	trust	fund,	funded	by	DFID	under	the	supervision	of	the	World	Bank.	




                                                           26	
	
4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
         Rating: The overall risk is rated as Significant

83.     This overall risk rating is based on an assessment of the various sub-risks to the operation
that the program document identified and which remain relevant:

84.     Political Risk (Significant): Though there has been relative political stability in Uganda
for some time, civil disturbances have revealed fractures in the political landscape. In addition,
governance-related risks have posed a major threat, both at the macro level and at the level of the
operation. Pension reforms are always highly political and usually unpopular, as measures to put
pension funds on a sound footing often necessitate an increase in beneficiary contributions, and
there is therefore always the possibility of reform reversal. To mitigate political risk, the
Government has followed a consultative process and intends to use a public awareness campaign
to explain the new regulatory framework to both pension scheme administrators and the targeted
public.

85.     Macroeconomic Policy Management (Moderate): For over two decades Uganda had
maintained a consistent program of prudent macroeconomic management and market-oriented
policy reforms that delivered strong economic growth and poverty reduction. Annual growth had
averaged 6.6 per cent since the 1990s, driven by private investment and exports. However, a
series of shocks over the most recent five year period has resulted in the fiscal position
deteriorating, inflation soaring to double digit levels and growth slowing down to 3.4 per cent
during FY12. It has taken cautious monetary and fiscal adjustments to re-start recovery in FY13,
during which growth is estimated to have reached 5.8 per cent. Rapid population growth has
meant moreover that the increase in per capita incomes was also modest. Uganda’s CPIA14 rating
for both 2013 and 2014 was 4.2 for the group of macroeconomic indicators 15 , reflecting a
performance that was reasonably strong in comparison with other IDA countries, the average for
whom was 3.4.

86.      Fraud and Corruption (Significant): Petty and high-level corruption has been prevalent
for some time, as is reflected in Uganda’s low ranking in the Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index. Corruption is most rife in procurement, administration of revenues
and public expenditures. The Bank has been working with the Government to strengthen
institutions responsible for accountability, rethink decentralization and service delivery options
and policies, and strengthen public service and financial management reform processes. In the
pensions sector, the scandal over ‘ghost pensioners’ illustrated the vulnerability of public
institutions to fraud. However, the transformation of the Public Sector Pension Scheme into a
separate, funded pension fund – one of the key objectives of the pension reform being supported
by this project - should aid transparency, with governance improvements driven by the
appointment of a trustee board.


																																																								
14	Country	Policy	and	Institutions	Assessments	
15	Monetary	and	Exchange	Rate	Policies,	Fiscal	Policy	and	Debt	Sustainability.	



                                                           27	
	
87.     Public Financial Management and Procurement (Moderate): While Uganda’s budget is
published and relatively transparent, the absence of an accounting mechanism, and the variance
of actual expenditures to original budget, has undermined confidence in the budget as a
statement of government intent. Capacity constraints in procurement oversight bodies have also
resulted in limited compliance with procurement processes. To help mitigate these risks, the
Bank had supported efforts to address weaknesses in the PFM system under the Joint Budget
Support Framework and is coordinating with other development partners to try and strengthen
procurement regulations and procedures.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

88.     This operation was built on a large body of high quality analytical work on the financial
sector, which underpinned the dialogue with Government on fiscal policy and financial support
issues. The Government’s macroeconomic program had been supported in earlier years by
successive three-year IMF Policy Support Instrument (PSI) arrangements, and the Bank and IMF
collaborated in the follow up to the 2005 Financial Sector Assessment, prepared in August 2011.
In addition to the IMF, the Bank consulted closely with other development partners active in the
financial sector – most notably the German cooperation agency (Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit – GTZ) and the UK Department for International Development (DFID) – in
preparing this operation.

89.     Prior to DPC preparation, the Bank team produced a number of diagnostic pieces in the
context of reforms needed in order to strengthen the Ugandan financial system and improve
access to finance. Important among these was the report on “Making Finance Work for Uganda”
(December, 2009), referred to Section 1.1, which provided a clear roadmap to the reforms
necessary for improving access to finance as well the supply of term finance in the economy.
Other diagnostic pieces included a consultant report on Development of PPP Frameworks in
Uganda (2010); the FinScope survey report (2010); a World Bank policy note on Uganda:
Reform Options of the Public Service Pension Fund (2011); Options for the Reform of the Public
Service Pension Fund in Uganda – Analysis of Cabinet Memorandum (2013); a consultant
review of the Investments of the National Social Security Fund of Uganda (2011), and a
consultant report on Expanding Housing Finance in Uganda (2009); in addition to the IMF-Bank
conducted Financial Sector Assessments (2005) and (2011 update), referred to above.

90.     The DPC was based on the Government’s preference for a single tranche operation that
could be delivered within a 12-month time frame. The team worked fairly quickly to prepare the
project, the time frame from Concept Note Review to Board approval constituting only about
seven months. Despite the short preparation time frame, design of the operation was highly
relevant from a strategic perspective, its policy areas corresponded to the priorities of the
financial sector reform agenda identified by the prior diagnostic work. However, in light of the

                                               28	
	
political difficulties of securing the passage iof key legislation through Parliament, and the
Government’s somewhat limited commitment to implementing reforms, outside of the pensions
area, this design may have been somewhat overambitious in its scope. The lack of subsequent
action in meeting the non-pension triggers, and the narrowing of the focus of the new DPL series
to pension reform policy, bear testimony to this..

(b)      Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements)

         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

91.     There appears to have been something of a hiatus, once the operation became effective,
when the dialogue with the Government subsided for a period, and implementation support of
key components did not take place with the requisite intensity16. The pace of implementation
appears to have picked up subsequently, with the transition of TTLs. Regular missions from
headquarters picked up, with technical experts brought to the field to assess the status of the
reform program and to begin preparation of the second phase of the DPC. Reform options for the
PSPF were evaluated in partnership with the authorities, and technical assistance provided to
URBRA (via a grant funded by DFID) to help the institution become an effective and efficient
supervisor of the pension sector. Seminars on pension reform were conducted with
representatives from the relevant Ministries and URBRA, as part of a capacity building effort,
and to discuss the future structure of the pension system in Uganda. Priority policy actions for
the next phase of the DPC (the Pension Reform Policy Credit) were identified and agreed with
government counterparts. The Bank team worked in close coordination with other development
partners, and also with other World Bank teams, including a parallel mission discussing a
technical assistance program on financial inclusion, payment systems, and related areas, with
Bank of Uganda, based on the needs identified in a prioritization exercise undertaken in October,
2012. Monitoring of outcome indicators took place from the field; this being facilitated by the
fact that much of the data needed was being compiled by the main counterparts, MoFEP and
BoU.

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

92.     The Financial Sector DPC marked an important step in the Government of Uganda’s
efforts to establish the financial sector on a sound footing. The operation, which was based on
extensive analytical work and on-going dialogue with the authorities, addressed the major
structural reform policy areas needed to initiate reform of the financial sector and enable it to
support broad-based private sector growth.

93.           The DPC called for a number of far-reaching steps to be taken as prior actions, most of
which were quickly met prior to Board approval. The priority actions proved important to
maintain government focus on its reform program, and good progress was in fact made in some
areas, despite challenges arising from governance-related scandals in the pensions sector.
																																																								
16	No	Aide	Memoires	were	recorded	in	the	system	after	project	effectiveness	until	November,	2012.	




                                                          29	
	
However, as noted earlier, the triggers for the second operation took much longer to achieve than
originally envisaged, and have even now not been fully met. Preparation of the new operation –
that was intended to take the government’s reform effort forward on its planned trajectory – did
make considerable progress, with many of the new agreed prior actions having been met, but in
June, 2014, the operation stalled completely, with no clear indication of whether the authorities
wish to proceed with it..

94.     The rating reflects the proactive steps taken by the Bank to arrive at this outcome, but
also takes into account a possible slackening of supervision intensity during the transitionary
period after effectiveness of the DPC, in-between TTLs, which may have contributed to the slow
pace of progress in meeting some of the triggers for the second phase.

5.2      Borrower Performance

      (a) Government Performance

         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

95.      The Government of Uganda had earlier shown strong commitment to the financial sector
reform agenda. This was true not only of pension reform, where the urgency to put the sector on
a sound footing was relatively high, but also of other areas not directly supported by the project,
such as strengthening banking regulation and supervision, where the World Bank and GIZ were
willing to provide technical assistance support. The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development was a champion of this reform process, which initially yielded some significant
results.

96.     The fact that the start of the second phase of the original DPC program was delayed in
part reflected both the realities of the political process and the limits of government commitment.
Given the bold and far-reaching nature of some of the reforms being implemented and the
political sensitivities arising, passage of key legislation through Parliament was bound to be
difficult and relatively slow. This was compounded by the governance lapses that came to light
in the pensions sector. In some areas, notwithstanding these challenges, the Government stayed
on course; leading to the expectation that the forthcoming Pension Reform Policy Credit would
be implemented on schedule. This expectation has for the moment been put on hold. In other
areas, such as housing finance, microfinance and the payments system, governmental action
never really picked up momentum.

      (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

97.   The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development was responsible for
implementing the project and monitoring progress under the program, in collaboration with the
Bank of Uganda. The progress of financial sector reform was monitored through the
Government’s monitoring framework for its National Development Plan. BoU was also involved



                                                30	
	
directly via its role in follow up to the FMDP (2008-12), through publication of annual progress
reports on the implementation of the Plan.

98.     As this was a single tranche operation, specific implementation actions are difficult to
differentiate from those under general Government performance, as discussed above. Tranche
release conditions were met on schedule in November, 2011, and the tranche was released by the
World Bank at that time.

     (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

99.    The moderately satisfactory rating reflects an initially high level of commitment
demonstrated by the Government to implement an admittedly politically difficult (but
economically essential) reform program for the financial sector, which resulted in a reasonable
amount of progress by the time of project closure. The proposed new programmatic DPC series,
which replaced the second phase of the original series, provided a second opportunity for the
Government to advance the reform agenda for the financial sector, until political constraints
overwhelmed its momentum, leaving the developmental objectives of the DPC program
unrealized.

6.      Lessons Learned

100. Strong analytical foundations are essential for a successful operation: While the
Government had taken some initial bold steps to initiate the process of financial sector reform,
the Bank had supported these reforms through high quality analytical work, coupled with
technical; assistance and capacity building. The analytical work that preceded the operation
helped provide a road map for reform, which shaped the eventual architecture of the project.
Technical assistance provided by the Bank and donors helped build critical capacities for
implementing reforms across the financial sector. Carrying out a wide range of diagnostic
activities helped Bank teams maintain a productive sector dialogue, as a way of ensuring that
when the reform windows opened the Bank would be well placed to support government
priorities.

101. Ownership and commitment are critical to success: The operation was fully client
driven, building on the Financial Market Development Plan (2008-12), which was being
implemented and supported by various donors, including the Bank. The creation of URBRA, the
presentation of a Bill to Parliament to gradually remove the monopoly of NSSF in the provision
of pension services, the elaboration of a reform proposal for the PSPF, were all important steps
in the process of financial sector reform. However, when the Government’s commitment to the
reform process failed to stay its course – initially changing focus to the pensions sector, and
subsequently stalling even there – progress towards meeting the objectives of the development
policy credit became impossible to sustain.

102. Building a political constituency of support is key to the pace of progress of reforms:
One of the key reasons for delays in meeting the triggers for the second phase of the DPC was

                                               31	
	
the difficulty in ensuring passage of legislation through Parliament. On account of their impact
on vested interests, many of the reforms – especially of the pensions sector – generated
considerable debate in Parliament, necessitating negotiation of innumerable suggested revisions
and the building up of support among key legislators. This indicates why reform processes
cannot be rushed, and why time necessarily has to be spent in explaining – to legislators and
public alike - the logic underpinning reform measures, so as to build up support for their passage
into law.

103. An overly ambitious agenda may be difficult to sustain: Another aspect of the
difficulty in meeting the triggers for the second phase operation was the overly ambitious nature
of the initial reform agenda, which called for actions simultaneously on a large number of fronts.
A narrower focus might have made the project more manageable. Eventually, this approach did
prevail with the design of the proposed new DPC series on Pension Reform, though by then
progress in several policy reform areas of the original project had fallen well behind schedule.




                                               32	
	
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies
No comments were raised.


(b) Co-financiers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A    	




                                        33	
	
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

         (a) Task Team Members

Names                        Title                        Unit       Responsibility

                                      Lending
Antony Randle                Sr. Financial Sector        FCMNB
Clare	Busingye               Program Assistant           AFMUG
Howard Centenary             Sr Procurement Specialist   AFTPE
Javier Suarez                Sector Leader               LCSPF     Task Team Leader
Jos Verbeek                  Lead Economist              DECPG
Justina	Kajange              Program Assistant           AFCE1
                             Country Program
Kathryn	Ann	Funk                                         EACCQ
                             Coordinator
Manush Hristov               Sr. Counsel                 LEGES     Lawyer
Moses Kibirige               Sr. PSD Specialist          AFTFE
Noeline	Kitonsa              Executive Assistant         AFMJB
Paul Kamuchwezi              Fin Mgt Specialist          AFTME
Peace	K.	Lwanga
Rachel Sebudde               Sr. Economist               AFTP5
Rajic Sondhi
Ravi Ruparel                 Consultant                  AFTFE
Satish	Kumar	Shivakumar      Finance Officer             CTRLN
Simon Walley                 Program Coordinator         FCMNB
                             Sr. Social Protection
Tatyana Bogomolova                                       HDNSP
                             Specialist
Veronique	Gorce	Devincenti   Program Assistant           AFTFE
Yeshareg	Dagne               Program Assistant           AFTFE
                                 Supervision / ICR
Andrea Dall’Olio             Lead Economist              AFTFE     Task Team Leader
Annette	Nabisere	Byansansa   Team Assistant              AFMUG
Antony Randle                Sr. Financial Sector        FCMNB

                                          34	
  	
Dileep	M.	Wagle	                Consultant                 AFTFE       ICR Author
Elena A. Beloderik              Information Specialist     SECPO
                                Sr. Financial Sector
Fiona E. Steward                                           FCMNB
                                Specialist
Furzana Banu Jamal Mohamed      Finance Analyst            CTRLC
Irene	Marguerite	Nnomo	
                                Program Assistant          GTCDR
Ayinda‐Mah	
Javier Suarez                   Sector Leader              LCSPF       Task Team Leader
Juliet Allen Gombya-
                                Team Assistant             AFMUG
Ssembajjwe
Lavanya Mummadavarapu           Sr Finance Assistant       CRTLN
Michael J. Fuchs
Moses Kibirige                  Sr. PAS Specialist         AFTFE
Noeline Kitonsa                 Executive Assistant        AFMBJ
Tatiana Segal                   Sr Operations Officer       ECSF1
                                Sr. Social Protection
Tatyana Bogomolova                                         HDNSP
                                Specialist

            (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)

                                    Staff time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               US$ thousands
  Stage of project cycle
                                Number of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)

  Lending
  FY10                                    34.42                     111.84
  FY11                                    32.74                     130.99
  FY12                                    3.77                      14.63
                       Total:                                       257.46
  Supervision
  FY12                                    16.59                     79.93
  FY13                                    7.94                      37.16
  FY14                                     0.3                       1.6
                       Total:             24.83                     118.69




                                             35	
  	
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Government of Uganda was invited to provide its own assessment of the operation
and also to comment on the draft ICR but declined to do so.




                                         36	
	
Annex 3. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     37	
	
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents

    1. Program Document for the Financial Sector Development Policy Credit; May 31,
       2011 (Report No. 62013-UG)
    2. Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy; May 26, 2011
    3. Tranche Release Document; November 3, 2011
    4. Financing Agreement; August 11, 2011
    5. Mission Aide Memoires
    6. Reports:
       (a) Making Finance Work for Uganda, December 2009 (World Bank)
       (b) Expanding Housing Finance in Uganda, Task 2 (Study to examine the use of
           retail funds for mortgage lending), Genesis Analytics, June 2009
       (c) Uganda: Reform Options of the Public Service Pension Fund, World Bank,
           April 2011
       (d) Options for the Reform of the Public Service Pension Fund in Uganda –
           Analysis of Cabinet Memorandum CT (2013) 12 – Technical Note (World
           Bank, October 2013)
       (e) Uganda 2013: FinScope III Survey – Key Findings (Unlocking Barriers to
           Financial Inclusion), November 2013
       (f) Investments of the National Social Security Fund of Uganda: Present situation
           and recommendations, Peter Holzwer, Consultant, March 2011
       (g) Financial Sector Assessment Program Update: Uganda – Aide Memoire;
           International Monetary Fund/World bank; June 2012




                                          38	
	
