CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 566 CE
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON (hereinafter called
DFCC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower, for
on lending to DFCC, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
five hundred thousand dollars (S4,500.000). on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement. but only on condition that DFCC agrees
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS DFCC. in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower. has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement. unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts (A) and (B)
of the Project; Management
and Operations of DFCC
Section 2.01. DFCC shall carry out Parts (A) and (B) of the Project described
in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations
and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified
management, and in accordance with the DFCC Act and the Statement of Policy.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, DFCC shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, DFCC shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Borrower of the amount
to be used for the investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by DFCC for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (includinig a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and DFCC
shall otherwise agree, shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
approval by the Association of such Investment Project, or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of such
Investment Project, and shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Association and DFCC shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall
submit applications pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section on or before September 30, 1977.
Section 2.03. DFCC undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby DFCC shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and DFCC,
including, in the case of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be
appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of DFCC to: (i) require the


﻿5
Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loans shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use. or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or DFCC shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment EnLerprise;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use
of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with DFCC.
Section 2.04. DFCC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and DFCC,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. DFCC shall submit to the Association for its prior approval,
any substantial changes proposed to be made by DFCC in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.06. DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, or amending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of., the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and DFCC shall otherwise agree,
DFCC: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer, encumber or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business and (ii) shall


﻿6
take all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.08. If DFCC establishes or acquires any subsidiary, DFCC shall
cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of DFCC hereunder
to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though
such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.09. DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations under agreements
under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of DFCC by
the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
DFCC shall promptly inform the Association of any action which would have the
effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Section 2.10. For the purpose of Part (B) of the Project, DFCC shall, not
later than December 31, 1975 or such other date as shall be agreed with t-he
Association, (a) recruit a local tourism specialist whose qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association or (b) make adequate arrangements, acceptable to the Association,
for the training of a DFCC staff member in the evaluation and supervision of
hotel projects.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. DFCC shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Parts (A) and (B) of the Project and of each Investment Project (including
the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of DFCC.
Section 3.02. DFCC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts


﻿7
and financial statements of DFCC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the DFCC's
control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary
or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 3.04. DFCC shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of DFCC which, in the judgment of the
Association, would materially affect the DFCC's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Association
and DFCC, DFCC shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of DFCC and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than seven times the
consolidated capital and surplus of DFCC and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by DFCC or any subsidiary maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   The term incurring of debt includes the assumption and guarantee of
debt and any renewal, extension, or modification of the terms of the debt or
of the assumption or guarantee thereof.
(c)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the cite and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(d)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing official rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt.


﻿8
(e)   "consolidated debt of DFCC and all its subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of DFCC and subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by DFCC
to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to DFCC or to any other subsidiary.
(f)   "consolidated capital and surplus of DFCC and subsidiaries" means
the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the
Borrower and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent
equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the
Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.06. DFCC shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Rupees) used in
its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 3.07. The Association and DFCC shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the administration, operations and financial condition of DFCC and its
subsidiaries, and DFCC shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Investment
Enterprises, the  Investment Projects, the   sub-loans and   investments, the
administration, operations and financial condition of DFCC and subsidiaries, and
the progress of Parts (A) and (B) of the Project.
Section 3.08. DFCC shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
docuMnCts.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date- Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.0 1. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of DFCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date eighteen years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿9
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify DFCC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.0 1. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default: nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be gTiven or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail.
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington. D.C.
For DFCC:
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
P. 0. Box 1397
Colombo, Sri Lanka


﻿10
Cable address:
DELCEY
Colombo
Section 5.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of DFCC may be taken or executed by the General Manager of DFCC or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.04. DFCC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of DFCC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by DFCC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.05. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
By /s/ William Tennekoon
Authorized Represen tativ'e


