CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 566 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Development Finance Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 566 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Development Finance Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 27, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1975, between THE REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by    the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon (hereinafter called DFCC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance. the Borrower will make available to DFCC the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and DFCC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DFCC" me;.,ns the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon, a
body corporate constituted pursuant to the Development Finance Corporation of
Ceylon Act No. 35 of 1955 of the Borrower as amended by Act No. 8 of 1958,
Act No. I of 1967, and Act No. 12 of 1974;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and DFCC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DFCC pursuant to Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Sub-Loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
DFCC in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to DFCC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies
as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(e) of this
Agreement;
(e)   "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by DFCC in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to DFCC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which DFCC proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment:
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(h)   "Rupees" and the letters ''Rs'' mean the currency of the Borrower;
(i)   "DFCC Act" means the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
Act No. 35 of 1955 of the Borrower, as amended by Act No. 8 of 1958, Act
No. I of 1967 and Act No. 12 of 1974, as further amended from time to time,
and shall include the Regulations prescribed thereunder, as amended;
(j)   "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Policy approved by
the Board of Directors of DFCC on April 11, 1967, as amended to the date of
this Agreement, and as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval
of the Association;
(k)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or is effectively


﻿5
controlled by DFCC or by any one or more subsidiaries of DFCC or by DFCC
and one or more of its subsidiaries; and
(1)   "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreements (No. 520 CE
and No. 634 CE) between the Bank and DFCC dated November 22, 1967 and
July 18, 1969, respectively.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0 1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million five hundred thousand
dollars (S4,500,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates DFCC as its representative for the
purpose of taking any action required or permitted under the provisions of Section
2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the amount
of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account (i) in respect of Part
(A) of the Project up to the equivalent of four million four hundred and eighty-five
thousand dollars (S4,485,000) for amounts expended by DFCC for an Investment
Project, or if the Association shall so agree, for expenditures required to be made
by DFCC for an Investment Project, to finance the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested; (ii) in respect of Part (B) of the Project, for amounts expended (or,
if the Association shall so agree, for such amounts as shall be required for
expenditures to be made) by DFCC to finance ip to the equivalent of fifteen
thousand dollars (S15,000) of the reasonable foreign currency cost of technical
services for the training of the staff of DFCC;
(b)   Notwithstanding the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth
in paragraph (a) above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that any amount
under (a) (ii) shall not be needed to meet the foreign currency cost under Part
(B) of the Project, the Association shall, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
such amount to the financing of Part (A) of the Project.
(c)   Withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to paragraph (a)(i) of
this Section may be made in respect of:


﻿6
(i)         expenditures in currencies other than the currency of the
Borrower for goods (except goods described in subparagraph (ii)
of this paragraph (c)) produced outside Sri Lanka; and
(ii)       the equivalent of sixty-five per cent (65%) of expenditures for
goods, for tourism Investment Projects, produced outside Sri
Lanka and purchased from suppliers in Sri Lanka and paid for
in the currency of the Borrower.
(d)   No withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment
unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Association;
or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall
have authorized withdrawals.
(e)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement which, together
with any other amount or amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the
same project under the Development Credit Agreement or under the Prior Loan
Agreements, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000), the foregoing amount being subject
to change from time to time as agreed between the Association and the Borrower.
(f)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall
be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment Enterprise in respect
of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in respect of an investment,
if such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and information required
by Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, if
such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.


﻿7
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in  semi-annual installments payable on   each  June 15 and   December 15
commencing December 15, 1985 and ending June 15, 2025, each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 1995 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2t) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
DFCC for the purpose of carrying out Parts (A) and (B) of the Project under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DFCC
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, or amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions. or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision, to take any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by DFCC of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in
order to enable DFCC to perform such obligations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall (a) cause the Ceylon Tourist Board to
employ not later than December 31, 1975 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association a tourism advisor whose qualifications, experience and terms
of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association, such tourism advisor to be


﻿8
employed for a period of not less than eighteen months; and (b) make its best
efforts to obtain external aid for the financing of the services of said tourism
advisor, or make available to said Board, out of its own resources, the funds needed
for such financing.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of DFCC
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to DFCC having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(c)   a change shall have been made in the DFCC Act which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of DFCC;
(d)   the Statement of Policy shall have been amended without the prior
approval of the Association; and
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by DFCC, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of DFCC's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of
its management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower: and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
DFCC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and DFCC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, DFCC. and is legally binding upon DFCC
in accordance with its terms: and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and DFCC.
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DFCC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 25, 1975, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
the Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sectioni 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
Colombo
Sri Lanka


﻿10
Cable address:
SECMINPLAN
Colombo
Sri Lanka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                               440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                      24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ Neville Kanakaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
(A)   The financing by DFCC of specific development Projects through loans to
and investments in private enterprises in the territories of the Borrower in
accordance with the DFCC Act and Statement of Policy.
(B)   The provision of technical services for the training of DFCC staff in the
evaluation and supervision of hotel projects.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraphs are added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
"14. The term 'DFCC' has the meaning set forth in paragraph (a) of
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(2)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02(e) of the Project
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Association
in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may
by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of DFCC to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account,
as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit.
Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall
be cancelled."


