Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19822-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 132.3 MILLION (US$182.4 million equivalent)
TO
INDIA
FOR A
UTTAR PRADESH THIRD DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
November 15, 1999
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUJIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupees
Rs. 43.57 =US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0229 = Rs. 1
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABSA                  Assistant Basic Shiksha Adhikari
AS                    Alternative Schooling
AWPB                  Amlual Work Plan and Budget
BRC                   Block Resource Center
DIET                  District Institute for Education and Training
DOE                   Department of Education
DPEP                  District Primary Education Program
DPO                   District Program Office
ECCE                  Early Childhood Care and Education
EFAPB                 Education for All Project Board
EGS                   Education Guarantee Scheme
EMIS                  Educational Management Information System
FMIS                  Financial Management Information System
GOUP                  Government of Uttar Pradesh
ICDS                  Integrated Child Development Services
JRM                   Joint Review Mission
NPRC                  Nyay Panchayat Resource Centre
MS                    Mahila Samakhya
PFMS                  Project Financial Management Reporting System
PMIS                  Project Management Information Systems
PMR                   Project Management Report
PRI                   Panchayati Raj Institution
SC                    Scheduled Caste
SCERT                 State Council of Educational Research and Training
SIE                   State Institute of Education
SIEMAT                State Institute for Educational Management and Training
SIET                  State Institute of Educational Technology
SPO                   State Project Office
ST                    Scheduled Tribe
STO                   State Textbook Office
TLM                   Teaching and Learning Materials
VP                    Village Panchayat
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ralph W. Harbison
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Juan Prawda



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        15
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          18
4. Institutional                                                                      19
5. Social                                                                             21
6. Environmental assessment                                                           22
7. Participatory approach                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     24
2. Critical risks                                                                     25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      27
G. Main coiiditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            28
2. Other                                                                               28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           29
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            48
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      70
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             76
MAP(S)
IBRD 30392



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Education Sector Unit
Date: November 15, 1999                          Team Leader: Juan Prawda
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim           Sector Manager/Director: Ralph W. Harbison
Project ID: P050667                              Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
D Loan          I Credit       O Grant         E Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 182.40
Proposed Terms: B To be defined   B Multicurrency C Single currency
El Standard Variable B Fixed       O LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:                  0.5%
Service charge                   0.75%
|FinanciPlaWPn. J To be defed
1 i  ;_M*_ ,,M_,,,.; ,,, s,,a a ,.........................        T  .,  ta
Government                                                    32.30           0.00         32.30
IBRD
IDA                                                          181.00           1.40        182.40
Total:                                                       213.30           1.40        214.70
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (GOI)
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE KE LIYE SHIKSHA PARIYOJANA PARISHAD
Other Agency(ies):
Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad (State Implementation Society -SIS)
Address: Vidya Bhawan, Nishatganj, Lucknow 226007
Contact Person: Ms. Vrinda Sarup, State Project Director
Tel: 522-386477/386480                Fax: 522-386481/39702               Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYiUS$M):
AnnuFY'     201          2003 -4-2 4.2                                  296 -,
Annual    12.7   I      40.8                               35.7          5.0
Cumulative    12.7         53.5        95.5       141.7       177.4       182.4
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/2000  Expected closing date:  09/30/2005
6CS FAC PWI Odotob., SI.l



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Anfnex 1)
To assist the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) in its efforts towards building capacity for ensuring
that all 6-10 year old children in 42 districts of the state, especially from socially disadvantaged groups,
complete a five-year primary education cycle of appropriate quality. This project will contribute to further
increasing the geographical scope of the Bank-assisted Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Projects (UPBEP I
and II) and the Second District Primary Education Project (DPEP II) in the context of the current GOUP's
reform.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Arunex 1)
The key output project performance indicators to monitor would be: (a) percent increase in gross
enrollment and retention (decreased repetition and drop-out) at lower primary level in each project district
by socially disadvantaged groups (girls, sclheduled caste [SC] and scheduled tribe [ST]) and net enrollment
rates as they become available; (b) percent gains in learning achievement of children in mathematics and
language with respect to a district-specific Ibaseline assessment (by girls, SC and ST); and (c) increase in
enrollment of working children and children with disabilities in schools.
The key process project performance indicators appearing in Annex 1 would monitor the: (d) increased
number of student places created; (e) increaLsed number of qualified teachers, para-teachers and alternative
schooling (AS) instructors and thus improved student teacher ratios; (f) enhanced support from and
involvement of Village Education Committees (VECs) and community members in achieving universal
primary education in their catchment area; ig) improvements in teaching-learning conditions and practices
in the classrooms; (h) improvements in the pedagogical support systems for teachers; (h) improved
management of primary education by the state and district education units; (i) utilization of the educational,
project and financial management information systems (EMIS, PMIS and FMIS) for the formulation of
state and district annual working plans and budgets (AWPBs); and (j) improved capacity of state and
district institutions and/or groups to implefrrent their assigned pedagogical and managerial project-related
tasks.
The key project-related input indicators withf respect to civil works, staff, convergence with other programs,
community mobilization, training, teaching and learning quality inputs and strengthening the capacity of
state and district institutions for monitoring, research and evaluation to be followed up during project
implementation are listed in the last section of Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17241                           Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/15/98
The project is consistent with the over-riding poverty reduction objective of the Bank Group and the
reorientation of the Bank strategy in India as explained in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed
by the Board on January 15, 1998 (Progress Report to the Board dated February 15, 1999). Within the
basic thrust to assist India to promote accelerated growth with equity and to focus mainly on those states
that have chosen to embark on a comprehensive program of economic reforms, the proposed project
supports the GOUP. Uttar Pradesh (UP) is a state with one of the lowest social indicators that has started
to implement a program of sustainable economic reforms. The Bank's 1997 Poverty Assessment suggests
that India's slow rate of poverty reduction anid large mass of poverty call for the Bank Group's assistance
-2 -



strategy to support India's effort to accelerate growth in gross domestic product and invest in human
capital. A key component of the Bank Group's strategy in India, therefore, is to focus on helping GOUP
progress rapidly towards universal primary education by supplementing increased state government
expenditures and increasing further the geographical scope of the Bank-assisted UPBEP and DPEP in the
state in the context of the current GOUP's reform.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
One-sixth of the world's population is in India and one-sixth of Indians live in UP. With 160 million
people, it is not only the most populous Indian state but also one of the poorest. Despite its rich natural
and human resources, 42 percent of UP's rural population is below the poverty line. UP also has a female
literacy rate of 25.3 percent which is well below the national average of 39.2 percent (Census, 1991). The
low literacy rates are further compounded by enormous inequalities in terms of region, urban and rural
population, gender and social groups such as scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and minorities. The key
education sector issues in the state in addition to low levels of literacy are thus inadequate access and
disparate enrollment, low efficiency, poor learning outcomes, inadequate pedagogical support, and weak
management.
Inadequate access and disparate enrollment: Notwithstanding that the number of children enrolled in
primary schools has increased in the state by 23 percent during the past eight years, it is estimated that
about 5.4 million children (of which about 1.3 million are from the SC population and 3.3 million are
girls) are still not enrolled in primary schools in the 42 project districts. Estimates indicate that while girls
constitute around 47 percent of total school-going age population (6-10 years) and the SC population
constitutes 21 percent, their representation is only 21 percent and I 1 percent respectively in the total school
enrollment, with a sizeable proportion of girls not in school being Muslims. There are about 3,102
unserved habitations in all project districts entitled to have a school building as per the state norm, but still
unserved. Many habitations suffer from dislocation of primary education due to floods up to several
months in a year. The low school participation is further compounded by the fact that several districts
suffer from the problem of working children in concentrated pockets.
Low efficiency: Low retention is common across all the proposed project districts with wide variations.
The average retention rate ranges from 32 percent in Pratapgarh district to 81 percent in Champawat
district. Inadequate physical facilities with respect to the availability of toilets, drinking water and
classrooms, the limited interaction among the teachers, community and guardians particularly in the
disadvantaged sections, and the social discrimination towards SC children compound the problem. No
more than 20 percent of female first graders from the poorest two quintiles in the state get promoted to
second grade. High drop-out and repetition thus lead to substantial wastage of resources.
Poor learning outcomes: Achievement levels in the project districts are dismally low with the average
scores for Grade 4 ranging from 35 to 54 percent in language and from 16 to 40 percent in Mathematics.
Wide inter-district variations exist in Grade I with the range being 23 to 71 percent in Language and 33 to
76 percent in Mathematics. The low levels of achievement can be attributed largely to poor quality of
schooling, including inadequate early childhood education facilities, poor quality of educational inputs in
the schools, lack of relevance and child-centeredness in the curriculum, poor teaching skills in class
management, outmoded teaching and learning practices and materials, low teacher motivation, high
incidence of teacher absenteeism and weak supervision and almost non-existent pedagogical classroom
support further explained below.
Inadequate pedagogical support and weak management: The educational management in the proposed
project districts continues to be largely a conventional top-down supervisory approach with inadequate and
infrequent provisions for academic support to teachers, leaving little scope for effecting and sustaining
- 3 -



changes in classroom practice. Institutional support to address needs of teachers to improve their
pedagogical skills is also not adequately available. The District Institutes of Education and Training
(DIETs) are established in most districts, but are not fully functional because of lack of staff, inadequate
experience of staff in primary education and inadequate facilities. Community participation in school
management is expected with VECs in place, but many of these are not functioning effectively due to a low
level of awareness and absence of any feeling of ownership by their members to address their school-related
issues.
Government Strategy: GOUP has, in the context of the ongoing state reform, launched a series of major
state initiatives which have direct implications for the education sector. These include the transfer of
primary and upper primary schools to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) as a step towards
decentralization of management, in consonance with the 73rd constitutional amendment. While GOUP has
filled 27,000 vacant teacher posts to address the immediate teacher shortage, it has simultaneously frozen
any further appointments and has declared that the existing regular teachers' cadre will be reduced through
attrition. GOUP has further taken a decision to henceforth fill all new vacancies with para-teachers who
will be appointed locally on a contract basis at a much reduced level of honorarium. It has also carried out
an exercise of rationalized deployment of existing teachers for a more equitable distribution in terms of the
acceptable teacher-pupil ratio norm of 1:50. To address the social and educational backwardness in the
state, GOUP is implementing the following large-scale Bank-financed investments: (i) UPBEP, approved in
1993, designed to expand access to primary school (especially of socially disadvantaged groups), improve
student learning and enhance GOUP's capacity to manage elementary education in 17 educationally
disadvantaged districts; (ii) DPEP II, with similar objectives, approved in 1996 and covering 18 additional
disadvantaged districts in UP starting in 1997; and (iii) UPBEP II, approved in 1997, addressing the
upsurge of enrollment growths in the 17 UPBEP districts which has resulted in unacceptably large classes
and acute shortages of teachers and classrooms.
UPBEP I and II and DPEP II have supported the following innovations which are to be taken to scale with
the proposed operation: (i) working children-specific interventions in for example the districts of Firozabad
and Muradabad; (ii) a model cluster developiment approach to girls education integrating alternative
schooling (AS) packages, Mahila Samakhya (women empowerment) programs and gender sensitization
modules in teacher training and instructional materials, selectively expanding and strengthening early
childhood education facilities, conducting community mobilization and awareness campaigns; (iii) a holistic
pedagogical improvement plan that emphasizes visioning, exposure visits to other proven pedagogical
renewal models in the country, curriculum revision, teacher training module development, follow-up of
teacher training and continuous classroom pedagogical support, and development of improved instructional
material; (iv) innovative school construction designs; (v) dovetailing with other centrally sponsored
non-UPBEP/DPEP financial funds, especially with respect to civil works; and (vi) a State Institute of
Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT) providing effective support in the preparation of
AWPBs. In addition, the State Project Office (SPO) has effectively managed UPBEP I and II and DPEP II
above expectations. UP is the first state in [ndia that has already taken positive actions to institutionalize
all the pedagogical, managerial and organizational innovations developed under UPBEP in the state's
educational mainstream institutions at project completion (March 2000). GOUP has also undertaken a
fiscal reform that should technically and financially sustain these investments and results across the state
beyond project completion.
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) Strategies for expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary education especially of
socially disadvantaged groups comprise cost-saving and client-responsive supply-driven and
demand-generating interventions. Supply-driven interventions include the filling of existing teacher
vacancies (to be absorbed by the state's budget), redeployment of teachers and appointment of
para-teachers; construction and rehabilitation of schools and classrooms with convergence of funds and use
of cost-effective prototypes; introduction of double shifts and making a better use of available school
infrastructure; provision of client-specific alternative schooling (AS) options and interventions specifically
designed for different focus groups; selectively establishing and strengthening ECCE centers; and forging
functional linkages with the block and district health authorities to ensure regular quarterly health
check-ups of the school children. Demand-generating interventions include training, mobilizing and
strengthening community organizations, particularly VECs and village panchayats (VPs) and periodically
following up on their activities; carrying out awareness campaigns and enrollment drives; and identifying
and selecting AS instructors and providing them with teaching facilities.
(ii) Strategies to improve quality of classroom processes and to enhance learning achievement levels
include instituting a holistic pedagogical renewal scheme for comprehensive and continuous pedagogical
support and follow-up for teacher development through resource centers; providing in-service training and
school-based support to tearhers; developing and supplying improved instructional materials; providing
financial support to teachers for developing and procuring teaching and learning materials (TLM);
providing book banks; providing funds to VPs for school improvement; and developing instruments and
inproving procedures for the internal (by the teachers) and external (by the district and state authorities)
assessment of children's learning.
(iii) Strategies to improve, state, district and sub-district level capacity to manage primary education
would involve: strengthening the State Project Office (SPO); making a more effective use of the state's
existing 19 Divisional level offices for project monitoring purposes; establishing District Project Offices
(DPOs) in the existing office of the Basic Shiksha Adhikari (District educational authority) and
strengthening these with additional qualified staff and equipment; involving existing block level officials in
project implementation; strengthening and integrating existing state and district project-related institutional
capacity in the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), the State Institute of
Education (SIE), the State Institute of Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT), the State
Institute of Educational Technology (SIET) and the State Textbook Office (STO); strengthening the DIETs
or equivalent institutions in project districts; setting up state and district resource groups in project
districts; involving experienced and qualified NGOs in project design and implementation; setting up the
educational, project and financial management systems; building monitoring, research and evaluation
capacity at the state and district levels; and setting up an exit strategy at the outset of project
implementation to transfer all the pedagogical, managerial and organizational innovations developed under
the project to UP's non-project districts.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will have three components: (i) Expanding access to and increasing retention levels
in primary education especially for children from disadvantaged groups, (ii) Improving quality of
classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement levels in primary education; and (iii)
Improving state, district and sub-district capacity to manage primary education.
- 5 -



(i) Expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary education, especially for children
from disadvantaged groups. This project component includes the following activities to be financed
under the proposed credit: appointment of para-teachers in existing and new schools; construction and
rehabilitation of schools and classrooms and provision of toilets and water facilities; piloting and
introduction of double shift models; provision of AS facilities; provision of interventions specifically
designed to address the educational needs of children from socially disadvantaged groups (girls, SC and ST
children, working children and children with disabilities); carrying out of regular health check-ups of school
children; and mobilizing and strengthening community organizations, particularly VPs and VECs, and
carrying out awareness campaigns. In addition, this component includes the filling of existing teacher
vacancies (to be fully financed by the state's budget) and redeployment of teachers in project districts.
(ii) Improving quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement levels in primary
education. This project component includes the following activities to be financed under the proposed
credit: instituting a holistic pedagogical renewal approach for comprehensive and continuous teacher
development and follow-up professional support to teachers, para-teachers and AS instructors; developing
and supplying improved instructional materials and providing funds for teachers and para-teachers to
acquire and/or develop TLMs; providing book banks; and carrying out assessment of children's learning,
both internal, by teachers, and external, by the district and state authorities.
(iii) Improving state, district and sub-district level capacity to manage primary education This
component includes the following activities to be financed under the proposed credit: strengthening the
current SPO and the Divisional Offices; integrating and strengthening existing state and district resource
institutions in project implementation; strengthening capacity of district project management structures;
involving qualified non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in project implementation; and strengthening
state and district capacity for monitoring, research and evaluation and carrying out related activities.
1. Expanding access to and increasing                   80.10        37.3     67.10       36.8
retention levels in primary education.
2. Improving quality of classroom                        58.60       27.3      54.80       30.0
processes and enhancing learning
achievement levels.
3. Improving state, district and                         76.00       35.4      60.50       33.2
sub-district capacity to manage primary
education.
Total Project Costs  _                 214.70      100.0    182.40       100.0
Total Financing Required                    214.70       100.0    182.40       100.0
-6 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Fiscal Reform. The project has been designed and will be implemented within the framework of GOUP's
major fiscal and governance Bank-supported reforms to reduce its fiscal deficit and improve expenditures
towards investments and non-wage maintenance expenditure in infrastructure and human capital. On the
expenditure side, a virtual freeze has been placed on all new recruitment of regular teachers--the single
most important measure open to the government in the short term to control expenditures. In the education
sector, the regular teacher cadre is expected to be reduced through attrition. A more diversified menu of
community-based cost-effective educational options are being undertaken, particularly for communities
which are not being served effectively at present. Among options being considered are the para-teachers
(shiksha mitras), conceived on the basis of the proven cost-effective scheme of the Shiksha Karmi scheme
of Rajasthan; the Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS), which is a demand-based model patterned on the
scheme tried out in Madhya Pradesh; utilization of other existing AS options, for example, the Maqtabs for
Muslim communities; and double shifting. While supporting these initiatives, the project will require third
party evaluations in the course of project implementation to ensure equitable quality through these
alternative approaches (see G2(b) and Annex 2).
Decentralized educational planning and management. The project supports GOUP's policy to transfer
the planning and management of basic education to the Panchayti Raj Institutions (PRIs) - the locally
elected self-governing bodies at the district and sub-district levels - through statutorily reconstituted VECs
in consonance with the 73rd Constitutional amendment. The VECs will have representation from SC and
ST population, women, Mahila Samakhya (MS) members, as well as parents of disabled children, and will
be chaired by the Deputy Village Pradhan. A decision to transfer corresponding staff to the local bodies to
carry out the required functions has also been taken by GOUP. State resources for the payment of
para-teachers and AS instructors, the construction and maintenance of schools and classrooms and the
provision of reading and teaching materials have been transferred to the Zila Panchayat (at the district
level) and from there to the PRIs, of which the VEC is a sub-committee. These funds will be placed under
the joint account of the Chairman of the PRI and the member secretary. The state budget would continue
to support the salaries of the transferred staff including authorized annual salary increases and promotions.
UPBEP I and II and DPEP II have already provided some positive experience of decentralized school
management through the involvement of VECs in school construction.
Filling of existing teacher vacancies, rational redeployment of teachers and employment of
para-teachers. Due to an upsurge in enrollments, improved rates of retention resulting from the project
interventions in the recent past and increased community demand for primary education in the state,
available school places have become further crowded and student teacher ratios adversely affected. In this
context and consistent with its commitment to fiscal reform, the project supports GOUP's recent policy of
addressing the issue of teacher shortage and the high teacher-pupil ratio through the filling of existing
vacancies of 27,000 regular teachers, putting a freeze on new teacher appointments and using para-teachers
instead, and carrying out teacher redeployment from schools showing a teacher surplus to schools with a
teacher deficit. This policy aims to achieve a more equitable and rationalized basis to ensure a
teacher-pupil ratio within the norm of 1:50 across UP.
-7- 



3. Benefits and target population:
Direct beneficiaries. The proposed project would target an additional 10.8 million children aged 6-10
years in the 42 project districts of which approximately 5.4 million children are still out of school,
including 3.3 million girls, 1.3 million SC students, along with ST children, working children and children
with disabilities. The project will create about 1.5 million new children places by the construction of
approximately 12,300 additional classrooms, 6,050 new and reconstructed schools and the repair of about
9,000 dilapidated schools. An additional 1'30,000 out-of school children will benefit through the setting up
of about 6,519 AS and EGS centers in unserved habitations. The project will provide improved facilities in
schools to all enrolled children through the construction of 15,589 toilets and the installation of 5,770 water
pumps in an equal number of primary schools. The project would also benefit about 75,300 children in the
3-6 years age group through the establishment of 1,859 ECCE centers. The project is going to create
widespread income and employment opportunities in the education and construction sectors of the project
districts through appointment of para-teachers, AS and EGS instructors and engineers. The village
community will benefit from its role in school management and its exposure to and engagement with
low-cost construction technology.
Indirect beneficiaries. Investment in primary education has economic and social benefits which are well
documented (Primary Education in India, WForld Bank, 1998). Economic returns to education are highest
for primary schooling and tend to decline with rising levels of education. Primary education, particularly of
women, leads to better family health, lower fertility and thus slower population growth. In addition,
education has a positive impact on women's utilization of schemes for raising family incomes. More
intangible future social benefits of the project include the empowerment of future generations of women and
the possibilities for more informed participat:ion (see El and Annex 4).
System as a beneficiary. The levels of internal efficiency of the system are low in UP. Previous Bank
analysis has demonstrated that in view of the high drop-out and repetition rates the education system
requires the resources for 7.8 years of schooling to produce one graduate of the five year cycle (56 percent
more). With improvement in quality expected from the interventions in the project and corresponding
improvements in retention levels, system efficiency is expected to improve in terms of reducing unit and
total costs.
-8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented within the framework of the DPEP Guidelines (official document defning
the operation of DPEP adopted by GOI in April 1993, as amended from time to time) and the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). General oversight and coordination of project implementation would be
provided by the DPEP Bureau at the Department of Education (DOE) of the Ministry of Human Resource
Development of the Government of India (GOI). The DPEP Bureau was established in 1993 to coordinate
this centrally sponsored scheme. Actual implementation of the proposed project would be delegated to the
Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Lye Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad - (State Implementation Society - SIS) through
its State Project Office (SPO) headed by the State Project Director. The SIS, headquartered in Lucknow,
UP, was established under the Borrower's Societies Registration Act, 1860 as applied to UP. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that a condition for Credit effectiveness will be that the SIS has
entered a Memnorandum of Understanding (MOU) with GOI satisfactory to the Bank. The SIS has had
ample experience in effectively managing three other Bank-financed elementary education projects in UP as
recorded by the bi-annual Bank's supervision reports since 1994. Project implementation monitoring would
be carried out through the existing 19 divisional offices of the Assistant Director of Education covering 3 to
4 districts each. At the district level, a District Education Project Committee, under the chairmanship of
the District Magistrate, will provide overall guidance, but the immediate day-to-day coordination of
program activities will be managed by the District Project Office (DPO) which will be headed by the
existing District Basic Education Officer (Basic Shiksha Adhikari).
It is expected that project implementation would be through incremental expansion of the state and district
components and subcomponents. It is also expected that the yearly release of funding to the SIS by the
GOI would be based on the review and approval by the DPEP Bureau of the State and District AWPBs.
The review criteria to assess AWPBs for the subsequent year against progress and supervision reports
prepared by the DPEP Bureau and program donors comprise: (i) good project implementation performance
at the state, district and sub-district levels, including the rate of utilization of previously released funds; (ii)
state compliance with the annual payment of the 15 percent contribution to the ongoing UPDPEP III
program; and (iii) evidence of state compliance with the additionality of UPDPEP III investments in
elementary education in real terms compared to the 1997/98 state elementary education expenditure levels.
The first year of UPDPEP III implementation would be probably focused on developmental activities,
including: (a) strengthening existing management capacity in the SPO, building monitoring capacity in the
19 Divisional Project Offices and management capacity in all DPOs; (b) strengthening state and district
resource institutions and/or groups; (c) establishing the basic professional capacity and providing the
physical infrastructure for improved learning in participating districts, in particular BRCs and NPRCs; and
(d) starting the VECs training in community mobilization, awareness campaigns and microplanning. The
PIP (in the project files), reviewed and accepted by the Bank during the appraisal mission, will provide the
general operational features of the proposed project.
As part of project preparation, the investment proposals and the first year state and district AWPBs of 13
sample project districts were pre-appraised by the DPEP Bureau and a Bank Mission. Every participating
district was required to prepare a district-specific baseline learning assessment study following terms of
reference agreed with the Bank during the identification mission (Annex 2). In addition, five districts
selected to represent the demographic and social diversity of the state prepared district-specific social
assessment studies following terms of reference agreed with the Bank during the identification mission
(Annex 2). Also, the state updated the comprehensive education finance study prepared as part of
preparations for UPBEP II in two ways. First, the information on expenditures provided in the study was
brought up-to-date. Second, a detailed analysis was made of the recurrent liabilities emerging from all
Bank-supported primary education projects at completion, including this one. The state also provided
-9-



preliminary analyses of the unit cost implications of introducing cost-effective interventions in the proposed
project. Finally, the Bank mission carried out a cost simulation for the universalization of primary
education in UP (see Annex 4).
Progress towards the achievement of UPDPEP III development objectives would be measured against the
indicators agreed at appraisal through the following seven independent sources: (i) learning assessment
surveys to be conducted in the third and last year of project implementation; (ii) specific-program
evaluation and research studies; (iii) the cormiputerized project and education management information
systems (PMIS and EMIS) as operational in all previous DPEP Credits; (iv) the Project Financial
Management Reporting System (PFMS) to be developed under the Loan Administrative Change Initiative
(LACI) scheme; (v) the bi-annual joint review missions; and (vi) two in-depth reviews of the project to be
conducted by GOI and GOUP by December 31, 2003 and March 31, 2005.
Accounts and Project Financial Management System (PFMS). Accounts and financial management
arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6. A Chief Financial Officer for UPDPEP III has been
appointed at the SPO and key accounting functionaries, to be appointed at the time of Credit signing, have
been identified and selected. Key actions that need to be completed are the design, development and
implementation of an integrated computerized PFMS. This will include procurement of necessary
hardware, development of software, and training of staff in PFMS. At negotiations the following
time-bound action plan was agreed: (i) the PFMS software will be completed by August 31, 2000; (ii) the
PFMS will be fully operational by December 31, 2000; (iii) the first set of Project Management Reports for
the quarter January-March 2001 will be submitted to the Bank by May 15, 2001 with the exception of the
following two. "Sources and Uses of Funds " and "Progress report on Procurement on Works/Goods and
Consultancies for Contracts Valued at US$:100, 000 andAbove" which will be made available at the end
of the first quarter of project implementation.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Credit, as further explained in Annex 6, would initially be made
in the traditional system (reimbursement withi full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and
would be converted to the LACI procedures. based on Project Management Reports (PMRs) after the
successful implementation of the computerized PFMS.
Special Account. See Annex 6.
Retroactive Financing. See Annex 6.
Procurement. Procurement arrangements according to Bank's Procurement Guidelines are detailed in
Annex 6.
Implementation period. The expected implementation period would be April 1, 2000 to March 31, 2005.
The proposed Credit is expected to close by September 30, 2005.
- 10-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Implementing the proposed project in a smaller number of socially disadvantaged districts was ruled
out because: (i) the SIS has acquired a proven management capability in the implementation of three other
lower primary education Bank-fnanced Credits in the state and it was felt that it has the comparative
advantage to effectively absorb the extra managerial load through a client-responsive menu of service
delivery options and GOUP's leadership commitment; (ii) UP, one of the poorest and the largest states in
the Union, could be, along with Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, among the first states in the Hindi
belt to claim in the near future to have established the educational human, organizational, managerial and
physical capacity to ensure universal primary education (UPE) to all 6 to 10 year old children in the state
(Kerala is likely to be the first state in the Union to claim UPE); and (iii) by taking UPBEP and DPEP to
scale, facilitates the institutionalization of all the pedagogical, managerial and organizational innovations
developed under these projects in the mainstream educational institutions of the state at project completion.
At the request of the identification mission, the SPO has been further strengthened by GOUJP with an
Additional State Project Director, one Chief Finance and Accounts officer and some professional and
administrative staff. When UPBEP I and II are completed by March 2000, the 17 DPOs will be closed,
their management activities will be carried on by the mainstream district institutions, and key senior project
personnel in position under UPBEP will be thus diverted to UPDPEP III.
(b) Serving the expected increased enrollment in project districts exclusively with regular teachers
deployed to newly created sanctioned posts, and operating all new schools in a single shift modality was
ruled out given GOUP's fiscal situation. Accordingly, the Bank supported GOUP's decision to deploy a
combination of para-teachers and regular teachers in project districts using the successful and already
evaluated Shiksha Karmi Project model of Rajasthan to meet the demand of increased enrollments in a
cost-effective fashion. The Bank agreed on the appointment of para-teachers, double shifting and adoption
of a menu of cost saving demand-based alternative schooling measures such as the Education Guarantee
Scheme (EGS) adapted from the Madhya Pradesh model, provided appropriate levels of quality are ensured
while implementing these interventions and a third party evaluation be conducted by mid-course of project
implementation.
(c) The pedagogical renewal model developed and implemented under the UPBEP since 1994 was not
adopted in its entirety but revised to ensure a more comprehensive strategy for improving the quality and
impact of the teaching-learning process in the classroom, as has been attempted under DPEP II since 1998.
This approach includes: (i) visioning workshops; (ii) conceptual framework workshops; (iii) exposure visits
to other successful experiences; (iv) school placement; (v) holistic approach to curriculum revision,
improved textbook development and design of in-service teacher training modules and materials; (v)
trialling; and (vi) monitoring through periodic visits to schools, evaluation and fine tuning of the entire
process.
(d) The school construction models developed and implemented under the UPBEP since 1994 were ruled
out because they were not considered cost-effective for such a large-scale operation. Instead, the Bank
supported the use of new models out of seven possible innovative construction prototypes developed
through the innovation fund available in DPEP II, which are currently under review.
(e) The state-sponsored scheme utilized for UPBEP I and II was ruled out in favor of a DPEP centrally
sponsored scheme because: (i) it reduces the cost share for the state (central transfers are provided to the
states in the form of grants); (ii) the DPEP Bureau provides an effective technical clearinghouse service to
the state and participating districts by ensuring cross-communication among all DPEP states and districts
with respect to specific state and district thematic themes; and (iii) the participating UP districts will benefit
- 11 -



from the rich five-year DPEP learning experience and technical support provided by the DPEP Bureau
from preparation through implementation.
(f) It was decided to further strengthen the integrated project management approach, especially from the
state level down, by involving existing administrative and academic structures in the state at all levels at the
start of project implementation. This decision was taken as an effective exit strategy for the project in
terms of ensuring sustainability of project interventions and gains after project completion. Secondly, this
was found necessary in view of the recent GOUP ordinance of transferring the Basic Education department
to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) which necessitated involvement particularly of the sub-district
level administrative structures. Thirdly, given the large geographical scope of the project, it became
necessary to decentralize the project management through involvement of and coordination with the
divisional, district and sub-district level adrninistrative and academic structures.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Lates  uevso
\f Setor ;;f 0            XI     0 0  Slssue 0  j0  0  :0;0X            :00000X:;Projt  (PSR) f;$f00t900000:j0 00; 0 1 atings0 : 0 0
__  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _    ______  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    :      Lj::i;vE0i;2i;L(Bank-finance    ;projects  only)u
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Ongoing Projects
Lower and Upper Primary Education   Uttar Pradesh Basic Education      S             S
Project (UPBEP)
Lower Primary Education             UPBEP II                           S             S
Lower Primary Education             First District Primary             S             S
Education Project (DPEP I)
Lower Primary Education             DPEP II (co-financed by the        S             S
Dutch Government)
Lower Primary Education             DPEP III (co-financed by           S              S
UNICEF)
Lower Primary Education             Education Component of the
Andhra Pradesh Economic
Restructuring Project
Lower Primary Education             Rajasthan DPEP I (to be
supervised for the first time in
November 1999)
Other development agencies
District Primary Education
Project in Andhra Pradesh and
West Bengal (financed by the
Department for International
Development (DfID), U.K.)
District Primary Education
Prcject in Madhya Pradesh
(financed by the European
Commission)
- 12 -



Lok Jumbish/Rajasthan
Education Project (financed by
the Swedish International
Development Agency - SIDA)
Mahila Samakhya Project,
addresses the lack of women
empowerment (financed by the
Government of the Netherlands)
Shiksha Karmi Project in
Rajasthan
Education Guarantee Scheme of
Madhya Pradesh
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The supply- and demand-driven UPBEP and DPEP II interventions to increase enrollment in UP are
showing a positive impact, especially among the socially disadvantaged groups of children. There is now
evidence in UP that overall primary school enrollment in UPBEP districts in the period 91/92 to 97/98 has
increased 32 percent as compared to 22 percent in non-UPBEP districts. The increase in enrollment of
girls in UPBEP districts in lower and upper primary has been significantly larger than for boys (74 as
compared with 48.6 percent and 45.4 as compared with 37.7 percent, respectively). The index of Gender
Equity (100 times the share of girls enrolled divided by the share of girls in the corresponding population)
in various grades has improved in all districts. Gender equity has been achieved in 37 out of the 42
districts. The increase in enrollment has necessitated a larger number of additional classrooms, additional
teachers and other infrastructure in the UPBEP districts and, based on this experience, this impact is
anticipated and provided for in UPDPEP III as well.
The pre-appraisal mission visited in the field some of the seven innovative cost-effective construction
prototypes deemed more appropriate for UP that were developed through the innovation fund available in
DPEP II by the SPO. These prototypes are currently under review and those that will be approved will be
taken to scale in UPDPEP II districts and proposed for use in UPDPEP III.
To a lesser degree, some of the DPEP strategies aimed at improving learning achievement such as
improved instructional materials, appropriate curriculum changes, and to a certain point, more days of
training, are also showing some modest improvement (yet, far from expectations). Findings of the second
learning assessment survey in UPBEP indicate that composite mean scores in language in UPBEP districts
improved from 34 in 1994 to 37 percent in 1997, and the mean achievement levels in mathematics in BEP
districts were higher than in control districts. In addition, the mid-term baseline assessment study in 42
districts in DPEP I reports an increase in student learning achievement in both mathematics and language
especially from class I to class II and less so in class III and IV. Differences in achievement between boys
and girls in class I has been reduced to less than 5 percent in most DPEP districts. Differences in
achievement between SC/ST and other students and between rural and urban students still remain in many
districts. These findings are not conclusive and more specific research on learning assessment and
classroom observation studies are needed.
The in-service teacher training model designed and implemented under UPBEP and its evaluation helped to
develop a holistic pedagogical renewal approach which is now being implemented under DPEP II in UP
districts and is being considered also for UPDPEP III (see Annex 2). This model was reviewed during the
- 13 -



Bank's pre-appraisal mission.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Consistent with the 1992 Revised National Policy on Education and its corresponding National Program of
Action, the GOI, in close consultation with the states, established the DPEP in 1993 as a centrally
sponsored program of financial and technical assistance to the states and districts for primary education
reform. Under the umbrella of the DPEP, GOI has worked closely with the 15 DPEP Project States over
the last five years in preparing and implemnenting over US$1.3 billion worth of educational investments in
about 185 socially disadvantaged districts in these 15 states. There has been widespread participation of
research institutions, officials, communities and qualified NGOs (close to 50 in the UP along) in the project
design and implementation processes of these investments. According to the latest Bank supervision
reports, these investments are meeting their qualitative aims to a large extent and have been rated
"satisfactory" (see D.2 and D.3). In addition, GOI has expressed its commitment to increase education
spending from the current 3.7 percent of GDP to 6 percent by the end of the Ninth Plan (2002). Spending
on higher education has been tightly curbed in recent years to less than 13 percent of total public education
expenditure in India.
GOUP's implementation support for UPBEP I and II and DPEP II has also clearly shown its commitment
to the projects' objectives. GOUP has not only regularly provided its share of expenditure, but also
prefmanced the GOI share when necessary, and successfully implemented the projects. In addition, GOUP
has increased its allocation to general education (from Rs. 21,440 million in 1991-92 to Rs. 33,360 million
in 1995-96, showing an increase of 64.2 percent) and within the education sector to elementary education
(from Rs. 11,980 million in 1991-92 to Rs. 18,940 million in 1995-96, showing an increase of 63.2 percent
in that period). The share of the elementary education in the general education budget in 1995-96 was 56.8
percent. While agreeing to tackle its fiscal situation, GOUP has given priority to the issue of teacher
shortage by filling 27,000 existing teacher vaLcancies, has carried out a large-scale appointment of
para-teachers on contract basis at a lower sa[lary scale, and has institutionalized the EGS scheme across the
state. As part of its policy of decentralization, GOUP has delegated specific powers to the VECs which are
now statutorily a sub-commitee of the Village PRIs and made financial provisions to the VPs for school
construction and maintenance, as well as for the provision of teaching-learning material which is a strong
indication of its concern for effective management of schools and improvement in the quality of primary
education.
- 14 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's experience with the implementation of large-scale programs of education reform and the design
of external assistance strategies to these programs has resulted in it becoming one of the most important
sources of technical support and external funding in India's progress towards universal primary education.
This technical and financial support has served as a catalyst to raise primary education as a priority at the
national level and mobilized a range of national and state level non-project initiatives. In addition, the Bank
has been instrumental in mobilizing financial and technical support from other donors in the sector
(European Commission, DfiD, Dutch Government and UNICEF). The Bank has provided a lead role in
designing and operationalizing joint supervision mechanisms whereby a group of educational and
management professional nominated by the donors supporting DPEP and GOI review implementation
progress twice a year (in March and October). The Bank provides education specialists and managers
from participating DPEP States and GOI with a much appreciated exposure to the educational innovations
of other developing countries which are relevant to the Indian context. The Bank plays a key role in
providing continued technical and financial support which are essential for ensuring that the potential
benefits of the past educational investments come to fruition. The Bank-financed UPBEP I was the
prototype for strategies for large-scale implementation of educational change, several of which have been
adopted with appropriate modifications in the DPEP. The proposed project will provide the opportunity for
a continuation of the Bank's international experience in this sector and assist GOUP bring about universal
primary education in the project districts with special attention to the needs of girls and other socially
disadvantaged groups.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV-US$ million; ERR = %
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Education and poverty reduction. The close association of poverty and low levels of schooling in India
has been extensively documented in recent Bank reports, including Achievements and Challenges in
Reducing Poverty (1997) and Reducing Poverty in India (1998). Similarly, the strong role played by
literacy and schooling in explaining differences in rates of economic growth between states over the past
four decades has been demonstrated empirically. In addition, a number of analyses ranging across
calculations of conventional rates of returns, decomposition of the sources of economic growth and
investigations of farmer productivity, summarized in Primary Education in India (1997), have taken
different approaches to determining the economic impact of education but consistently indicate the positive
effects of primary schooling on individuals' income. The effect on several other indicators of individuals'
and families' welfare, for instance child health, has also been comprehensively documented in the National
Family Health Survey.
Uttar Pradesh has the fourth highest incidence of poverty across Indian states (42 percent of the population
below the poverty line) and low levels of educational coverage. According to the most recent National
Sample Survey, in 1995/96 only 28 percent of the total population aged over 15 years and 17 percent of
rural females had completed primary schooling. The expansion of the education system over recent
decades has increased the levels of access but, again in 1995/96, 39 percent of all 6-10 year olds were not
in school and the gross attendance rate in primary schooling was the fourth lowest across states at 80
percent. About 51 percent of 6-10 year-old rural girls were not in school. These figures are averages and
for the poorest households, the situation is much worse. Of the poorest fifth of the population, three
quarters of those aged 15 years and over had not completed a primary schooling compared to 54 percent of
- 15 -



the wealthiest. Analysis of data from the National Family Health Survey 1992/93 indicate that in Uttar
Pradesh the probability of a child from the poorest 40 percent of households completing a primary
schooling was 40 percent compared to 92 percent for those from the wealthiest fifth of households. Female
children in poor households have an even lower chance of completing primary schooling. The benefits of
expanding and improving publicly provided primary schooling in UP will largely accrue to children in the
lowest income groups.
The demand for schooling and private expenditure. Evidence of a demand for primary education in UP
comes from two sources. First, the UPBEP II was implemented in 1997 as a direct response to the very
high levels of new enrollments in project areas resulting from irnplementation of UPBEP I which was
providing schools, teachers and a perceived higher quality of schooling. Over the previous four years,
enrollments had risen by 32 percent in project districts compared to 22 percent in other districts. Second, a
high demand for effective schooling is evidenced by the large number of households who are prepared to
pay fees for schooling in private schools. In 1995/96, 25 percent of all primary school pupils in UP were
in recognized private unaided schools and a -.further 10 percent were enrolled in unrecognized schools.
However, detailed surveys of two districts in the state have demonstrated that less than 10 percent of the
children in these schools are from SC households which tend to be the poorest among the population, and
which constitute 21 percent of all households. These two pieces of evidence suggest that there is demand
for quality schooling in UP but that the option of private fee-paying schooling is not available to the poor.
Increasing the quality of public primary schcoling, as well as the supply of building and teachers, is
particularly important for the poor who have no alternatives unlike children of wealthier households who
can choose private schooling.
The small number of poor children in private schools does not imply that schooling in governrment schools
has no costs. Overall, the cost to the household of a child's primary schooling in UP averages Rs. 507 a
year, which is a little higher than the national average. While expenditures have not been disaggregated by
type of school at the state level, across the country the household costs of attending a government school
are Rs. 257 a year and a local body school Rs. 338. Expenditures on each child in school made by the
poorest 40 percent of households average Rs. 250 a year. The main items of expenditure are books and
stationary. While across the country, 26 percent of students receive free textbooks, in UP the share is only
6 percent. Household expenditures need to be compared to a unit cost borne by government of around Rs.
1,400 a year. The cost of accessing government schooling is shared by government and households. By
providing books for poor girls, and developing book banks, the project will reduce the costs of schooling
for the poor and increase the perceived net benefits.
Cost effectiveness. The current system of primary schooling in UP is very inefficient in terms of the
resources required to produce one graduating child. Data from the EMIS in the DPEP II districts indicate
that around 25 percent of children are over age, which at least partly results from the practice of class
repetition, and the drop-out rate is estimated to be 35 percent. A basic student flow calculation suggests
that 7.8 years of teaching need to be provided to result in the graduation of one pupil from the five year
cycle. Given the very large costs of universalizing primary schooling for all 6-10 year olds in UP (Annex
4), it is important that the 25 percent of pupil places currently being filled by 11 year olds and over be
reduced. The emphasis in the project on reducing both repetition and drop-out levels and improving the
quality of schooling can be anticipated to increase system efficiency significantly.
In addition to improving levels of internal efficiency, the project will support two major interventions - the
employment of para-teachers and the introduction of double shifting - both aimed at reducing the unit costs
of primary schooling. While the rationale for introducing a scheme of para-teachers identified, selected and
hired by the local communities is partly educational in that they will be more accountable and perhaps more
- 16 -



enthusiastic than regular teachers for classes 1 and 2, there is also a significant financial dimension. The
annual emolument will be equal to around one quarter of the salary of the regular teacher. The aggregate
impact is very large. The annual salary liabilities to the state of the almost 28,000 teachers employed
under the UPBEP projects will eventually be Rs. 184 crores compared to the Rs. 35 crores liability arising
from the 17,000 teachers to be employed under the proposed project. After teacher salaries, the largest
financial input into primary schooling is the cost of buildings. Double shift systems of teaching can allow a
more intensive use of available underutilized physical infrastructure. The government is actively
considering experimenting with four models which after piloting could be introduced in densely populated
areas of the state.
The effect of employing a different cadre of teachers on lower salaries, in addition to the many
interventions in the project which will increase expenditures on non-salary items, will result in a change in
the financial structure of the input mix. Educational production functions developed both in India and
elsewhere strongly suggest that the increases in learning resulting from marginal increases in resources into
the classroom are greater when those resources are used to fund more materials than when they are used to
increase teacher salaries. Detailed analyses of the different compositions of expenditures in DPEP and
non-DPEP districts are currently being sponsored by the DPEP Bureau.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Fiscal Impact:
The proposed project will be the fourth primary education project supported by the Bank beginning with
the UPBEP I in 1993. Two of the projects, UPBEP I and II, will end in March 2000 and another, DPEP II,
in 2002. The proposed project is expected to end in March 2005. Each project has two budgetary
implications for the state - the government's contributions while it is being implemented, and the financing
of recurrent liabilities once it is completed. For all the DPEP projects, the state government funds 15
percent of project cost overall but the share varies by year as the proportion of recurrent costs financed by
the Bank declines. In the final year of these projects, the state typically funds 75 percent of recurrent costs.
UPBEP I and II are outside of the DPEP centrally-sponsored framework and the state government is
responsible for 13 percent and 21 percent of total costs, respectively. The share of recurrent costs funded
by government in the final year of these two projects is 60 percent and 75 percent. Following project
completion, the annual incremental liabilities of the two UPBEP projects combined have been estimated at
Rs. 217 crores, those of DPEP II (including four additional districts which will be funded by DPEP II until
2002 and then be part of the proposed project) at Rs. 79 crores and those of the proposed project, at Rs.
110 crores.
For each year from 2000 to 2006, the GOUP's incremental financial liabilities will be an aggregation of the
contributions to ongoing projects and the liabilities from completed ones. From these totals, the "savings"
that will occur through the replacement of retiring teachers by para-teachers earning around one fourth of
the salaries of regular teachers can be subtracted. The results suggest that the main point of stress will
occur in the year following the termination of UPBEP I and II in 2000/01 when the full cost of around
28,000 teachers will become the sole responsibility of the state. In the current financial year, the state
government is financing around one third of the total salary bill and in the following year will finance
around one half. The liabilities resulting from completion of DPEP II in 2002 will be significantly lower as
a result of the relatively large share of para-teachers.
These net liabilities were compared to anticipated increments in GOUP's budgetary allocation to elementary
- 17 -



education, assuming that the sub sector receives a constant share of state GDP during the period as has
been the case since 1991 and that the real emoluments of existing teachers continue to increase at their
historical rate of two percent a year. The growth of the gross state domestic product (GSDP), and hence
the allocations to elementary education, was projected under two scenarios of the state's public finances
which have been modeled by Bank staff (see Annex 4). In the first of these, where there are no fiscal
reforms, the growth rate of GDP declines from 3.3 percent in 1998/99 to 2.4 percent in 2004/5. In the
second, with reform, the growth rate increases to 4.5 percent by 2004/5. The projections of the GSDP
suggest that under the no-reform scenario, allocations to elementary education between 2000 and 2005
would not be sufficient during the years of project implementation (by Rs. 80-100 crores a year in the first
half of the period and by Rs. 25-3 5 crores a year in the second half) and would need to increase slightly as
a share of GSDP in order to fund the liabilities of the education projects. In the reform scenario, there
would be a deficiency only for one year (of around Rs. 60 crores) and from then on additional resources
would become available to finance part of the investments which will be required if the state is to move
more rapidly towards universalizing primary education (see Annex 4 for estimates of the total cost of
universalization and the implications under each of the public finance scenarios). Even under the reform
scenario, however, an increase in the share of GSDP for elementary education from its current 2.3 percent
to around 3.0 percent would be required for universalization.
The estimates of the several education projects' liabilities through the period in which the proposed new
project will be implemented assume that all teachers to be employed under the proposed project, plus those
employed in the future under existing projects, will be para-teachers. Employment of regular teachers who
receive salaries around four times the size of the para-teachers payments would increase the liabilities
significantly.
3. Technical:
Employment of para-teachers. The scheme of employment of para-teachers instead of regular teachers
in different Indian states has raised concerns about lowering of qualifications and absence of substantive
professional training which may impact on the quality of teaching imparted by these teachers. However,
UPDPEP III has addressed these concerns by: (i) requiring para-teachers to have secondary level
qualifications; (ii) providing them with an induction training of 30 days' duration followed by a 15 days'
refresher every year, (iii) providing continuous classroom follow-up; (iv) considering a career
scheme/ladder for para-teachers to ensure adequate motivation for them to continue and deliver
good-quality educational services; and (v) requiring a mid-project third party evaluation of the
para-teachers scheme.
Alternative schooling. One concern of offering an array of client-responsive AS options through
less-qualified and less-trained AS instructors under teaching-learning conditions that may also not be of the
same level as in regular schools, is to ensure an equitable level of quality of schooling as compared to the
formal schools. A second concern is to ensure that children attending AS options get mainstreamed into
regular schools. A third concern would be to ensure that the project interventions are appropriately
targeting the unserved and disadvantaged areas. Provisions have been made in the project for: (i) the
adoption of appropriate criteria for the identification and selection of AS instructors; (ii) the offering of
adequate and frequent training; (iii) the development of effective teaching and learning materials; (iv) the
carrying out of continuous pedagogical follovv-up; (v) the development of teachers' capacity to assess
progress in children's learning; and (vi) the involvement of the community to closely monitor teacher and
student attendance. The project also provides for a mid-project third party evaluation to monitor quality in
implementation of AS modalities.
Change in classroom processes. The emergiag concern refers to the effectiveness of the project's
- 18 -



interventions to transform and sustain classroom practices in primary schools, especially multi-grade
situations, from a teacher-centered to a more child-centered pedagogy wherein the teacher remains not a
director but a facilitator for children's learning thus bringing about improvement in the quality of both
teaching and learning. The holistic pedagogical renewal design that has evolved under UPBEP and
fine-tuned under DPEPII is proposed to be adopted and further improved in this project with additional
focus on multi-grade teaching. Sustained change in the classrooms is possible only if the approach is able
to provide a whole school focus and is able to activate and enable the BRC and NPRC level support
structures to provide consistent academic support instead of exercising administrative control. The project
needs to also work towards ensuring that the VEC develop a sense of ownership and adopt a positive and
supportive role towards school improvement. The UPBEP Sustainability Study recently conducted has
made some suggestions in this regard which the SPO and GOUP are considering. The challenge lies in
being able to take and sustain these experiences to an additional 42 districts under UPDPEPIII.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad (SIS) was established on May 17, 1993
under the Societies Registration Act to function as a societal mission for bringing about a fundamental
change in the basic education system. The SIS has a General Council, with the Chief Minister as its
Chairman and the Minister of Education as the Vice-chairman, with a membership of about 90 senior
officials and distinguished individuals. The Council is the apex authority of the project and provides
overall policy guidelines and direction for project implementation. The State Project Director is the
Member Secretary of the Council and of the Executive Committee of the SIS which has all administrative,
financial and executive authority to take decisions regarding the project. The SPO is responsible for the
day-to-day management, administration, implementation and monitoring of the project. It has at present the
responsibility of implementation of UPBEP I and II and DPEP II. While UPBEP I and II will come to
closure in March 2000, the SPO will continue managing UPDPEP III.
b. Project management:
The first concern relates to the capacity of the SPO to manage the proposed UPDPEP III in conjunction
with the ongoing UPBEP I and II and DPEP II projects, particularly in view of the wide geographical
dimensions of the new project. While there is ample evidence that accumulated project management
capacity of the SPO has been built through the implementation of the UPBEP and DPEP since 1993, and
that GOUP has recently strengthened the SPO with additional senior posts, its project monitoring capacity
will need to be further augmented. The project therefore provides for some strengthening of the existing 19
Divisional offices headed by the Assistant Directors of Education for project monitoring purposes and of
the District Education Offices for project management at the district level.
A second concern relates to the need to address the issue of sustainability of project interventions right from
inception of the project and provide within the project for necessary capacity building of mainstream
institutions and administrative structures, with a view to ensure systemic reform and continuity and
ultimate take-over of responsibilities. There is a need to transfer the vast SPO project management
learning and capacity building experience to the divisional, district and sub-district level institutions. The
project is addressing this concern through its decision to involve the system's existing administrative
authorities at all levels in project implementation and provide for their required interface with the project
structures right from the start of the project. This measure is attuned to the reconmmendations of the
UPBEP Sustainability Study and the Draft Transition Plan commissioned by the SPO, in the process of
being adopted by GOUP. The existing pattern of frequent transfers of project personnel at all levels is a
matter of concern which the GOUP needs to address in the interest of preserving the accumulated
knowledge and experience at all levels to ensure continuity in the knowledge transfer process during project
- 19 -



implementation.
A third concern refers to the existing capacity and capability of state-level institutions (SIEMAT, SCERT,
SIET and STO) to provide the required teclnical support in the context of the overall pedagogical and
management reform being pursued by the project. The project has taken cognizance of this concern by
requiring these institutions to formulate a time-bound institutional development plan and by financing the
improvement of SIEMAT's training facilities. During appraisal agreement was reached that the
institutional development plans for SCERT and SIEMAT will be formulated by December 31, 2000.
A fourth, and major concern, relates to the IDIETs. These district institutions are critical for enhancing the
quality of primary education. DIETs continue to be the weakest link in the pedagogical renewal effort
undertaken by the UPBEP and DPEP II projects. Some capacity has been built in the course of these
projects, but the quality of services provided by the DIETs leave much to be desired. The staffing of
DIETs continues to be an issue, both in terms of unfilled vacancies and the placement of faculty in the
DIETS who lack any experience or exposure to primary education. GOUP has given assurance of staffing
DIETs within six months of project launching, has made some provision for the appointment of
experienced primary school teachers in the I)IETs, and has agreed to have their institutional development
plans formulated by December 31, 2000. The project also provides for capacity-building interventions and
training of DIET faculty and a clearer definition of its role in project implementation, providing academic
leadership and professional support to the BRCs and NPRCs at the sub-district level.
A fifth concern refers to the BRC and NPRC which are envisaged as academic structures at the block and
cluster levels for providing on-site support to teachers. The current view is that these levels tend to take on
more administrative rather than academic roles as experienced in UPBEP, and are utilized more for
compilation of school statistics, monitoring civil works and distribution of incentive data, which is more the
function originally assigned to the Block Education Office. The project attempts to address this concern
through involving the Assistant Basic Education Officer (ABSA) in the implementation of UPDPEP III by
co-opting them as Block Project Officers and providing them some basic facilities under the project. This
envisaged strategy would allow BRCs and NPRCs to focus more on project-related academic
responsibilities.
The last concern relates to the degree of participation of all members of the VEC and the extent to which
they will discharge their assigned responsibilities in school management. While the project provides for
additional training of VEC members, there will also be continuous monitoring of the VEC's management of
schools and a mid-project third party evaluation.
- 20 -



5. Social:
A major objective of the proposed project is the reduction of disparities in access, retention and learning
achievement across different gender and social groups. For a more specific understanding of the special
focus groups in the project districts, Social Assessment Studies (SASs) were carried out on a representative
basis in five project districts with the sample drawn from 10 villages from two blocks of each district. The
methodology involved semi-structured interview schedules, focus group discussions and classroom
observations (Annex 2A). The group composition for the focused group discussions included teachers,
local elites, mothers and fathers of enrolled, non-enrolled and drop-out children and girls. The SASs results
have served the dual purpose of: (i) highlighting the general and specific issues affecting the education of
the socially disadvantaged groups of children; and (ii) orienting the community in the basic requirements of
planning for the educational development of the village. The findings of the SASs will form the basis for
designing and piloting district-tailored strategies to address these issues, especially during the first two
years of project implementation. The studies have highlighted problems related to access and distance of
school, facilities in school, teacher-related problems, family-related problems and different socio-cultural
perceptions and their impact on the utilization of primary education facilities including gender. The SASs
have also served to identify specific focus groups for more targeted interventions such as the tribal groups
specific to Pithoragarh, the Kabtura and Bawria communities in Mahoba, the Nut community in Unnao, the
disadvantaged groups across the regions such as girls, the Muslims, SC children and working children,
particularly in Muzzafarnagar, Unnao and Ambedkarnagar districts.
- 21 -



6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: C
The project is not expected to raise any environmental concerns and it has been given a C category rating.
The environmental issues considered are primarily those related to siting (land clearing), construction,
operations and maintenance, since the proposed construction of about 2,795 new (small) primary schools
(consisting of three rooms each) are individual buildings in an equal number of different and scattered rural
villages. Inappropriate construction designs, haphazard construction practices and poor operations may
have the potential to impact local environments. As part of project preparation, a framework of norms has
been laid out to enable standardization in construction designs, good construction practices and
management and operation procedures. During siting, no trees will be cut and landscape is emphasized as
part of design such as hedges in place of boundary walls and study areas under trees. All buildings will
follow applicable construction building codes, including those for water supply, sanitation (boys and girls
toilets), ventilation, safety and hygiene. Certificates will be issued on structural safety, waterproofing,
ventilation and material usage, confirming that all designs are carried out as per relevant Bureau of Indian
Standard codes. All relevant design information such as, inter-alia, bills of materials and quantities,
specifications, location and detail of toilets and hand-pumps, etc., has been incorporated in a construction
manual in the local language, in the form of simple "how to" checklists. This will help in minimizing
environmental impacts and generate environment awareness. With respect to implementation, all designs
will be carried out by qualified consultants selected as per World Bank Guidelines. To ensure involvement
of local labor and women, village construction sub-committees have been formed as of part of the PRIs'
VECs and trained to supervise the construction work. Regular inspection and certification will also be
carried out by engineers from the State Public Works Department (PWD). Technical supervision will be
carried out at every main construction stage. An added emphasis is being laid on utilizing locally available
materials depending upon their maintenance span, durability, acceptability, familiarity and usage of these
materials by local artisans and craftsmen, cost and energy consumption. However, generally under the
UPBEP/DPEP Bank-financed projects, the construction of school building utilizes bricks for walls, steel or
locally available wood for doors and windows, reinforced cement concrete with or without infill tiles to
reduce concrete for roofs, plain cement concrete with brick bats and sand for flooring. These materials are
however, site specific and may vary from site to site. Under the DPEP II Credit, a construction research
fund of Rs. 50 lakhs has been provided to participating states for the development and design of
eco-friendly schools and training buildings. Some of these prototypes are now being used by DPEP
participating states, including Uttar Pradesh. As in the other UPBEP/DPEP Bank-financed projects,
supervision arrangements will include an architect, and may if warranted, also include an environrnental
specialist. Finally, GOUP has furnished an official document confirming that no involuntary resettlement
issues will arise from irnplementing the civil works component of the Credit in the UPDPEP III districts
and explaining how the districts will secure this land.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not usecL describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Identification/Preparation         Implementation  Operation
Conmnunity groups (parents,
children, teachers, local leaders, etc.)  *IS/CON                              IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
b. Other key stakeholders:
NGOs                                IS/C'ON                            IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
-22 -



Local government (PRIs)            IS/CON/COL                                IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
Academic institutions              IS/CON/COL                                IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
Govermnent departments             IS/CON/COL                         IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
(Dept. of Women and Child
Development, Panchayat Raj
Department, Dept. of Health)       IS/CON/COL                         IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
Active participation of stakeholders is the cornerstone of DPEP. As part of project preparation, and
consistent with DPEP requirements, five of all the proposed project districts identified on a representative
basis were required to conduct SASs under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. In addition,
extensive participation was invited from across the different stakeholder groups in the course of planning
through focus group discussions, the process of which has been clearly documented. This was done at the
level of every block in each of the project districts. Training provided to VECs, and recent delegation of
powers to them, is expected to further strengthen and facilitate continuing beneficiary participation in
program implementation. As the one-round of training provided to the VECs in previous UPBEP/DPEP
projects was considered inadequate, UPDPEP III proposes two rounds of VEC training with a provision for
follow-up with the assistance of qualified NGOs. The project also provides for active NGO participation
in implementation, particularly in the are of AS.
*Information sharing(IS); Consultation (CON);Collaboration(COL)
- 23 -



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The major issues relating to the financial sustainability of the proposed project were summarized in section
E2 (Summary Project Analysis, Financial), and are more fully documented in Annex 4. The annual
incremental liabilities of the project are estimated to be around Rs. 110 crores. During implementation, an
increasing part of these will be financed up to 75 percent (Rs. 82 crores) in the final year of the project by
the state government. In the following year, if the allocation to elementary education remains at the current
level of 2.3 percent of GSDP, the incremental resources available before those required for salary increases
would be almost Rs. 90 and Rs. I 80 crores, respectively, under the no-reform and reform scenarios.
Allowing for a 2 percent increase in salaries, the incremental resources would easily accomrnmodate the
liabilities under the reform scenario and almost cover them under the no-reform scenario. There is little
risk that the liabilities from this particular project cannot be funded as long as the state government is able
to implement its policy of hiring para-teachers at salary levels well below those of regular teachers. As
described in section E2 and more fully in Annex 4, however, sustaining the liabilities of all the programs
implemented under the four elementary education projects which will have been implemented in the state
will be difficult without increased rates of growth of GSDP, which will require changes in the government'
s revenue and expenditure policies. To provide the required financing for universalizing primary schooling
within the next 5-8 years will also require an increased share of government expenditures (from 11 to
around 14 percent) and GSDP (from 2.3 to around 3.0 percent) to elementary education (Annex 4). UP
has by far the highest share of primary school pupils in aided and unaided private schools across all states
(3 0-3 5 percent compared to an All-India average of 10-13 percent). To the extent that the projects improve
the quality of government primary schooling and induce pupils to switch from fee paying schools to
government schools, the financial requirements will increase further. Overall the financial projections
suggest that in addition to extra resources blieing required for the education sector as a whole, there may
also be need for some re-distribution within the sector towards elementary education.
The additional recurrent financial requirements for reaching the objectives of universalizing primary
schooling, fully described in Annex 4, are very dependent on the emoluments of additional teachers which
government is attempting to constrain through the employment of para-teachers. The government will also
experiment during the project with different models of double shifting to examine the possibilities of
reducing capital costs. One relevant finding of the universalization analysis presented in Annex 4 is that
financing of universal primary schooling by 2005 in UP could be achieved through implementing a public
finance reform package similar to the one p:roposed by Bank staff and increasing the share of basic
education in the gross state domestic product from the current 2.3 percent to 2.7 percent, and to around 3
percent if the demands on the upper primary system are also met.
Equally important as the financial sustainability of the recurrent liabilities emerging from the project is the
institutional dimension of sustainability. There are two encouraging aspects to institutional sustainability
of the proposed project. First, during pre-appraisal, the Bank mission was provided with the draft UPBEP
Sustainability Study and a draft Transition Plan commissioned by the SPO and in the process of being
adopted by GOUP. The mission found the study and the transition plan very helpful in understanding how
GOUP is going to financially and technically sustain, across the entire state, the pedagogical, managerial
and organizational innovations developed under the UPBEP I and II operations coming to completion in
March 2000. The mission was also informed that GOUP is absorbing the existing financial recurrent
liability of SIEMAT, BRCs, NPRCs, teacher salaries, Mahila Samakhya and teacher grants amounting to
about Rs. 217 crores per year. Furthermore, the SPO provided information on the mainstreaming of AS
students to formal schools and absorption of ECCE by ICDS in UPBEP districts. Second, the proposed
project design includes a larger degree of project implementation integration with the mainstream
- 24 -



educational institutions, especially below the state level, ensuring the configuration of an exit strategy right
from the start of project implementation.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Changes in the policy environment may     M         The project design is fully owned by
delay the implementation of GOUP's                  GOUP and has been fully endorsed by
fiscal reform.                                      GOUP's Chief Minister and Chief
Secretary. The enabling environment
created through agreed fiscal framework
and governance reform program will
reduce the risk of fiscal unsustainability
and will strengthen GOUP's
implementation capacity. In addition,
the phased sequenced nature of the
governance reform program provides
flexibility and allows for relatively easy
adjustments of the program to changed
circumstances.
Competing demands on limited state        S         The fiscal restructuring reform being
resources may affect availability of                undertaken by GOUP with Bank's
funds for long-term sustainment of                  assistance places a strategic importance
pedagogical, managerial and                         to financially support the achievement
organizational assets developed under               of universal lower primary education
the project, especially in the context of           within the next 10 years. In addition,
the current state fiscal crisis.                    GOUP has a record of increasing
funding in UPBEP I and II and DPEP
II, even in difficult circumstances.
Finally, the proposed project includes
cost-effective measures such as
para-teachers and use of double shift
schemes.
Supply and demand driven interventions    M         The community mobilization,
to increase enrollment, retention and               enrollment drives, awareness campaigns
learning of socially disdavantaged                  and women empowerement activities
groups, in particular girls, may not be             recorded in UPBEP I and II and DPEP
adequately targetted and effective.                 II since 1993 have produced
satisfactory results so far. Socially
disdavantaged groups will be targeted
with district-specific interventions
emerging from the SASs and the BASs.
Activities and utilization of the facilities
will be closely monitored during the
bi-annual supervision missions.
- 25 -



Irregular teacher and student attendance  M        VEC responsibilities are being extended
and insufficient instructional materials          to monitor teacher and student
may hinder quality improvement efforts.            attendance in school. The project will
develop improved instructional
materials, provide free books to girls
and book bank to schools in project
districts.
The holistic approach to pedagogical     M         An integrated plan has been developed
renewal may not be effectively delivered           for the project by the SPO which links
through the DIETs / BRCs / NPRCs /                 the respective roles of the different
school chain thus not ensuring                    levels of pedagogical resource support
appropriate follow-up of training                  structures as well as the sub-district
activities and provision of continuous            level administrative structures ana
on-site pedagogical support.                       provides for a comprehensive approach
for ensuring both on-site support and
follow-up of training.
There is a limited absorptive capacity   N         Based on a recommendation of the
by the SPO to effectively manage the              identification mission, GOUP has
entire Bank-financed primary school                strengthened the SPO senior managerial
improvement portfolio.                             level. UPBEP I and II are to be
completed in March 2000 and key
senior SPO personnel be fully assigned
to the management of the proposed
project. For the proposed project there
is a greater degree of managerial
integration with existing Divisional,
District and Sub-district structures, in
particular with respect to the monitoring
of project implementation.
The PRIs may not effectively manage      S         There have been positive experiences in
the expanded primary education                     UPBEP and DPEP since 1993 of
responsibilities assigned to them by the           effective involvement of PRIs in school
GOUP.                                              and classroom construction and
maintenance through the VEC.
Training will be provided to the VECs
to develop capacity for school
management. The school management
by the PRIs will be closely monitored
and a third-party evaluation required by
December 31, 2002.
- 26 -



From Components to Outputs
Appointment of para-teachers may be       M          Based on other successful para-teachers
carried out without ensuring                         experiences in India (Shiksha Karmi in
appropriate levels of quality.                       Rajasthan and MP), the project has
given special consideration to the: (i)
selection and recruitment criteria and
processes; (ii) periodic training; (iii)
continuous pedagogical support; (iv)
appropriate teaching and learning
materials; (v) possible career ladder;
(vi) mid-term evaluation; and (vii)
financial and technical sustainability.
GOUP has already issued a notification
of the scheme for the entire state. A
mid-term third-party evaluation will be
carried out to address the issue of
ensuring quality.
Upsurge in enrollments may lead to an                Agreement will be reached with GOUP
increase in teacher requirements                    to bring down and maintain the
student-teacher ratio in project districts
within the norm of 50:1
Weakness in state and district            M          GOUP has allowed for the posting of
professional resource institutions, in               qualified primary school teachers to
particular the DIETs, may slow down                  DIETS. Agreement will be reached
the quality improvement efforts and                  with GOUP to further strengthen the
may not effectively contribute to the                DIETs in project districts by filling up
sustainability of the pedagogical                    existing vacancies in the DIETs by
innovations after project completion.               December 31, 2000. Institutional
development plans for DIETs in project
districts are to be formulated by
December 31, 2000.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*   The long-term replacement of trained teachers by para-teachers and the impact on the quality of the
education provided.
*   The mainstreaming of AS students into formal schools.
*   The PRI's ability to effectively implement the activities envisaged by the project.
-27 -



G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
During negotiations it was agreed with GOI and GOUP that a signed Memorandum of Understanding
between the SIS and GOI satisfactory to the Bank would be made a condition of Credit effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, assurances were provided by GOI and GOUP to:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with agreed indicators, the carrying out of the project and achievement of the objectives
thereof;
(b) carry out with the Bank, a joint in-depith review of the project on two occasions by December 31, 2003
and March 31, 2005. The first in-deplh review will include the carrying out of third party evaluations
of: (i) para-teachers; (ii) double shifts; (iii) alternative schooling; (iv) early childhood centers; (v)
impact of teacher training and support systems; and (vi) VEC school management. The second
in-depth review will include a summative assessment of the project; and
(c) duly take into account the comments offered by the Bank during each joint review mission in the course
of further implementation of the project.
During negotiations, assurances were provided by GOUP to:
(d) carry out, and cause the SIS to carry cut, the Project in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and the
PIP agreed with the Bank;
(e) cause the SIS, as appropriate: (i) by December 31, 2000, complete the appointment of individuals with
adequate skills, qualifications and experience to the positions in the SPO, each Divisional Office, each
DPO, SCERT and SIEMAT as specified in the PIP and establish a program for their training; and (ii)
at all times maintain the SPO, Divisional Offices, DPOs, DIETs, SCERT and SIEMATwith powers,
functions, staff, resources and facilities necessary for the effective implementation of the Project and
take further steps to develop their capacity;
(f) complete the staffing of project DIETs or equivalent institutions by December 31, 2000;
(g) provide IDA during each joint reviewv mission with an updated estimate of student-teacher ratios in
each project district;
(h) carry out two assessment studies on student learning achievement in all the project districts, with scope
and content satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 2003 and by March 31, 2005;
(i) maintain GOUP's levels of expenditures on elementary education at least at the FY97-98 levels in real
terms;
(j) complete the project financial managernent system (PFMS) design and software by August 31, 2000
and have the PFMS fully operational by December 31, 2000;
(k) ensure that no involuntary resettlements arise from any use of land or change of land use for the
Project, except to the extent that the Bank agrees in writing prior to such resettlement that the
arrangements for such involuntary resettlement are satisfactory to the Bank;
(1) cause the SIS to implement the Project in accordance with strategies for improving primary education
of children from socially disadvantaged! groups as set forth in the PIP;
(m) cause the SIS to implement the Project in all tribal areas (as designated by UP in accordance with
applicable state laws) in accordance wvith procedures and strategies for the delivery of the Project
benefits to tribal people as set forth in the PIP;
(n) take all such actions as may be necessary or appropriate in order to require and enable the SIS to carry
- 28 -



out its obligations under the Memorandum of Understanding and the functions entrusted to it under the
project's legal agreements, all in a manner satisfactory to IDA;
(o) cause the SIS to: (i) implement the relevant project activities through the VPs in accordance to the
project's legal agreement; and (ii) take all such actions as may be necessary or appropriate in order to
require and enable the VPs to implement the relevant project activities; and
(p) cause the SIS to formulate and carry out a time bound program of training, satisfactory to IDA, in
order to enable the VPs to implement the relevant project activities.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
B1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
a 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Juan Prawda                       Ralph W. Harbison               o Edwin Lim
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
Task Team Leader
-29-



Annex 1: IProject Design Summary
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Hi~~rchy ~ ofi 9lj~iendicosMntrn  vIvaIuation                              Crta    su ti
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Within the basic thrust to   *Increased literacy rates of   *Human Development  *Human capital development
assist India to promote   adult population (1 5 years    Reports                helps alleviate poverty and
accelerated growth with   and above), especially                                will help induce growth with
equity, the proposed project   women.               *National Education Statistics  equity in UP.
supports GOUP progress                               (NES)
rapidly towards universal   eMore productive adults with                       *GOUP's fiscal reform
primary education in the  incomes over poverty lines,  *Research Studies        succeeds.
context of a comprehensive   especially in the rural areas.
program of sustainable                              *Economic and Sector Work
reforms.                 *Increased and mcre informed
levels of participation in civil *Census data
society.
*Reduction in gaps related to  *Household Survey data
gender and social equity.
*A more efficient and     *UP's Bulletin as prepared by
effective lower primary   the Reserve Bank of India
system in UP.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
*Progress towards all 6-10    *Percent increase in gross    *Educational Management   *Ensuring increased student
year old children in 42    enrollment and retention  Information System (EMIS). retention and appropriate
districts in the state,   (decreased repetition and                             quality levels of education
especially from socially  dropout) at lower primary    * Government of India    contributes to human
disadvantaged groups,     level in each project district   Educational Statistics.  productivity.
completing a five-year    by socially disadvantaged
primary education cycle of    groups (girls, SC and ST
appropriate quality,      children) and net onrollment *Bi-annual supervision
rates as they beccime     missions.
available.
* Percent gains in learning    * Learning assessment tests
achievement of clhildren in   administered at mid-term
mathematics and language    and end of project and
with respect to a district-  compared to district-specific
specific baseline assessment  baseline assessment studies.
(by girls, SC, ST).
*Increase in enrollrment of
working children and
children with disabilities in
schools.
- 30 -



Key Performance
Hi.rarhy of Onbject              4idis I,n & _                                             A mp 
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. With respect to                                   *EMIS                      *To achieve good quality
increasing enrollment and                                                        universal primary education
retention:                                                                       in UP, all the supply- and
demand-driven interventions
to increase enrollment,
retention and learning
achievement have to be
mainly targeted and field
tested to appropriately serve
the socially disadvantaged
groups.
*Increased number of student *Number of socially     * Specific-related research    *The proposed indicators
places created,           disadvantaged children,    and/or commissioned studies  measure behavior that will
disaggregated by                                    improve student
girls,SC,ST, mainstreamed                            achievement.
into the formal primary
education system.
*Increased number of      *Average district student-    *Supervision missions   *Community representation,
qualified teachers,       teacher ratios.                                       participation and ownership
para-teachers and alternative                       *In-depth evaluations       in addressing their school -
schooling instructors and                                                      related issues is essential to
thus improved student                                                           achieve the project's
teacher ratios.                                                                 objectives.
*Enhanced support from and *Number of VECs that meet
involvement of VECs and    regularly and are actively
community members in      working to have all children
achieving universal primary  attend school full time.
education in their catchment
area.                    * Specific instances of VECs
contribution to school
improvement.
- 31 -



2. With respect to improving
the quality of education:
*Improvements in teaching -  *Evidence of improved      *Classroom observation
learning conditions and     textbook availability with  studies
practices in the classrooms .  students and teachers.
*Evidence of use of TLM in
the classrooms.
* Extent of children's,
particularly girls,'
participation in. the
classrooms.
*Teachers present in the
classroom and facilitating
the learning process.
*Evidence that a variety of
teaching practices and
methods are being used by
the teachers in classroom
situation.
* Continuous (internal)
assessment and evaluation of
children's learning by
teachers.
*Improvements in the        * Frequency with which
pedagogical support systems  teachers receive guidance on
for teachers.              teaching in their classrooms
and with which they
participate in professional
development activities.
*Extent to which supervisors
(ABSAs) assist teachers and
visit schools regularly.
*Frequency of trainings
conducted by the BRCs.
*Percent of BRCs, NPRCs
and DIETs that are fully
staffed and functional.
- 32 -



3. With respect to improving
state, district and sub-district
(including the school and
community levels) capacity to
sustain the pedagogical,
managerial and
organizational improvements
after project completion.
*More effective management *The states and districts have
of primary education by the   a regularized and reflective
state and district education    decentralized annual
units.                     planning and budgeting
exercise.
*Useful EMIS, PMIS and
PFMS for the formulation of *The states, districts and
state and district AWPBs.    sub-district levels produce,
analyse and utilize annually
*State and district institutions  EMIS, PMIS and PFMS
and/or groups effectively  data.
implementing their assigned
pedagogical and managerial
tasks.                    *Timely and regular
perfomance of: (i) surveys of
learning assessment; (ii)
textbook distribution; and
(iii) in-service training.
*Effective distance education
modules for teachers used to
complement training.
- 33 -



$i.rarehy of 0  ecUvls       ~    Ii4ators           Mqnitorin* ~at.uaton   dr I 'sm  t
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
*Civil works              *Number of new primary     *Project Management        *Additional schools and
school buildings and      Information System (PMIS)   classrooms, qualified
additional class;rooms                               teachers, para-teachers and
completed.               *Progress reports           AS instructors will lead to
increased enrollments.
*Number of dilapidated    *Supervision missions
buildings reconstructed.                            *Specifically designed supply-
eMid term project assessment and demand-driven
*Number of BRC and NPRC                               interventions which are
buildings completed.                                 district-specific will increase
enrollment.
*Number of ECCE centers
constructed/operationalized.
* Staff                   *Number of teachers,                                  *Active community
para-teachers and alternative                       involvement in school
schooling instructors in                             management will increase
place by type of                                     enrollment, completion and
appointment.                                         student learning.
*Number of BRC' and NPRC                             *ECCEs and MS are proven
coordinators posts filled.                           effective interventions to
enroll and retain in school
*Number of SPO, DPO and                               more socially disadvantaged
Divisional Offices posts                             children, especially girls.
filled.
*Number of posts filled in
DIETs in project districts.
*Convergence with other   *Number of ECCE centers                               *Improved instructional
programs                  established and/or made fully                         materials for students and
operational in each project                          teachers are required to
districts.                                           change teaching and
learning classroom practices
*Number of schools receiving                          by teachers and students.
regular medical check-up of                          They also enhance the
children.                                            interest in reading and
learning in children.
*Institutions' effojls at
networking to draw in
additional expertise.
- 34 -



*Community mobilization    *Number of fully constituted                         *Learning assessment
VECs.                                               findings (item analyses) are
required to inform the
*Number of NGOs involved                              system stakeholders and
in community mobilization,                           ensure their participation in
designing and implementing
corrective and/or preventive
pedagogical improvement
measures.
*Training                 *Number of induction and                              *Working SPO and DPOs,
refresher trainings conducted                        staffed with qualified
of regular teachers,                                 personnel are required to
para-teachers, AS instructors                        implement the project in a
and supervisors,                                    timely, efficient and effective
way.
*Number of ECE workers
trained.                                            *Strengthened and fully
operational state and district
*Number of BRC and NPRC                               resource institutions and/or
coordinators trained.                                groups are essential for
project implementation and
*Number of integrated                                 sustainability after project
education orientation courses                        completion.
organized.
*Specific studies are required
eNumber of training courses                           to monitor implementation
organized for DIET faculty.                          progress from time to time,
evaluate project impacts, and
*Number of VECs members                               if utilized in a formative
trained.                                             mode, make mid-course
corrections during project
*Number of training courses                           implementation.
organised for administrative
and professional staff.                             * Fully operational VECs are
required to ensure ownership
*Number of training                                   of school-related issues by
programs organised by                                stakeholders.
SIEMAT.
- 35 -



*Teaching and learning    *Number of students
quality inputs            receiving free improved                              *Empowering teachers and
textbooks.                                           VECs is conducive to
increase teachers' motivation
oNumber of teachers                                   and commitment to its
receiving free teachers'                             students and VECs'
guides.                                              ownership of school-related
issues.
*Number of teachers
receiving teaching and
learning material grants.
*Number of self-instructional
materials developed for
distance education programs.
*Number of school book
banks set up.
*Strengthening state and  *Number of research and
district capacity for     commissioned studies
monitoring, research and  completed and evidence that
evaluation                findings from the
research/studies have been
disseminated.
- 36 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Uttar Pradesh (UP), with a population of 160 million people, is not only India's largest state but also one of
the poorest with some of the country's worst social indicators. It has the fourth lowest literacy rate among
the Indian states (41 percent), ahead only of Bihar, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. Its female
literacy percentage is 25 which is below the national average of 39.2 percent (Census,1991). Intra-state
variations present an even more dismal picture with rural female literacy rate being as low as 9 percent.
About 5.4 million children in the 6-11 age group do not attend primnary school in the 42 project districts.
Of those who do, about 33 percent drop-out before completing Class 5. The learning achievement levels of
those who complete basic education also leave much to be desired. This scenario demands immediate and
comprehensive action towards attainment of the goal of universal primary education.
To provide impetus to the Government of Uttar Pradesh's (GOUP) efforts towards universalization, the
World Bank has for the last seven years been providing credit and technical support. IUPDPEP III will be
the fourth World Bank financed operation in primary education in the state covering initially 38 new and
socially disadvantaged districts. This proposed investment will complement other primary education
interventions carried out by GOUP in 17 districts (under the UPBEP I and II IDA credits) and in 18
districts (under the DPEP II IDA credit). Four additional disadvantaged districts covered by DPEP II will
be absorbed by UPDPEP III from year three onwards bringing the total number of project districts to 42.
UPDPEP III has been conceptualized on the basis of the accumulated learning experience of the previous
Bank-financed primary education operations in the state and its design comprises the following distinctive
features: (a) there is a greater degree of integration at the start of project implementation with the existing
mainstream educational state management structures especially at the divisional, district and sub-district
levels; (b) it contains a range of cost saving and locally specific alternatives including use of para-teachers
(shiksha mitras) and a menu of alternative schooling (AS) options to ensure access to marginalized groups,
double shifts, new civil works construction prototypes and dovetailing with other district-based
construction funds; (c) it includes a fine-tuned holistic pedagogical approach to address quality issues; (d)
it expands and strengthens Early Childhood Care and Education; (e) it comprises a girls' cluster model
approach to address the issue of gender; (f) it forges functional linkages with the district and block health
authorities to ensure quarterly health check-ups of school children; (g) it seeks a larger degree of
collaboration with qualified NGOs; and (h) it has incorporated an exit strategy from the onset of project
implementation to ensure sustainable institutional capacity building at all levels.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$80.10 million
Expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary educatior especially for children from
disadvantaged groups includes the following sub-components:
Appointment of para-teachers: A major factor known to adversely influence access and retention
parameters at the primary level is the problem of teacher shortage and an inequitable distribution of regular
teachers, resulting from a large number of vacant teacher positions, unjustified staffing ratios between
schools and teachers' preferences of locations for posting. The proposed project will address this issue
through the following three-fold strategy to be implemented by GOUP: (i) filling of existing vacancies
against sanctioned teachers' posts; (ii ) redeployment of existing teachers on a rationalized basis to ensure a
teacher pupil ratio within the acceptable norm of 1:50; and (iii) appointment of para-teachers to new and
- 37 -



existing schools on the pattern of the Shiksha Karmi project in Rajasthan. GOUP has already filled 27,000
vacancies of regular teachers. The filling of existing teacher vacancies in project districts during project
implementation is not being financed by the Credit and will be fully absorbed by GOUP's budget.
The redeployment of teachers is proposed in the first year of the project itself. GOUP has already
introduced the system of school-wise staff strength for teachers based on pupil-teacher ratio and is in the
process of rationalizing teacher deployment in FY99-2000 itself to ensure a teacher-pupil ratio norm of
1:50. Posting of women teachers to ensure one female teacher in each school has also been initiated by
GOUP to encourage participation of girls in primary education.
The para-teachers (shiksha mitras) will be selected and appointed by the VEC of the Panchayat. Their
tenure will be for a period of 11 months to be renewed on the basis of performance assessment by the VEC.
The twelfth paid month will be utilized for training and considered a break in service to satisfy a legal
requirement to differentiate them from regular employees in terms of their legal status. The scheme
envisages a minimum recruitment of 50 percent women. They will require a minimum academic
qualification of senior secondary level and will be paid a monthly honorarium of Rs. 1,450 with an increase
of Rs. 200 after every two years of continuous service. It is expected that at least two para-teachers will be
in charge of classes I and 2 while regular teachers will teach classes 3 to 5. The para-teachers will be
given 30 days' induction training and a refiresher course of 15 days' duration every year thereafter. The
project is also providing for continuous professional support for para-teachers and considering a career
ladder to motivate and sustain their interest. The proposed credit would reimburse on a declining basis the
honorarium of about 17,000 para-teachers in project districts.
Construction and rehabilitation of schools and classrooms and provision of toilets and water facilities:
As per the GOUP's norms, a primary schoo l is to be provided to each habitation of 300 within a distance of
1.5 km. (1 km. for hilly regions). As per this norm, 3,102 unserved habitations have been identified in all
project districts of which 2,795 will be provided with new primary schools under the project. The primary
schools in the remaining 307 habitations will be met by other government schemes. In addition, the project
will finance the construction of 12,271 new classrooms, the rehabilitation of 3,256 existing schools, the
repair of 9,015 schools and the installation of 15,589 toilets and 5,770 hand pumps. The construction
program will limit costs through the use of local resource and technologies, cost-effective school
construction prototypes (developed under DPEP II) and by sharing 60 percent of the total cost with the
centrally-sponsored Employment Assurance Schemes. Construction manuals and training procedures have
been finalized. This project sub-component will be entrusted to the village Panchayats (VPs) and is to be
completed by the third year of project implementation. The Credit will also provide each school with Rs.
10,000 for a standardized package of furniture and instructional materials. Financing of primary school
improvement activities will also be done through an annual allocation of Rs. 2,000 to each VP in project
districts. Prior to negotiations, written assurance was received from GOUP that no involuntary
resettlements will arise from any use of land or change of land use for the project.
Piloting and introduction of double shift models: A cost-effective option of double shifting and a better
utilization of existing infrastructure is considered by the project in schools with large enrollments of
150-200 children or more. Double shift will be initially implemented in a sample number of blocks in each
project district. The following five models will be tried out within the stipulations of the UP Education Act
which provides for a minimum of six hours of instruction for grade 3 and above: (a) running of two
simultaneous shifts of six hours each for classes 1-5 in existing schools in which the infrastructure is at
present under-utilized; (b) teaching in shifts by rotation so that teachers will teach grades 1 and 2 in the
first shift for the first three hours of the day while grades 3-5 do self-study and then teach grades 3-5 in the
next shift for the next three hours; (c) operating two batches of Classes 1 and 2 students to be taught by the
- 38 -



same teachers in two shifts by keeping the school hours limited to three hours instead of six; (d) operating
two shifts in the forenoon and afternoon of classes I to V with different sets of teachers; and (e) operating
the traditional model with para-teachers for grades I and Il and regular teachers for grades III to V. The
Credit will finance the hiring of para-teachers as well as the development of self-learning material required
in modality (b) above for grades 3-5 for the morning session to ensure quality time on task. The above
strategies will be constantly monitored and evaluated before scaling up.
Provision of alternative schooling (AS) facilities: For villages and hamlets identified through social
assessment studies, for which the state norms for school construction do not apply and for situations where
children cannot avail given school facilities, the project will provide AS options. The community is
expected to provide a room (as in DPEP II) with no charge to the project. The different client-responsive
AS options include: (a) AS for small, isolated communities where the total number of children would not
exceed 30-40; (b) enriching of the maktabs/madarsa program, especially for Muslim girls by adding the
literacy component in consultation with the minority community and religious leaders; (c) special
arrangements for flood-prone areas where schooling is disrupted during the monsoons; (d) bal shalas for
3-8 year old children combining pre-school education with classes I and 2; (e) special schools for working
children; (f) bridge courses through camp methodology for drop-outs, especially girls; (g) prahar
pathshalas or non-formal centers for 9-14 year old out-of-school girls; and (h) shiksha ghar, a flexible
non-formal education model for 6-11 year old children. In addition, the GOUP's Education Guarantee
Scheme (EGS), a demand-driven model developed along the experience of Madhya Pradesh, envisages
opening schools for classes 1 and 2 in habitations that do not have a school within a radius of 1 km. but
have 30 children (20 in the hill region) in the 6-11 age group requiring a school. The community identifies
the teacher, provides accommodation and decides the time, duration and venue for the center. The Credit
will finance the instructor's salary on a declining basis and development of appropriate teaching-learning
materials and training modules for the different AS models to be prepared by qualified NGOs. Training
will consist of a 30-day induction period through a cascade model followed-up by a twelve-day annual
training period for AS instructors and a fifteen-day annual training period for EGS instructors thereafter.
The AS options will be supervised by the local cluster (NPRC) coordinators.
Specific interventions designed to address the educational needs of children from socially
disadvantaged groups (girls, SC and ST children, working children, children with disabilities and
other children with limited access to educational opportunities} While the above AS interventions are
proposed to address the unreached sections of the population in general, some interventions are proposed
more specifically for the special focus groups. For children of SCs who constitute 21 percent of the
population in the state, the project proposes preferential opening of new schools and EGS centers in areas
predominantly inhabited by SCs, reservation of 21 percent posts for SCs in the recruitment of teachers and
para-teachers, free textbooks, convergence with GOUP's scholarship scheme and the mid-day meal scheme
to offset opportunity costs and emphasis in VEC training on equity issues. The ST population in UP is only
0.2 percent and is limited to isolated habitations in the hilly parts of the state. While these interventions
would cover this small ST population as well, the additional inputs for the ST include supplementary
instructional materials in local dialect and peripatetic teachers in the case of migratory populations. UP is
known to have the largest number of working children particularly involved in the carpet, glass and brass
ware industries and lock manufacturing units. Several initiatives to tackle the problem of education of
these working children have already been taken by different NGOs. The project would fund initiatives in
conjunction with these experienced NGOs in project districts which have a substantial population of
working children. For children with disabilities, of which estimates indicate that 5-10 percent do not enroll
in primary schools or are likely to drop-out, the proposed strategies to be financed by the Credit include
medical examination of all students, creation of a well-trained core group in each district on disabilities,
provision of physical facilities, training of teachers to recognize disabilities and to develop specially
- 39 -



adapted teaching-learning materials.
To address the gender gap the project includes provision of free textbooks and other educational materials
to girls, provision of escorts for older girls, positioning of female teachers and interventions through the
Mahila Samakhya (MS) Program in seven project districts in a phased manner. A model cluster approach
for targeted and intensive interventions for girls' education, already tried out in DPEP Il, will be replicated.
This approach will focus on providing inpul:s like participatory learning approach and microplanning for
identification of girls' problems, VEC traini.ng, formation of mother teacher associations, community
mobilization with messages for girls' education, arrangements for opening of alternative schools and ECE
centers, all in an integrated manner. This approach will be closely monitored, documented, assessed at the
end of the year and upscaled on the basis of assessment.
New Early Childhood Care and Education (ECE) centers will be selectively established and existing centers
strengthened to improve school readiness and contribute to the enrollment and retention of girls by
providing alternative source of sibling care cluring school hours. ECE, which is mainly provided through
the Integrated Child Development Services ('ICDS), is proposed to be strengthened through convergence
between primary schools and ICDS centers in terms of location and timing and provision of educational
toys and additional training to ICDS workers. The project will finance a non-recurring grant of Rs. 5,000
for play materials, a contingency of Rs. 1,500 per year for replacement of materials and an additional
honorarium to the ICDS worker for the extended hours of stay. A total of 4,765 ICDS centers will be
strengthened and about 1,859 rooms will be constructed near schools under the project. In areas unserved
by ICDS at present, new ECE centers will be opened through grants to some proven qualified and
interested NGOs.
Carrying out of regular health check ups of school children: The project would support functional
linkages with the block and district health authorities to ensure regular quarterly health check-ups of the
school children and thus promote the integral development of children and improve their regular attendance
to school. The project would finance the: (i) provision of deworming tablets; (ii) monthly examination of
children for the diagnosis of disabilities; (iii) visiting of doctors and payment of a daily honorarium of Rs.
100 per doctor in case that private doctors are engaged for this purpose; and (iv) printing of health and
referral cards. A committee chaired by the District Magistrate and including the District Chief Medical
Officer, the Basic Education Officer and other related officials will closely monitor the implementation of
this sub-component.
Mobilizing and strengthening community organizations, particularly VPs and VECs, and carrying
out awareness campaigns: Community mobilization is proposed to develop in the community the required
sensitivity towards the importance of educating children and developing a sense of ownership towards
addressing in a more pro-active way their primary school-related issues. The project will build capacity in
about 28,450 VECs in project districts to enable them to play a significant role in school management. The
project also proposes to draw upon other sche:mes such as the Development of Women and Children in
Rural Areas, water users groups and the women's self-help groups under the Sodic Land Reclamation
Project to increase women's participation in VECs as well as in school management. About one half of the
VECs will be trained during the first year of project implementation and the rest in the second year. The
first tranche of training is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002. A second round of training will be
conducted for these VECs in year three and fo-ar respectively of the project. Qualified NGOs will be
engaged to conduct training as well as to ensure follow-up actions with the community and school.
Project Component 2 - US$58.60 million
Improving quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement levels in primary
-40 -



education includes the following sub-components:
Instituting a holistic pedagogical renewal approach for comprehensive and continuous support for
teacher development and follow up professional support to teachers, para-teachers and AS
instructors: The project will finance the strengthening of the state resource group at the SPO and the
establishment of district resource groups in each project district drawn from the primary teachers' cadre,
existing state and district institutions and qualified NGOs working in this area. These groups would, on the
basis of identified needs emerging from visioning workshops at all levels, carry out holistically: (i)
curriculum revisions (if required); (ii) development of improved instructional materials; (iii) development of
training materials and modules; (iv) design of a follow-up scheme to monitor and support changes in
classroom practice; and (v) development of a system of continuous internal learning assessment to be
utilized by teachers in their day-to-day classroom practice.
The project will finance training workshops to evolve a common pedagogical vision across the district,
block and cluster levels, for teachers, trainers and administrators. This will be followed by 30 days' initial
and 12 days' recurrent annual training of teachers through a two-tiered, cascade model with a focus on
child-centered teaching methodologies, multigrade and large class teaching and content enrichment. The
fourth and fifth rounds of the recurrent training are proposed on specific training needs of the teachers,
drawn up in a decentralised mode at the cluster level (NPRCs), to supplement the content-based training.
The project will also fund recurrent training for master trainers and training in-charges at all levels
including a five days' annual training of BRC coordinators and assistant coordinators, NPRC coordinators,
Assistant Basic Shiksha Adhikaris (ABSAs) at the block level, sub-divisional inspectors and head teachers.
The training will include a follow-up action plan and indicators for classroom observation to enable
BRC/NPRC coordinators and master trainers to focus the monthly block/cluster level meetings on specific
need-based issues and topics for teachers. The project will also provide for an interface of the sub-district
academic and administrative structures and criteria for their periodic evaluation from year one of the
project itself. To expand the reach of training, the project will finance the adoption of a distance education
strategy including a training package and materials being prepared by the State Institute of Educational
Technology (SIET) in DPEP II districts. The project will also finance the installation of a dish antenna in
each project DIET and the provision of Rs. 75,000 to each district in the second year of the project for the
preparation of audio-visual training material.
To further develop sub-district level follow-up and school-based resource support systems, the project will
finance the establishment of 426 BRCs and 4,130 NPRC in the project districts. These institutions will
provide facilities for training at the block and cluster levels, peer group interaction and on-site professional
support to regular teachers, parateachers and AS and EGS instructors. Each BRC will have one full-time
coordinator with two assistant coordinators and 10-12 NPRCs under its jurisdiction. The NPRC would
have a full-time coordinator appointed from amongst the more successful local primary teachers to provide
regular on-site academic support to teachers from about 10 nearby primary schools. Construction of BRCs
will be carried out during the second and third year of project implementation by local contractors under
individual contracts through a supervision consultancy under the project. The first year will be utilized for
the final selection of sites, preparation of detailed designs, and training of VP members and engineers
appointed on contract under the project.
Developing and supplying improved instructional materials and providing financial support to
teachers and para-teachers for the acquisition and/or development of teaching-learning materials
(TLM): GOUP has already undertaken a collaborative exercise of curriculum renewal and revision for
grades 1 to 5 under UPBEP and DPEP II. This exercise was based on an understanding of classroom
realities (through classroom observations) including instructional time available, learning load on children,
-41 -



child-centered approach, multigrade and multilevel classrooms and linkages with the local context. As an
output of this exercise, new textbooks and l eachers guides have been developed which have been accepted
by the Basic Shiksha Parishad, of which two are being used across the state and the other four are under
trialling. The thrust of the first round of teacher training and of the six monthly NPRC meetings in the
project districts would be on the use of these new textbooks and teacher guides as well as for the production
of textbook-specific TLMs. The project will finance through the VPs the provision of an annual allocation
of Rs. 500 per teacher for the development of TLMs and organization of regular fairs (materials melas) at
regional, district, block and cluster levels from the second to the last year of the project. The project will
also fund the development of self-study materials for children, keeping in mind the prevailing multigrade
situations, and will promote the use of learning corners, development of wall newspapers and activity
banks.
Providing book banks: The DPEP in UP provides for distribution of free textbooks to all girls, SC and
ST children in the project districts. Experience from previous projects indicates that several boys from
families below the poverty line not belonging to the SC and ST groups are also not able to afford
textbooks. The project will therefore fund the provision of school book banks in all project districts
consisting of 10 sets of textbooks per school to be used on a reusable basis for children in this category.
Carrying out assessment of children's learning The project will address the issue of assessment in two
ways: (i) internal, implying the building of teachers' capacity to develop their own instruments and/or
methods for continuous and comprehensive assessment of their students; and (ii) external at the district
level through the mid- and end-term reviews of gains in achievement levels from project interventions on a
sample basis in the project districts. For continuous pupil assessment, the system evolved under DPEP II
will be adopted and reviewed in the third year of the project. In addition, classroom observation studies
will also be conducted during project implementation on a sample basis.
Project Component 3 - US$ 76.00 million
Improving state, district and sub-district level capacity to manage primary education includes the
following sub-components:
Strengthening the State Project Office (SPO) and the Divisional Offices: The Uttar Pradesh Sabke
Liye Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad (State Implementation Society - SIS), was established in May 1993 as
an autonomous body registered under the GOI's Societies' Registration Act, 1860 for implementing the
UPBEP I, and further amended to implement UPBEP II and DPEP II in UP. The SIS has a General
Council, headed by the State's Chief Minister., which provides overall policy guidelines to the Project
Board. It's Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Secretary of GOUP, has all the
administrative, financial and executive authority to achieve the project's objectives, including the power to
create posts and make appointments. The State Project Director is a Member-Secretary of the General
Council and the Executive Committee. The SPO has accumulated significant project management capacity
since 1993. Nonetheless, in view of the large geographical scope of this project, the SPO will be further
strengthened with additional professional staff taking into account the indicative staffing pattern of DPEP
(as communicated by the GOI), the minimum staff requirements for an expanded program and the fact that
some high level staff associated with the implementation of UPBEP I and II (both coming to completion on
March 2000) will be transferred to the SPO. The Credit will also fund purchase of equipment, including
computers and a photocopier for the SPO. The project design proposes delegating partial monitoring
responsibilities to the existing 19 administrative divisions by upgrading these as Divisional Project Offices.
The project would fund one deputy divisional director and four clerical staff as well as some minimal
equipment, including vehicles for these Divisional offices.
-42 -



Strengthening capacity of district project management structures: The capacity of districts to plan and
manage program delivery would require strengthening of the district management structures. In the
proposed project, the Basic Shiksha Adhikari (District Education Officer) will act as ex-officio District
Project Officer (DPO). The Deputy Basic Shiksha Adhikaris will be designated as Additional District
Project Officers for their jurisdiction. The DPOs will prepare AWPBS, manage the flow of project funds
to project activities and monitor the implementation of these activities at the block, cluster, school and
village levels. The project will fund staffing of the district project office with four positions of program
coordinators for the respective functional areas, and construction engineers at the district and block levels
and also fund procurement of necessary equipment. It is expected that by the end of 2000, the DPOs,
including their management information system cell, will be fully functional.
At the block level, the Assistant Basic Shiksha Adhikari (ABSA) will be the Block Project Officer for the
project. The proposed project recognizes the need to also strengthen the coordination and linkage between
the existing administrative and academic supervision structures (BRCs and CRCs). The project will
therefore integrate the administrative position of the ABSA already in the system, by delineating roles,
funding of provision of office space in the BRC, provision of mobility support, organization of common
visioning workshops for a shared perception of DPEP goals and provision of specific inputs from SIEMAT
on supervision activities.
Integrating and strengthening existing state and district resource institutions in project
implementation: At the state level, the SPO has been implementing UPBEP/DPEP in close collaboration
with the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and the State Institute of
Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT). UPDPEP III will further strengthen capacities of
SCERT to: (i) develop curriculum and textbooks, teachers' guides and other learning materials in line with
the new pedagogical approach; (ii) design and prepare layouts for printing of textbooks to ensure that the
contracted printers can become self-sufficient in the production of finished books of a better and more
consistent quality; (iii) conduct learning assessment studies; and (iv) provide academic leadership to the
Districts Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) and build their capacity for providing professional
support, in turn, to the sub-district level institutions. SCERT has conducted the district-based baseline
learning assessment studies required during project preparation and is expected to carry out the mid- and
end-of project learning assessments as well. The Credit would also finance expansion of training facilities
in SIEMAT and support its capacity building activities for analysis of the information generated by the
educational management information system (EMIS) and the preparation and appraisal of Annual Work
Plan Budgets(AWPBs) at the state and district levels. SIEMAT has already trained 28 district planning
teams in project design and first year AWBP preparation.
The State Institute of Educational Technology (SIET) is expected to provide resource support for the
development of in-service teacher training distance education programs and materials. The project would
fund orientation of SIET staff and the procurement of equipment to facilitate the provision of distance
education programs and materials. The project would also fund training of personnel and improvement of
facilities in the State Textbook Office (STO) to increase its ability to maintain inventories, details of
printers and publishers and records of distribution in each district.
DIETs are expected to play a key role in training, resource support and supervision at the district level.
UPDPEP III proposes to initiate, for the first time, a comprehensive DIET staff development package
including training, exposure visits to succesful academic institutions and academic leadership roles in
research, data analysis and monitoring of classroom process indicators. SCERT and SIEMAT are
expected to play a key role in the capacity development of the DIET faculty. The Credit will finance the
strengthening of existing 30 DIETs in terms of technical support, educational materials, consumable
-43 -



supplies, incremental operating expenses and a more effective use of their field laboratory areas. The eight
project districts that do not have a DIET will be supported by neighbouring DIETS. The faculty positions
in the DIETS in the project districts have been vacant for a long time. During negotiations, GOUP
provided assurances that the staffing of DIETs or equivalent institutions in project districts will be
completed by December 31, 2000.
During negotiations GOUP agreed that as a step towards further developing the necessary capacity of
SCERT, SIEMAT and project DIETs for the effective implementation of the project, institutional
development plans for these institutions will be prepared by December 31, 2000.
Involving qualified NGOs in project implementation The implementation of UPBEP I and II and DPEP
II, as well as the preparation of UPDPEP III has included the participation of about 50 qualified state and
out-of-state NGOs (a list of them is in the project files). The SPO has drawn up detailed criteria for the
selection of NGOs to assist in project design and implementation. The project will finance the participation
of experienced and qualified NGOs during the execution of specific project-related areas such as resource
support for pedagogy, research and evaluation, ECCE, development of training modules for and
implementation of AS programs and commtnity mobilization.
Strengthening state and district capacity fror monitoring, research and evaluation and carrying out
related activities: The EMIS, PMIS and PFMS will be used for monitoring progress. The EMIS and
PMIS have been developed and fine tuned under previous Bank-financed operations in primary education in
the country. The Credit will fund development of capacity of the district and sub-district staff to manage
the EMIS and PMIS systems, carry out school mapping exercises, consult with parents and community,
prepare AWPBs and monitor project implementation. The project would also fund capacity building for
conducting research and evaluation studies pertaining to the project objectives as well as to assess the
effectiveness of innovations implemented in the project. Third party evaluation studies will also be carried
out. The SPO may also consider contracting out these studies to NGOs, universities and other apex
institutions. There will be an annual review Of implementation covering physical targets for civil works,
procurement, training, software systems, investment proposals and fnancing requirements for the next
fiscal year. The review will be conducted in the first quarter of each year by DPEP. Progress reports and
work plans would follow a common framework for all the districts. Progress towards achievement of
developmental objectives will be measured in the following ways: (i) district-based assessment surveys
conducted in the third and last year of the project will monitor progress on key education indicators against
the respective baselines identified during preparation; (ii) classroom observation studies will assess the
impact of project interventions on the classroom climate and pedagogy; (iii) PMIS, in compliance with the
Bank's LACI requirements will provide quarterly information on the project's physical targets for civil
woks, procurement and training, software system development and expenditures; (iv) bi-annual supervision
missions will be conducted by the Bank including review workshop to report on progress and share
experiences; and (v) two in-depth reviews will be conducted by GOI and GOUP by December 31, 2003 and
March 31, 2005. The EMIS will provide age-specific enrollment data at village level, year-wise retention
rates by grade, gender and socially disadvantaged students for consecutive school years and average
student and teacher ratios. This information will be based on school records. The PFMS will monitor
disbursements and financial management.
Annex 2A: Social Assessment Survey (SAS)
SAS characteristics: The SAS was conducted on a sample basis in five of the project districts identified
as representing distinct geographical, social and cultural dimensions of the state. The five districts were
Mahoba, Unnao, Pithoragarh, Muzaffarnagar and Ambedkarnagar representing Bundelkhand, Central,
- 44 -



Hills, Western and Eastern regions, respectively. Each region has its own peculiarity. The hills have a
more significant tribal population; Bundelkhand region has a more scattered population; the central and
eastern regions have a higher percentage of SC population; and the western region, though relatively more
advanced economically, has a major problem of girls' education. These surveys, which are an essential
requirement for project preparation, were conducted to specifically identify special focus groups and
generate a better understanding of the constraints experienced by these disadvantaged groups. Data for the
study was collected through use of both quantitative and qualitative methods. In addition to use of
secondary data, primary data was collected through semi-structured interview schedules, focus group
discussions with parents, teachers and local elite and classroom observations. In each district two blocks
were identified and within each block, five villages were identified for the study using the criteria of low
literacy and high concentration of disadvantaged communities. The major findings of the studies were
shared through district-level workshops which had the participation of district officials and program
functionaries from the sampled and neighboring districts. The relevant findings of these studies include: (i)
the existing social structures, their relationship with and impact on the education system; (ii) pattern of
exclusion to schooling and the constraints of location, gender, social, economic and cultural factors
impeding access; (iii) patterns of working children; and (iv) constraints to girls' educational development.
The findings of these studies are being utilized for the preparation of the district-specific first-year AWPBs.
Special focus groups: The SAS clearly indicates that the social structure regarding divisions and norms
for different castes is still intact for most of the project districts in the state. While upper castes are
economically more advanced due to historical reasons, the Other Backward castes (OBCs) and SC are
generally deprived of their rights and resources and constitute the major portion of the out-of school
population. Another focus group common to all districts, except Pithoragarh, is that of Muslims who tend
to give low priority to formal education. For them, religious teachings and speaking of Urdu is important
for which they prefer to send their children to madarsas. Both SC and Muslims have low expectations
about employment opportunities available to them and therefore prefer to get their children involved in
traditional economic activity. ST population is not common across districts but is more prominent in the
hilly, Pithoragarh region with very small pockets of Kabtura and Bawria tribes identified in Mahoba and
Muzzafarnagar districts and the 'nut' tribe in Unnao. These groups are identified as special focus groups
for these districts. Girls constitute another major segment of the disadvantaged population with gender
disparities being wide across the five districts. Girls stay out of schools mainly because of household
responsibilities and care of younger siblings as well as due to negative social attitudes traditionally existing
in the social community. Muzzafarnagar, Unnao and Ambedkarnagar also have a more significant
population of working children involved in gainful employment who need to be brought into the fold of
education. In addition to these groups, in Muzzafarnagar, Mahoba, Ambedkarnagar and Unnao, children
of brick kiln workers, landless laborers and of families living in flood-prone zones have also been identified
as groups needing special attention.
Major barriers to participation in education: The main factors that emerged from the SASs as
significant for low participation and low rate of completion of primary education across the regions were
poverty and inability to bear the opportunity cost of schooling, illiteracy and orthodox attitudes of parents
particularly regarding girls' education (purdah system among Muslim girls), lack of interest among children
in schooling, dissatisfaction with quality of teaching in schools, unavailability of textbooks with all
children, multigrade teaching, household and sibling care responsibilities, clash of academic session with
season for agricultural operations, teacher absenteeism, children involved in income generating activities,
lack of teachers and high teacher-pupil ratio, preference to religious education among minorities and
discriminatory attitudes towards the SC children.
Major interventions proposed: In view of the above, the major interventions proposed by the project
-45 -



include free textbooks to girls and SC/ST children, book banks for poor children not covered in the above
category, community mobilization and awareness building particularly through active involvement of the
PRIs, strengthening of ECE centers through convergence with ICDS, quarterly health check-ups for all
school children, AS for special focus groups with flexibility in timings, recruitment of para-teachers and
filling of sanctioned teachers' posts and provision of continuous teacher training particularly in multigrade
teaching settings, strengthening of madarsas and maktabs, and implementation of the EGS.
Annex 2B: Baselin e Learning Achievement Survey (BAS)
The BAS conducted in all the project districts show that overall levels of learning are low. The
performance of class 4 students in language and mathematics was found to be below standard with the
mean percent achievement varying from 35 percent to 54 percent in language and from 16 percent to 40
percent in Math. Wide interdistrict variations in the learning achievement of Class 1 students exist with
district Mathura reporting 23 percent in language achievement compared to 71 percent in Baghpat district.
Similarly, the Math score was 33 percent in Mathura and 76 percent in Baghpat. Gender disparities and
differentiation by social categories in the learning achievement levels are small, though significant. An
attempt to classify districts by mean achievement levels shows six of them in the high achievement
category, namely Bijnore, Faizabad, Haridwar, Baghpat, Muzzafarnagar and Uttarkashi. Twelve districts
reveal low achievement levels, namely Etah. Farrukhabad, Fatehpur, Ghazipur, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Jhansi,
Mainpuri, Mathura, Mau, Mirzapur and Unnao. The remaining 20 districts have average achievement
levels.
The BAS has also indicated the need for substantial improvement in the quality and frequency of teacher
training presently existing in the project dist:ricts. Significantly, 36 percent of the sample schools reported
adverse teacher-pupil ratios which were more than the accepted norm of 1:50. Furthermore, 21 percent of
teachers reported multi-grade classroom situations for which there are currently no appropriate pedagogical
methodologies in use. The study also reports a lack of motivation amongst teachers. Recent classroom
observation studies undertaken in a sample of UPBEP districts also indicate that the prevailing classroom
conditions are uninteresting, uninspiring and unattractive demonstrating use of out-dated teaching practices
and lack of effective academic supervision arid guidance. The study demonstrates a clear need for making
available teachers' guides, children's workbooks and self-learning materials.
-46 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
.    . .  - ,.ai:l    Foreign :      >
Projet t y Cmponeiot                     S mn
Expanding access to and increasing retention in primary  73.60         0.10        73.70
education
Improving quality and achievement levels in primary education  52.90   0.00        52.90
Improving state, district and sub-district capacity to manage  69.50   1.10        70.60
primary education
Total Baseline Cost                                     196.00         1.20       197.20
Physical Contingencies                                  15.40         0.20        15.60
Price Contingencies                                      1.90         0.00         1.90
Total Project Costs            213.30         1.40       214.70
Total Financing Required            213.30          1.40       214.70
Project Cost By     :   - ;;   X -  ':.
Works                                                     45.29          0.00         45.29
Goods                                                     32.22          1.40         33.62
Training and Consultants                                  53.69          0.00         53.69
Services                                                  82.10          0.00         82.10
Total ProjectCosts    213.30          1.40       214.70
Total Financing Required   213.30           1.40       214.70
-47 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Since this project is being proposed simultaneously with consideration by GOUP of a significant set of
reforms which will have substantial effects on both government revenues and the pattern of its
expenditures, the major focus in the econonnic and financial analysis undertaken has been on the fiscal
implications of the project. Further, the proposed project is the fourth of a series of Bank-supported
projects aimed at expanding and improving elementary education in the state. The three existing projects
will be completed during the implementation period of the proposed project and will result in additional
liabilities for the state. The impact of these could have some bearing on the ease with which GOUP's
required contributions to the project are macde. Finally, the addition of this project to the set of existing
projects will result in support having been given to 78 of UP's 84 districts. This, plus GOUP's intention to
restructure its expenditures, make it more inmportant to consider in some detail the levels of expenditures
which would be required to further carry forward the successes of these projects and to provide for the
universalization of a primary schooling of reasonable quality. This Annex is divided into two parts dealing
first with the financial implications to GOULP of the set of four education projects and second with the
financial implications of universalization of primary education.
Fiscal impact and financial sustainability of UPBEP I and II and DPEP IL UPDPEP III will be the
fourth primary education project supported by the Bank beginning with UPBEP I in 1993. UPBEP I and II
will end in March 2000 and DPEP II in December 2002. The proposed project is expected to be completed
by March 2005. Each project has two financial implications for the state: (i) GOUP contributions while it
is implemented; and (ii) the financing of recurrent liabilities once completed. For DPEP II, GOUP funds
15 percent of project cost overall. With reference to recurrent costs, however, the Bank's financing will be
on a declining basis. UPBEP I and II are outside of the DPEP centrally sponsored scheme and thus GOUP
is responsible for 13 percent and 21 percent of total costs respectively. The share of recurrent costs to be
funded by GOIP in the final year of these tvvo projects (1999/00) is 60 and 75 percent. The full annual
incremental liabilities of the two UPBEP projects combined have been estimated at Rs. 217 crores, those of
DPEP II (including four additional districts which will be funded by DPEP II till 2002 and then be part of
the proposed project) Rs. 79 crores, and of the proposed project, Rs. 110 crores.
The first row of Table 1 below aggregates the total state liabilities (during and after the implementation of
each project) by year. The second row, "net liabilities", shows the liabilities after taking into the account
the "savings" which will arise in the future thurough the intended replacement of retiring regular teachers by
para-teachers on much lower salaries. The net liabilities can then be compared to the incremental increases
in the budgetary allocation to basic education.
While calculating these projections, it was assumed that annual allocations to basic education would be
maintained at a constant proportion of the gross state domestic product - GSDP - (2.3 percent in the base
year 1998/99). However, not all of the annuaLl increment would be available to fund the state's project
liabilities. Real teacher salaries have been increasing by around 2 percent a year between pay awards as a
result of movement through pay scales. Since at least 90 percent of expenditures on basic education are for
salaries, annual budgetary increments of around 1.8 percent are required to finance these increases.
The growth of GSDP and allocations to basic education were projected by Bank staff under two scenarios:
(i) one of no fiscal reform (Status Quo Scenario) where the growth rate of GSDP was projected to fall
from 3.3 percent in 1998/99 to 2.4 percent in 2004/05; and (ii) another with fiscal reform (Reform
Scenario) where the growth rate of GSDP would reach 4.5 percent in 2004/05. The two scenarios and
- 48 -



their implications for incremental allocations to basic education, and consequently for the state's ability to
finance the liabilities of successive projects, are shown in Table 1.
Table 1
Uttar Pradesh: Sustainability of Project Liabilities
(in Rs. Million)
1999     2000  1 2001  1 2002  1 2003  1 2004           2005  1 2006
Base                              Projections
Year
Project Liabilities
Liabilities at Constant 1998/99 prices /a  920     1380     2430     2700      3210     3210      3560     4060
Net Libilities /b                                           1895      1905     2161     1912      2018     2278
Status Quo Scenario                                                                I
GSDP Growth Rate                           3.3      3.1       2.9      2.8      2.7       2.5      2.4       2.4
GSDP at SQS Growth Rate               1361739  1403953  1444668  1485118  1525217  1563347  1600867  1639288
Expenditure on Basic Education          31320   32291    33227    34158    35080    35957    36820    37704
Increments to Growth in Basic Education             971      936      930       922      877       863      884
Expenditure Required to Finance 2%                  581      598      615       631      647       663      679
Real Increase in Teachers' Salaries                                                            .
Net Increments to Expenditure on Basic              390      338      316       291      230       200      205
Education /c
Cummulative Net Increments to                                728     1044      1334     1564      1764     1969
Expenditure on Basic Education
Reform Scenario                                                                                          _ -
GSDP Growth Rate                           3.3      3.7       4.0      4.1      4.2       4.3      4.5       4.5
GSDP at RS Growth Rate                1361739  1412123  1468608  1528821  1593032  1661532  1736301  1814435
Expenditure on Basic Education          31320    32479    33778    35163    36640    38215    39935    41732
Increments to Growth in Basic Education            1159     1299      1385     1477     1576      1720     1797
Expenditure Required to Finance 2%                  585      608      633       660      688       719      751
Real Increase in Teachers' Salaries   ___
Net Increments to Expenditure on Basic              574      691       752      817      888      1001     1046
Education /c                         L        I
Cummulative Net Increments to                               1265     2017      2835     3722      4723     5769
Expenditure on Basic Education
Sustaining Liabilities
Status Quo Scenario                                        -1167      -862     -827      -348     -253     -309
Reform Scenario                       _                     -630       112      674     1810      2706     3491
/a Includes finances required to sustain project activities after project completion as well as GOUPs annual contribution to each project under
implementation.
/b " Net" liabilities take into account savings as a result of hiring para teachers, leading to a substantial decrease in the wage bill and the magnitude
of liabilities.
/c Growth of plan and non-plan expenditures net of the amount required to finance the annual 2% increase in teacher salaries.
Under both scenarios, plan and non-plan education expenditures have been projected at a constant
proportion (2.3 percent) of GSDP and then "netted" for the real increase of 2 percent per annum in teachers
salaries. The resources available to absorb the financial liabilities arising out of the various projects over
the next five years will be the total allocation to basic education net of the amount that will go to finance
the increase in the real wage bill for the existing stock of teachers. Under the Status Quo Scenario the
increments will not be sufficient over the entire period and the liabilities will require an additional allocation
of Rs. 80-100 crores in the first half of the project implementation period falling to Rs. 25-35 crores in the
-49 -



second half Under the Reform Scenario, an additional allocation would be required in 2000/01 only. More
important, the fiscal space available for quality improvement will be much higher as a result of an increase
in the growth rate of GSDP, and a resultant increase of growth rate of the allocation to basic education. It
may be noted that the financial burden of the projects is considerably lower than it would have been had the
state not decided to appoint para-teachers henceforth.
The ability to financially sustain the existing and proposed projects needs to be viewed in a wider context.
The liabilities described are the minimum requirement for state government funding. They do not allow for
any expansion of schools or teachers outside of the project districts or for any further increases in quality.
Further, the appointment of para-teachers to fill vacancies will require that part of the savings from the
salary bill be invested across the state to improve the training of these underqualified teachers and develop
support systems for them. In addition, the VECs and PRIs across the state will also require training to
efficiently discharge their new responsibilities under the recent initiative of decentralizing school
management to this level of government Availability of fiscal space to implement these activities, in
addition to simply paying the teacher wage bill, is therefore essential for sustaining the projects which will
shortly be completed. The macro-economic buoyancy of state revenues projected to arise from the fiscal
reforms under consideration would make it more likely that project benefits would be sustained.
Universalizing primary education in UP. IJP is one of India's poorest and educationally most
underdeveloped states. Beginning in 1993, t-he state has been implementing three Bank-supported projects -
two across elementary education (classes 1 to 8) and one limited to primary education (classes 1 to 5).
These projects have increased access to primary education and improved state and district level capacity to
manage the delivery of primary education. However, much remains to be done if the objective of
universalizing is to be achieved. The 1995/96 National Sample Survey describes the gross attendance ratio
in primary schooling in UP as 80 percent with just 61 percent of the 6-10 years age group being in school.
This section describes the physical and financial requirements beyond those currently planned, for the
universalization of primary schooling by the end of two time horizons - 2005 and 2008 - and the
implications of those requirements for the state's public fnances. A model based on the demographic
profile of Uttar Pradesh, describing in some detail the physical and financial requirements to universalize
primary education was constructed. The details of assumptions and other parameters used are described
below.
Enrolments. The projection of the growth in school enrolments required to attain universalization of the
6-10 year age group in primary schooling by 2005 and 2008 - required the estimation of:
(i) The 6-10 year age group from 1998 to 2005 and 2008. The 1991 population was projected
forward through the period on the assumption that the population growth rate, which remained
constant 1971-1991, would continue unchanged. Applying the current birth rate to the total
population over time, and applying the current child mortality rate, provided estimates of the 6-10
year old cohort for each year between 1998 and 2008;
(ii) The number of currently under- and over-age children in primary grades. The share of
under- and over-age children in primary school enrollments was estimated from the recent
Education Management Information System returns for DPEP II districts to be 20 percent. In the
projections, it was assumed that the share of this group of children in total enrolments would be
reduced to 5 percent by the year of universalization; and
(iii) Enrollment in private, both unaided and unrecognized schools. According to the NSS
1995/96, almost 25 percent of enrolments in recognized schools were in private schools with an
- 50 -



additional 10 percent in unrecognized schools. As government schools expand and improve under
the current and proposed set of projects, it is assumed that the share of enrolments will fall. In the
projections, it was assumed that 30 percent of total enrolments in primary schooling would be in
private schools throughout the period of analysis, with the rest in Parishad schools.
Teachers
(iv) Three sets of teacher estimates were made on the assumptions of pupil teacher ratios of 40: 1,
45:1 and 50: 1;
(v) The teacher attrition rate was assumed to be 2 percent a year on a 1998 base of 278,000
teachers. In accordance with GOUP's recently articulated new teacher employment policy, it was
assumed that para-teachers would replace all retiring regular teachers in the forseeable future. All
additional teachers required for reducing the pupil teacher ratio from the current level of 54:1 to
50:1, 45:1 and 40:1, and those required for providing for additional enrolments were also assumed
to be para teachers; and
(vi) In calculating the financial requirements of the teaching force, it was assumed that in the base
year, a regular teacher's emoluments would be Rs. 6,000 per month for 12 months and that a
para-teacher would draw a salary of Rs. 1,450 per month for 11 months. The salary of a regular
teacher was assumed to grow at the rate of 2 percent per annum in real terms. The monthly salary
of para-teachers was assumed to increase by Rs. 200 every two years throughout the time period
analyzed.
Other recurring inputs
(vii) Teacher training was estimated at Rs. 600 per teacher per annum; and
(viii) Grants to teachers for preparing low-cost teaching TLM were estimnated at Rs. 500 per
teacher per annum.
Capital expenditure
(ix) The number of additional classrooms required to provide adequate places for universalization
was calculated and the annual growth spread over the relevant time periods. Separate estimates
were made assuming one classroom per 40, 45 and 50 children. The cost of one classroom was
taken as Rs. 70,000. In practice, 60 percent of the cost of classrooms and schools comes from the
EAS and JRY funds. However, even though only 40 percent of the cost of construction comes
from the Education budget, since the balance 60 percent of the construction cost will still have to
be met by GOUP, albeit under a different expenditure head in the budget, the full cost of
construction (100 percent) has been built into the model.
Financial requirements for universalization. Both the recurrent and capital expenditures required to
universalize schooling by 2005 and 2008 were aggregated for each year from 1999. The results are shown
in Table 2. With 2005 as the target year for universalization, the requirement in that year is estimated to be
roughly Rs. 31 billion at constant 1999 prices which implies an average growth rate of 8.7 percent. With
2008 as the target year, the final year's requirement falls by almost Rs. I billion. Details of the
calculations are in the project files.
- 51 -



Table 2
Uttar Pradesh: Financial Requirements for Universalizing Primary Education
(in Rs. Million)
1999              2001       20021   20031   20041   20051   20061   20071   2008
Base                                      Projections
Year
Universalization
By 2005                                   _                                               .
Teachers                                   _
Salaries
With PTR 40:1      20016   20652   21545   22668    23959   25984   28075
With PTR 45:1      20016   20558   21322   22257    23448   24898   26722
With PTR 50:1      20016   20468   21166   22005   23001    24182   25637
Training                                   _
With PTR 40:1        167       188     21,B     254       295      360      425
With PTR 45:1        167       184     210       239      277      322      378
With PTR 50:1        167       181     204      230       261      296      340
Grants for TLMs                            _                                _
WithPTR 40:1                   156      182      212      246      300      354
WithPTR45:1    _               153      175      199      231      268      315
With PTR 50:1                 151       170      192      218      247      283
Classrooms         ____    ___,
With PTR 40:1                2045     3572,    4198      4791     5632     9512
With PTR 45:1                1632    3006    3991        3868     5183     6559
With PTR 50:1                1431     2745    3357       3695     3850     4751
Total                                      _ .__
With PTR 40:1               23042   25513   27332   29292   32276   38366                 _
With PTR 45:1               22528    24713   26687   27824   30670   33974
With PTR 50:1               22230   24284   25784   27175   28575   31012
Universalization
by 2008                                                                 _
Teachers                             ____      ____    ____
Salaries
With PTR 40:1      20016   20319    20870   21622   22466   23464   24507   25790    27263    28965
With PTR 45:1      20016   20319   20870   21512   22213   23015   23981   24964    26081    27517
With PTR 50:1      20016   20319   20822    21405   22029   22739   23585    24427   25374   26387
Training
With PTR 40:1        167       175      193     217       243      272      302      339      384      435
With PTR 45:1        167       175      193     213       233      256      283      311      343       387
With PTR 50:1        167       175      191     209       227      246      270      293      319      348
Grants for TLMs             _                                                                        __I_I
With PTR 40:1                 146       161      181      202      227      251      283      320       362
With PTR 45:1                  146      161      177      194      213      236      259      286       322
With PTR 50:1                 146       159      174      189      205      225      244      266       290
Classrooms                                               ___                                         __
With PTR 40:1                 967     2571      2924     2589    2847      4234    4502      5363      4886
With PTR 45:1                 967     2121      2342     2464    2707      3281    3305      3825     4232
With PTR 50:1                 967      1902    2074      1883    2296      2467     2693     3089      3364
- 52 -



Total
WithPTR40:1                  21606|  237951   249441  254991   26811|  292951   30913|  333351   34649
With PTR 45:1               21606   23345   24243   25105   26191   27782   28839   30534   32458
With PTR 50:1               21606   23075   23862   24328   25486   26546   27656   29048   30389
These estimates are based on the cost-reducing policy measures being undertaken by the state. For
instance, appointing para-teachers, instead of regular teachers, alone reduces the salary bill threefold, thus
reducing considerably the recurrent expenditure for universalizing primary education. Further, the state is
considering the implementation, on a pilot basis, of four different models of double shifting that could
potentially reduce the capital expenditure required to achieve universalization of primary education. These
measures would reduce the unit cost of providing primary education. The financial requirements for
universalization would have been much higher had these reductions in unit costs not been considered.
Fiscal implications of universalizing primary education. In order to estimate the fiscal implications of
meeting the financial requirement for universalizing primary schooling in UP, an assumption was made that
allocations to the sector would grow at the same rate as the overall growth of the economy, and
consequently that the share of basic education in GSDP would remain constant at 2.3 percent. The growth
of GSDP has been projected by Bank staff on the basis of two contrasting scenarios of the levels and
patterns of government finances - a no-reform and a reform scenario. The implications for educational
allocations and for the financing gap resulting from the requirements of the universalization of primary
schooling are shown in Table 3.
Table 3
Uttar Pradesh: Financing Gaps for Universalization of Primary Education
(in Rs. Million)
1999     2000  l 2001  l 2002  l 2003  l 2004  l 2005
Base                           Projections
Year
Financial Requirements for                          22230    24284    25784    27175    28575    31012
Universalization /a
Status Quo Scenario
GSDP Growth Rate                             3.3       3.1       2.9      2.8       2.7       2.5       2.4
GSDP at SQS Growth Rate                  1361739  1403953  1444668  1485118  1525217  1563347  1600867
Allocation to Basic Education /b           31320    32291    33227    34158    35080    35957    36820
Allocation to Primary Education /c                  19375    19936    20495    21048    21574    22092
Reform Scenario
GSDP Growth Rate                             3.3       3.7       4.0      4.1       4.2       4.3       4.5
GSDP at SQS Growth Rate                  1361739  1412123  1468608  1528821  1593032  1661532  1736301
Allocation to Basic Education /b           31320    32479    33778    35163    36640    38215    39935
Allocation to Primary Education /c                   19487    20267    21098    21984    22929    23961
Financing Gaps for lJniversalization
In Status Quo Scenaio                                2856      4348      5289      6127      7001     8920
In Reform Scenario                                   2743      4018      4686      5191      5646     7051
/a Assumning pupil:teacher ratio and pupil:classroom ratio of 50:1.
/b Calculated at 2.3% of GSDP.
/c Calculated at 60% of allocation to basic education.
The no-reform scenario. Under this scenario, the growth rate of GSDP is projected to fall from 3.3
percent in 1998/99 to 2.4 percent in 2004/05. If GSDP were to grow at these rates, the share of elementary
- 53 -



education to GSDP were to be maintained in each year at 2.3 percent, and primary education were to
continue to receive 60 percent of this allocation, then the resources available for primary education in 2005
would be around Rs. 22,100 million. As described above, universalization by 2005 would require around
Rs. 31,000 million in that year. This implies an addition of Rs. 8,900 million to the primnary education
allocation which would be equivalent to 0.6 percent of GSDP. If the resulting increased pupil flows into
upper primary schooling were also to be fjianced under current teaching arrangements, an additional 0.4
percent of GSDP would be required raising the overall requirement for elementary education from the
current 2.3 percent to 3.3 percent of GSDP.
The reform scenario. Implementation of the combination of fiscal reforms outlined by Bank staff is
projected to lead to higher rates of growth of GSDP in the medium term, reaching around 4.5 percent in
2005. If these reforms are implemented and the anticipated levels of economic growth do result, additional
expenditures of about Rs. 7,000 million, over and above those that would maintain the share in GSDP,
would still be required to universalize primary schooling (Table 2). In 2005 this amount would be
equivalent to about 0.4 percent of the higher level of GSDP. Again, there would be knock-on effects of a
rapidly expanding primary sub sector on upper primary schooling in this case equivalent of around 0.2
percent of GSDP. If the share of primary to basic education were to remain constant at 60 percent, then the
allocation to elementary education would haeve to increase to 2-3 percent of the higher GSDP in the Reform
scenario. Summarizing, the financing of universal primary schooling by 2005 could be achieved through
implementing the state's public finance reform package and increasing the share of basic education in
GSDP from the current 2.3 percent to 2.7 percent, and to around 3 percent if the demands on the upper
primary system are also met.
The above calculations demonstrate that in addition to the increase in resources which would result directly
from the higher level of GSDP following the fiscal reforms, a larger share of GSDP, and of government
expenditures, will need to be allocated to elementary education if universalization of primary schooling is to
be achieved in the near future. This can be achieved through a number of (not mutually exclusive) avenues
including:
(i) Increasing total budgetary allocation to education. An increase in the total amount allocated
'to education by 2004/05 by the equivalent of around 0.4 percent of GSDP would be required. This
would imply increasing the share of basic education in total government expenditure from the
current 1 1.2 percent to 13.1 percenit and the share of education overall from 19.5 percent to 22.8
percent.
(ii) Reallocating expenditures within the education budget. Part of the additional resources
required for basic education may become available through intra-sectoral changes in allocations
within the education sector. Decreasing the rate of growth of allocations to secondary and higher
education below the rate of growth of the economy would generate 'savings' within the education
budget that could be used to fund, in part, the universalization of primary schooling. GOUP is
currently considering such changes in particular by maintaining government support only at the
current (nominal) level to private aided schools and colleges which provide education beyond
elementary (grade VIII) level. These schools and colleges cater for roughly 52 percent of all
students at these levels. If implemented, this policy would decrease expenditures on post
elementary education as a share of both government expenditure and GSDP.
Caveat. The adoption of the policy to employ para-teachers in all new teaching posts and to fill vacancies
in existing posts will have significant effects on the marginal unit costs of educating additional pupils and
small but ever increasing effects on the average unit cost. Payments to newly recruited para-teachers will
- 54 -



be 26 percent of the first year salary of regular teachers. Since 1993, the state has experimented with many
school and classroom designs in order to find the most cost-effective model of construction. The estimates
of financial requirements have taken into account cost-reducing policies such as the use of para-teachers
and cost-effective school design. To the extent that these policies are not implemented, the financial
requirements for universalizing primary education by 2005 would be considerably more than the Rs. 31
billion estimated for the final year.
- 55 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Operational Period (Costs in US$ Million, Including Contingencies)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
2000-2001   2001-2002   2002-2003   2003-2004   2004-2005
Project Costs (Including Contingencies)  _
Investment Costs                         26.3        25.1         36.6        35.0          9.6
Recurrent Costs                          19.3         19.9        19.9         19.5         3.5
Total                                    45.6        45.0         56.5        54.5         13.1
Financing Sources (% of Total Costs)   _                                 _ _
IDA                                      90%         90%          83%         81%          77%
Government of India                      10%          10%         17%          19%         23%
Total                                    100%        100%        100%         100%         100%
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Procurement
Procurement arrangements. The procurement arrangements to be undertaken by the proposed project
will be the responsibility of the implementing agency, the Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Shiksha
Pariyojana Parishad (State Implementation Society-SIS). The SIS will be responsible for all procurement
activities in all the project districts either directly or through the hiring of procurement agents or
consultants to assist it.
Civil Works (US$45.29 million). The civil works program encompasses the construction of 2,795 new
primary schools, the rehabilitation of 3,256 existing primary schools (for a total of 6,051 primary school
buildings), 12,271 additional classrooms, 1,859 rooms for ECCE, 15,589 toilets, 5,770 drinking water
units, 426 BRCs and 4,130 NPRCs, the repair of 9,015 existing school buildings, the construction of a
DPEP Cell in SCERT and a library for SIEMAT. The base cost of civil works is US$36.9 million. The
cost of construction of a primary school is expected to be approximately US$4,100, of which US$1,640
will be financed from the Credit (the remaining 60 percent of total construction costs comes from
non-project district-based and centrally sponsored convergence fund schemes). The approximate unit cost
of an additional classroom is US$600, an NPRC is US$600 and a BRC is US$17,000 respectively. The
average cost of repairing and/or reconstructing existing school buildings is expected to be US$1,640.
Toilets and drinking water facilities will be provided at a unit cost of US$215 and US$473, respectively.
Construction of school buildings and additional classrooms forms a large proportion of the civil works
program. In the context of decentralization and in congruency with other DPEP Bank-financed projects,
the construction and repair of schools and classrooms will be undertaken by the VPs (PRIs). Therefore,
ICB and NCB will not be suitable for these works. Further, the remote locations of construction sites and
low-cost of these civil works requires such works to be procured under: (a) direct contracting; (b)
comparison of price quotations from at least three qualified contractors eligible under the guidelines; (c)
unit/piece rate systems through qualified contractors; or by (d) force account as a last resort. However,
force account will be limited to five percent of civil works costs. NCB will be appropriate for a few
construction activities that are valued at more than US$20,000, such as construction of the BRCs, the
DPEP Cell in SCERT and the library building in SIEMAT. The first NCB contract for works, regardless
of value, will be subject to Prior Review.
Goods (US$33.62 million). This procurement category includes equipment, vehicles and books.
Procurement of equipment would be phased on an annual basis in accordance with the requirement of the
project activities. Phasing of the procurement of equipment and furniture will be closely sequenced with
the civil works program. Items to be procured include computers, furniture for schools, DIETs, BRCs and
NPRCs, office equipment, etc. The base cost of equipment and furniture for the project is expected to be
US$5.7 million. Since the value of most of the items to be procured under equipment and furniture is
expected to be below US$30,000, these will be procured under National Shopping. NCB will be used for
the procurement of items such as computer hardware, software and allied equipment valued at more than
US$30,000. Direct contracting for contracts less than US$5,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$300,000 equivalent will be used to procure, inter-alia, sitting mats for schools from local women
producers. Procurement of vehicles required for the SPO, the 19 Divisional Project Office, the DPOs, the
State Institution of Education and the DIETs will be done through National Shopping (DGS&D rate
contracts are acceptable under National Shopping). The project will finance the purchase of books for: (i)
- 57 -



girls, SC and ST children attending regular schools or AS modalities; (ii) peripatetic teachers; (iii) school
book banks for other poor children; (iv) ECCE; and (v) augmenting the libraries in the DIETs, DPOs,
BRCs and NPRCs. Since the recipient facilities of these books are geographically spread out across the
state and the value of each purchase is very low, National Shopping and direct contracting will be used for
procurement as appropriate. Provision of textbooks will be decentralized to district levels to facilitate the
widespread logistics of the textbook component. While the overall cost of free textbooks to the selected
group of students is large in the aggregate, with 42 districts involved over 5 years, the average cost of
textbooks purchased annually in each district would be approximately US$83,000 per year - and this
amount itself is split into several smaller units covering multiple grades and subjects. The existing policy in
vogue under the ongoing DPEP II Project of adopting competitive bidding to select local Printers for
printing and selling the textbooks would continue in the new Project for consistency within the State's
District Primary Education Program, and as an exceptional case considered and approved by the RPA.
Given that the prices are fixed and there is no better alternative available, direct contracting would be the
logical mode of Procurement.
Services (US$53.69 million). The project will fund services required for project preperation and
implementation such as training, workshops and seminars. In addition, services of consultants, both
individuals and firms, will also be required to conduct studies such as those pertaining to classroom
observation, mid-term evaluations, etc., dur ing the course of the project cycle. IDA will reimburse 100
percent of the project expenditures on these services.
Incremental operating costs (US$82.10 million). These would be financed on a declining basis and
would cover salaries of agreed incremental positions (para-teachers, AS and EGS instructors, ECCE
facilitators, etc., - US$62 million), expenses incurred by schools and teachers for school facility
improvement and teaching and learning materials, operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles,
hiring cost of vehicles, office expenses and consumables such as telephone, stationary, etc.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Bank-financed works and goods will be procured using the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits of January 1995, revised January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Services will be procured using the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The procurement methods
applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A below. For procurement under
the project, the Bank's standard bid documents shall be used.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost cver US$20,000 equivalent will be carried out following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Each contract estimated to cost
equivalent to US$20,000 or less will be procured following procedures acceptable to the Bank: (a) direct
contracting; (b) under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors; (c) unit/piece rate
system through qualified contractors, or registered NGOs, or other beneficiary associations; or (d) through
Force Account, as last resort.
Contracts for the purchase of goods valued at more than US$300,000 equivalent each would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Contract for the purchase of goods valued more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000 may be
awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Items or groups of items valued
US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures.
- 58 -



Other items or small groups of items such as supply of furniture, equipment and books valued at less than
US$5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct contracting or national shopping
procedures.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the Loan/Credit under the project would follow procedures
satisfactory to the Bank/Association, which are:
(1)    Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task
Force (and as amended from time to time), shall be used for bidding.
(2)    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids.
(3)    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
(4)    Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of
price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(5)    Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the GOUP and
EFAPB, extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
Bank/Association: (a) for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and
(b) for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period.
(6)    Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association.
The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall
not be used.
(7)    Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under national
shopping procedures.
Contracts for maintenance of equipment and vehicles may be awarded through: (a) direct contracting; or
(b) national shopping procedures
- 59 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
'LUS$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           9.06           36.23          0.00           45.29
(0 00)         (8.19)        (32.76)         (0.00)        (40.95)
2. Goods                            0~'00           0.25          33.37          0.00           33.62
(0. 00)        (0.20)        (31.82)         (0.00)        (32.02)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          53.69          0.00           53.69
(0.00)         (0.00)        (53.69)         (0.00)        (53.69)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          82.10           0.00          82.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (55.74)         (0.00)        (55.74)
Total                            0.00            9.31         205.39          0.00          214.70
(0.00)         (8.39)        (174.01)        (0.00)        (182.40)
'l Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 60 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
ct)1suitait       :Sin   M0ttl                                     ._
Seriices
Expenditkure    Q;S5   1S             SFB       LAS        cQ        Other     N.F.F.   Total -'
Category     _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _                                               _  _ _
A. Firms            14.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      21.79      0.00       0.00      35.79
(14.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (21.79)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (35.79)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      17.90      0.00       17.90
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (17.90)    (0.00)    (17.90)
Total   14.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      21.79      17.90      0.00       53.69
l______________  (14.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.00)    (21.79)    (17.90)    (0.00)    (53.69)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS - Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review will be required for: (a) all contracts for goods with an estimated value of more than
US$300,000 equivalent; (b) all contracts for works with an estimated value of more than US$300,000
equivalent as well as the first NCB contract each for goods and works regardless of the value; (c)
consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more
for individuals; and (d) the Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$12,000 or more per contract in the case of firms, and the equivalent of US$5,000 or more per
contract in the case of individuals.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value              Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
Category                (Threshold)                                   Review/Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
Civil      Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
Works       US$20,000 or less per contract, up-to an aggregate
not exceeding US$36,230,000 may be executed by:
(i) Direct Contracting upto an aggregate not    Direct Contracting  Post Review only
exceeding US$1,800,000;
- 61 -



(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of 3 Bids   Post Review only
quotations obtained from at least three qualified
contractors eligible under the guidelines; or
(iii) Unit/piece rate systems through qualified  Rate Contract  Post Review only
contractors or Registered NGOs, other beneficiary
associations, or Village Panchayats; or
(iv) By Force Account as a last resort up to an  Force Account  Post Review only
aggregate not exceeding US$2,260,000, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
(v) Civil works estimated to cost irore than the National Competitive   First works contract under NCB
equivalent of US$20,000 per contract.     Bidding (NCB)        regardless of value and all
contracts above US$300,000 by
prior review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
All others by post review.
Goods
(a) Furniture (i) US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an  National Shopping  Post Review only
& Equipment aggregate not exceeding US$5,860,000      Procedures (includes
equivalent.                               DGS&D Rate
Contracts).
(ii) US$5,000 or less per contract, up to an  Direct Contracting  Post Review only
aggregate not exceeding US$300,000
equivalent.
(b) Books   (i) Equal or less than US$30,000 per contract,  National Shopping  Post Review only
up to an aggregate not exceeding US$8,260,000 Procedures
equivalent.
(ii) Equal or less than US$5000 per contract, up Direct Contracting  Post Review only
to an aggregate not exceeding US$17,400,000
equivalent.
(c) Vehicles US$ 100,000 or less per contract, up to an  National Shopping  Post Review only
aggregate not exceeding US$1,550,000      Procedures (includes
equivalent.                               DGS&D Rate
Contracts).
(d)         Goods estimated to cost more than the     National Competitive   First goods contract under NCB
equivalent of US$30,000 per contract.     Bidding (NCB)        regardless of value and all
contracts above US$300,000 by
prior review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
All others by post review.
-62 -



Services     (i) More than US$200,000 per contract.     Quality- and Cost-Based Prior Review of all consultant
Procurement                                             Selection (QCBS)      contracts shall be governed by
agent,                                                                        the provisions of paragraphs (i),
research                                                                      (ii), (iii) and (iv) below:
contracts,
professional                                                                  (i) With respect to each
services,                                                                     contract for the employment of
NGO                                                                           consulting firms estimated to
contracts,                                                                    cost the equivalent of
training,                                                                     US$200,000 or more, the
workshops                                                                     procedures set forth in
and                                                                           paragraphs 1, 2 [other than the
fellowships.  (ii) US$200,000 or less per contract.     Quality- and Cost-Based third sub-paragraph of
Selection (QCBS) With paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Short List (could     Appendix 1 to the Consulatnt
comprise entirely of    Guidelines shall apply.
national consultants)
(ii) With respect to each
contract for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more but less
than the equivalent of
US$200,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 [other
than the second sub-paragraph
of paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consulatnt
Guidelines shall apply.
- 63 -



(iii) US$100,000, or less per contract.     (i) Quality- and Cost-  (iii) With respect to each
Based Selection (QCBS) contract for the employment of
With Short List (could  individual consultants
comprise entirely of    estimated to cost the equivalent
national consultants)   of US$50,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience,
(ii) Selection-Based on  terms of reference and terms of
Consultant's          employment of the consultants
Qualification (CQ);    shall be furnished to the
Association for its prior review
(iii) Single Source   and approval. The contract
Selection for US$1,000  shall be awarded only after the
or less per contract  said approval has been given.
(acceptable for tasks
representing a natural  (iv) Terms of Reference for all
continuation of       consultant contracts estimated
assignment, when rapid to cost the equivalent of
selection is essential,   US$12,000 or more per contract
when only one firm is  in the case of firms, and the
qualified, or for small  equivalent of US$5,000 or more
assigmnents)          per contract in the case of
individuals shall be furnished to
Individual Consultants  the Association for its prior
in accordance with the  review and approval. The
provisions of paragraph contract shall be awarded only
(iv) US$10,000, or less per contract       5.1 to 5.3 of the     after the said approval has been
Consultants Guidelines  given.
All other cases: Post Review
Miscellaneous
Incremental  Incremental operating costs, expenses incurred                    Post Review
operating    on teaching learning materials and school                         only
costs.       facility improvement, maintenence and hiring of
vehicles and maintenance of equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or                  Post Review
less per contract, up to an aggregate not                         only
exceeding US$15,400,000 may be executed by:
(i) Direct contracting up to an aggregate not    Direct Contracting
exceeding US$13,160,000; or
(ii) On the basis of price quotations obtained    National Shopping
from at least three qualified suppliers eligible   Procedures
under the Guidelines.            _
- 64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Financial management system. The SPO will develop and implement a comprehensive computerized
project financial management system (PFMS). Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) of the project would
be generated from the PFMS. The PFMS would include: (i) funds flow process; (ii) detailed accounting
system (including the Chart of Accountants; format of books, vouchers and statements; formats of financial
reports; linkages between the Chart of Accounts and financial reports; inputs of budget and other data; and
data capture, information flow and processing); (iii) internal control mechanisms; (iv) financial and
accounting policies and procedures; (v) budgeting and forecasting system; (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii)
organization and staffing including job responsibilities of key staff; and (viii) service standards
(benchmarks) for various accounting and financial activities.
Assessment of the current financial management system. The SPO has gained considerable experience
and strengths in the financial management of UPBEP I and TI and DPEP II including: (i) a good budgeting
and accounting system that has been established and is fully operational; (ii) qualified and trained staff to
carry out basic accounting functions; and (iii) a system of periodic computerized reporting from districts to
the state level that has been established for the current Bank-financed projects. There is, however, scope
for improvement including the need to ensure: (iv) further analysis of the financial information (reports and
statements) and use of the findings as a project management tool for decision-making purposes; (v) data
integrity; (vi) further computerization of the information which currently is being generated and operated
manually; (vi) strengthening of the project-related internal audit system and increasing the focus on audits
of the VECs, NPRCs and BRCs where a significant portion of the expenditure is incurred; (vii) the linking
of physical progress with financial progress; and (viii) intensive training of secretaries of VPs on
maintenance of books of account.
Budgeting and flow of funds. GOI would pass on World Bank funds to the UPDPEP III SIS through
banking channels. GOUP will pass on it's 15 percent share of total project cost through a budgetary
allocation under a single identifiable line item. The SIS, which is a registered society, would receive funds
against this allocation. The SPO of the SIS will retain part of the funds for payments on activities
managed directly by the SPO, and pass on funds to all the DPOs through banking channels. The amounts
passed on to each DPO would be on the basis of their cash flow forecasts (which in turn would be based on
their approved AWPBs). It is expected that the transfer of funds from the SPO to the DPOs would be on a
quarterly basis. DPOs would utilize the funds for payments on activities managed directly by the DPO and
for expenditures and advances for BRCs, NPRCs and Village Panchayats (VPs), as explained below.
DPOs will provide advances to the respective BRCs, NPRCs and VPs through banking channels based on
the approved activities at those levels as reflected in the district-based AWPBs. Subsequent payments will
be based on the reported expenditure for the quarter and projected expenditure for the next quarter. This
design of the funds release mechanism will take into account the objectives of ensuring that there is
sufficient amount of funds available at these levels while at the same time ensuring that internal controls
are maintained and that amounts are being promptly and regularly accounted for. The Bank accounts of
BRCs would be operated by a BRC Facilitator, the NPRCs by a NPRC Facilitator and at the VP, jointly
by the Chairman and the Member Secretary of the VP. These payments can be to suppliers, consultants,
staff, etc., based on approved activities as appearing in the corresponding district-based AWPB. These
payments would be supported by standard documentation.
Accounting and internal controls. Books of accounts for the project would be maintained using
double-entry bookkeeping principles. Standard books of accounts (cash and bank books, journals, ledgers,
-65 -



etc.) would be maintained at the SPO and DPO levels using an integrated computerized accounting system.
A Chart of Accounts would be developed to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure
center, budget heads, project components, expenditure categories, and disbursement categories. This would
match closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project
documents (PIP and the Project Cost Tables). Computerized accounting for BRCs, NPRCs and VPs in
each district would be done at the respective DPO. The accounting records (sub-ledgers) at the DPO level
would provide details of accounts of the various BRCs, NPRCs and VPs, becoming an important tool for
monitoring the amounts advanced to and expenditures incurred on these levels of project implementation.
No books of accounts will be maintained at the BRCs, NPRCs, and VPs other than for basic reporting of
expenditure. The vouchers generated at all these levels would be retained at the point of their origin.
Transaction information flow and accounting:
(i)    The SPO and DPO will generate and maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts
and expenditures made at SPO and DPO level, respectively (including at the DPO level, for
amounts advanced by DPO to the BRCs, NPRCs and VPs);
(ii)    Each BRC, NPRC and VP would generate the transaction vouchers for receipts and payments
made by it on various activities. At the BRC level, the BRC Facilitator will record the transactions
mainly bank receipts and payments. At the NPRC level it will be done by the NPRC facilitator.
At VP level this will be done by the member secretary of the VP. There will be a systematic
recording of expenses under different schemes operated by a VP under directions from various
government departments and a systematic filing of the supporting documentation for the
transactions. There is an urgent need of intensive training to be imparted to the secretaries of VPs
as this functionary will be handling considerable resources received from multiple sources and will
be expected to account for all funds received and expended. A simple accounting manual should
also be prepared to assist this person in orderly and systematic maintenance of accounts. At the
time of submission of monthly account statement to the district, at the DPOs, these monthly
accounts statements would be approved/authorized after being correctly classified for account
heads (based on the Chart of Accounts), and entered into the computerized accounting system.
This would enable generation of the sub-ledger giving the details of the accounts of each unit;
(iii)   Consolidation of the project accounts at the SPO would be done by consolidation of accounts of
the SPO and all the DPOs, which would be done by the computerized system. Data transfer would
be handled through either diskette transfer from the DPOs to the SPO or through an integrated
computer network.
Internal controls: Internal control mechanismns include the following:
(i)   the establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets;
(ii)   adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which govern financial
management of and accounting for the project; and
(iii)   at the transaction level, policies, procedures and systems developed for ensuring standard internal
controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliations, physical verification, etc.
- 66 -



Financial reporting. Project Financial Statements and Project Financial Management Reports would be
generated from the project accounting system. The main objective of the financial management reports is
to provide project management with timely information on various financial aspects, and thereby serve as
an active project management tool. The SPO and the DPOs would generate quarterly financial
management reports from the integrated computerized PFMS for the whole project, including the state and
district project components. These reports would be management-oriented, including summaries rather
than transactional details. The reports would include: (i) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure
and analysis of major variances, including on sources and application of funds (by components and
summarized expenditure categories) and on key physical parameters; and (ii) forecasts for the next two
quarters. These reports and the Withdrawal Application (which would based on the financial forecasts and
actual expenditures classified by disbursement category) would also be used by the Bank for quarterly
disbursements in accordance with the disbursement procedures under LACI. During appraisal, agreement
was reached with GOUP and the proposed UPDPEP III SPO, that the first set of PMR formats will be
submitted to the Bank by May 15, 2001.
Staffing. The most important requirement for an effective financial management of the project is the
appointment of qualified staff at key levels. The financial and accounting team for the project would be
headed by a Financial Controller located in the SPO, who has already been appointed and has taken charge.
The Financial Controller would have overall responsibility for the financial management aspects of the
project and would report to the Project Director for the project. At each of the DPOs, the finance function
would be headed bv an Assistant Accounts Officer (AAO) with about 4 to 5 years experience, including
suitable experience in modem accounting and financial practices. The AAO will be fully responsible for all
financial and accounting aspects at the DPO level and below, and would report functionally to the Financial
Controller, and administratively to the District Project Coordinator. The AAOs for all the participating
districts have been identified and selected and will be formally appointed within 30 days of the signing of
the credit agreement (their names where provided to the Bank appraisal team). Both the SPO and the
DPOs would have appropriate number of accountants and account clerks to carry out the various routine
activities under the direction of the key professional staff indicated above. The number of these staff would
be determined based on the quantum of activity. To promote efficiency and maintain a lean organization,
all routine activities relating to generation of books of accounts, compilation, preparation of financial
reports, etc., would be handled through the computerized financial management system to the maximum
extent possible.
Auditing arrangements. The purpose of the audit would be to: (i) provide an independent confirmation to
project management and to the Bank on the accuracy of financial statements and working of internal
controls; and (ii) supplement the internal control mechanism. The Accounts of the Project will be audited
by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) and also by a firm of Chartered Accountants. The
annual project financial statements audited by the firm of Chartered Accountants would be submitted
within six months of the close of GOI's fiscal year (as required under the Bank's operational policies).
This audit report will be monitored in the Bank's Audit Report Compliance System (ARCS). The Terms of
Reference (TORs) of the firm of Chartered Accountants would include a concurrent audit which would
strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit. Since a
significant portion of the expense will be made at the VPs, NPRCs and BRCs levels, the TORs drawn up
for the auditors would be oriented towards a strong emphasis on the audit of these units involving site
visits. The auditors would carry out such tests and controls as deemed necessary by them. In accordance
with the Bank's operational policies, the TORs and qualifications of the firm of Chartered Accountants
would be reviewed by the Bank. The firm of Chartered Accountants has already been selected but the
approval of the Bank for the TORs will be taken before the start of the project. There have not been any
major qualifications or significant delays in submissions of audit reports by the SIS for UPBEP I and II
-67 -



and DPEP II.
Readiness for implementation of the PFMS and next steps. An agreement has been reached with the
SPO on the form and content of the PMRs. The successful implementation of the PFMS will entail the
following key activities: (a) procurement of necessary hardware at the state and district levels, expected to
be completed by February 28, 2000; (b) staffing of certain key positions, expected to be completed by
April 30, 2000; (c) development of a software for the PFMS implementation, expected to be completed by
August 31, 2000; and (d) training of staff on PFMS operations, expected to be completed by December 31,
2000. The computerised PFMS is expectec to be fully operational by December 31, 2000.
Retroactive Financing. During negotiations agreement was reached with GOI and GOUP that retroactive
financing up to an amount of US$1 million equivalent (SDR 0.75 0 million) would be made on account of
payments for expenditures covering salaries of project personnel at the SPO, project preparation studies
(BASs and SASs), consultants, training, serninars and workshops, and procurement of computers made
before the signing of the Credit but after February 1, 1999.
- 68 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in US$           Financing Percentage
Million
Civil Works                               36.9                      90%
Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles          5.7       100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Books                                     23.3                      100%
Training, Workshops, Fellowships and      50.0                      100%
Consultant Services
Incremental Operating Costs               51.0       80% of local expenditures incurred until
March 31, 2002; 60% of expenditures
incurred from April 1, 2002 until March
31, 2003; 55% of expenditures incurred
from April 1, 2003 until March 31, 2004;
and 25% of expenditures incurred
thereafter.
Unallocated                               15.5
Total                                     182.4
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for: (a) civil works under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (b) goods, other than
vehicles, under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (c) vehicles under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent; (d) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for employment of individual consultants
respectively; (e) training, workshops and fellowships; and (f) incremental operating costs, maintenance and
hiring of vehicles.
Special account:
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Govermnent of India (GOI). The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be US$12 million, which represents about 4 months of average annual
disbursements from the IDA Credit. However, the authorized allocation in the Special Account will be
limited to US$6 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Bank credit equals or exceeds
the equivalent of US$18 million (SDR 14 million). The Special Account authorized allocation will be
raised to US$24 million when the PMR-based disbursement procedure begins. The Special Account would
be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Tlhird District Primary Education Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  8                        9
First Bank mission (identification)      11/09/98                    11/09/98
Appraisal mission departure              07/05/99                    09/13/99
Negotiations                             09/20/99                    10/22/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            02/07/2000                  04/01/2000
Prepared by:
Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad (State Implementation Society)
Preparation assistance:
None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Juan Prawda                       Pr:incipal Education Specialist, Task Leader, SASED
Venita Kaul                       Education Specialist, co-Task Leader, SASED
Ward Heneveld                     Principal Education Specialist, India Team Leader, SASED
N. K. Jangira                     Senior Education Specialist, SASED
Keith Hinchliffe                  Principal Economist, SASED
Susan Hirshberg                   Education Specialist, SASED
Prema Clarke                      Education Specialist, SASED
Rie Hiraoka                       Social Development Specialist, SASHP
Rajat Narula                      Financial Management Specialist, SACIF
Santhanam Krishnan                Procurement Specialist, SACIF
Syed I. Ahmed                     Senior Counsel, LEGSA
Hiroko Imamura                    Senior Counsel, LEGSA
Kalpana Seethepalli               Operations Analyst, SASED
Sudesh Ponnappa                   Program Assistant, SASED
Gertrude Stubblefield             Team Assistant, SASED
Renu Gupta                        Team Assistant, SASED
Eduardo Velez-Bustillo            Principal Education Specialist, LCS1HD, Humar Resource Sector Leader
(Mexico Office), Peer Reviewer
Robert Prouty                     Principal Education Specialist, AFTH2, Peer Reviewer
Vinod Raina                       External Peer Reviewer
S.N. Methi                        Consultant, Para-teachers Specialist
Philip Cohen                      Consultant, Textbook
Vijay Rewal                       Consultant, Civil Works
Vikas Kumar                       Consultant, Civil Works
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. UPDPEP III. Project Implementation Plan.
2. UPDPEP III. State First Year Annual Working Plan and Budget (A WPB).
3. UPDPEP III. State Investment Proposal.
4. UPDPEP III. A WPBs for the Districts of: Champawat, Ghaziabad, Jalaun, Mahoba, Mirzarpur,
Muzaffarnagar, Pithoragarh, Rae-Bareli, Sultanpur and Unnao.
5. UPDPEP III. District Investment Proposals of the Districts of: Champawat, Ghaziabad, Jalaun,
Mahoba, Mirzarpur, Muzaffarnagar, Pithoragarh, Rae-Bareli, Sultanpur and Unnao.
6. UPDPEP III. Project costs for the state and district investment proposals.
7. UPDPEP III. GOI Pre-appraisal Report (May 25 - June 6, 1999).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. UPDPEP III. Baseline Learning Assessmentfor the Districts of: Champawat, Ghaziabad, Jalaun,
Mahoba, Mirzarpur, Muzaffarnagar, Pithoragarh, Rae-Bareli, Sultanpur and Unnao.
2. UPDPEP III. Social Assessment Studies of the Districts of Ambedkarnagar, Mahoba, Muzaffarnagar,
Pithoragarh, and Unnao.
3. UPDPEP III. State Finance Study.
4. UPBEP I and II. Sustainability Study.
5. UPBEP I and II. Transition Plan.
C. Other
1. UPDPEP III. Bid Documentfor the Procurement of Computer Hardware and Software.
2. UPDPEP III. Procurement Plan.
3. UPDPEP III. Construction Manual.
4. List of qualified NGOs associated with the design and implementation of UPDPEP III.
5. Cost calculations for the universalization of primary education Uttar Pradesh.
*Including electronic files
- 71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                 IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 331
IN-PE-41264     1999 GOI                           WTRSHD MGMT HILLS 11                    85.00        50.00        0.00      134.38      0.00      0.00
tN-PE-45050     1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           RAJASTHAN DPEP                           0.00        85.70        0.00       84.31      0.00      0.00
IN-PE-45051     1999 GOI                           2ND NATL HPVIAIDS CO                     0.00       191.00        0.00      188.45      0.00      o.oo
IN-PE-49537     1999 GO!                           AP POWER APLt                          210.00        0.00         0.00      199.83     11.83      0.00
IN-PE-50637     1999 GOI                           TN URBAN DEVIt                         105.00         0.00        0.00      105.00      0.00      0.00
IN-PE-50646     1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           UP SODIC LANDS It                        0.00       194.10        0.00      189.62      6.17      0.00
IN-PE-50651     1999 GO)                           MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                      0.00       134.00        0.00      127.99    131.01       0.00
IN-PE-10496     1998 GOI                           ORISSA HEAiLTH SYS                       0.00        76.40        0.00       72.55      1.99      0.00
IN-PE-10561     1998 GOI                           NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                       96.80       100.00        0.00      189.78     14.20       000
IN-PE-35160     1998 GOVERNMENTOFINDIA             HARYANACPOWERAPL-1                      60.00         0.00        0.00       38.19     14.18      0.00
IN-PE-35169     1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           U.P. FORESTIRY                           0.00        52.94        0.00       44.86      4.44      0.00
IN-PE-35824     1998 GOI                           UP DIVAGRC SUPPORT                      79.90        50.00        0.00      124.48     16.35       0.00
IN-PE-35827     1998 GOI                           WOMEN & CF!ILD DEVLPM                    0.00       300.00        0.00      297.75      0.00       0.00
!N-PE-38021     1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           DPEP III (BIHALR)                        0.00       152.00        0.00      136.06     23.92      0o00
IN-PE-49385     1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                   301.30       241.90        0.00      469.19      5.45      0.00
IN-PE-49477     1998 CIL                           KERALA FORESTRY                          0.00        39.00        0.00       34.77     -0.74      0.00
IN-PE-50638     1998 GOI                           UP BASIC ED.I                            0.00        59.40        0.00       29.75     -1.80      0.00
IN-PE-9979      1998 GOI                           COAL SECTOrR REHAB                     530.00        2.00        15.00      433.64     40.82     40.82
IN-PE-10473     1997 GO!                           TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                     0.00       142.40        0.00      126.88     53.54      0.00
IN-PE-10511     1997 GOI                           MALARIACONTROL                           0.00       164.80        0.00      148.70     29.73      0.00
IN-PE-10531     1997 GOI                           REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHI                     0.00       248.30        0.00      229.98     84.51      0.16
IN-PE-35158     1997 GOI                           AP IRRIGATiON III                      175.00       150.00        0.00      252.96     32.20      0.00
IN-PE-36062     1997 GOI                           ECODEVELOPMENT                           0.00        28.00        0.00       21.98      4.13       0.00
IN-PE-43728     1997 GOI                           ENVCAPACITYBLOGTA                        0.00        50.00        0.00       42.38     11.29       0.00
IN-PE-44449     1997 GOVTOF INDIA                  RURAL WOMENS DEV                         0.00        19.50        0.00       16.86      7.12       000
iN-PE-45600     1997 GOI                           TA SrS RD INFRADEV                      51.50         0.00        0.00       32.49     17.99       0.00
IN-PE-49301     1997 GOVT OF INDIA                 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                     50.00       100.00        0.00      118.99     50.67       0.00
IN-PE-9995      1997 GOI                           STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                   350.00         0.00        0.00      327.32     42.32       0.00
IN-PE-10480     1996 GO]                           B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                      167.00        25.00        0.00      119.89     95.74       0.00
IN-PE-10484     1996 GOI                           UPRURAL WA-ER                           59.60         0.00        0.00       50.24     11.33      0.00
IN-PE-10485     1996 GOI                           HYDROLOGY PROJECT                        0.00       142.00        0.00       93.33     54.34      0.00
IN-PE-10529     1996 1L&FS                         ORISSAWRCOP                              0.00       290.90        0.00      155.24      5.97       0.00
IN-PE-35170     1996 GOI                           ORISSA POWER SECTOR                    350.00         0.00        0.00      322.28    102.28       0.00
IN-PE-35821     1996 GOI                           DISTRICTPRIM EDUC2                       0.00       425.20        0.00      296.10     11.50      0.00
IN-PE-35825     1996 GOI                           STATE HEALTH SYSII                       0.00       350.00        0.00      259.15    116.27       0.00
IN-PE-39935     1996 GOI                          ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                     200.00         5.00        0.00      178691     99.84       0.00
IN-PE-43310     1996 GOI                           COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                     0.00        63.00        0.00       44.70     15.58      0.00
IN-PE-10461     1995 GOVERNMENTOFINDIA             MADRAS WATER SUP II                    275.80         0.00      189.30       53.37    171.86       6.30
(N-PE-10r463    1995 GO!                          tNDUS POLLUTION PREV                    143.00        25.00        1.72      142.89     90.05      88.33
IN-PE-10464     1995 GOI                           DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                      0.00       260.30        0.00      123.72     42.05       0.00
IN-PE-10476     1995 GOVT OF INDIA                 TAMIL NADU WRCP                          0.00       282.90        0.00      208.09    117.37       0.00
IN-PE-10489     1995 GOI                           AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                     0.00       133.00        0.00       63.06     12.17       0.00
IN-PE-10503     1995 GOI                           AGRIC HUMAN FES DEVT                     0.00        59.50        0.00       33.18     28.00      0.00
IN-PE-10506     1995 GOI                           MP FORESTRY                              0.00        58.00        0.00       15.79      9.67       0.00
IN-PE-10522     1995 GOI                           ASSAM RURAL INFRA                        0.00       126.00        0.00       95.78     42.46       0.00
IN-PE-10563     1995                               FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                   700.00         0.00      250.00      216.97    -23303       o.0o
IN-PE-10448     1994                               FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                     0.00        47.00        0.00       20.08     38.61       5.28
IN-PE-10449     1994                               ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                  0.00        77.40        0.00       21.22     12.04       0.00
IN-PE-10455     1994                               BLINDNESS CONTROL                        0.00       117.80        0.00       80.26     40.27       0.00
IN-PE-10457     1994                               POPULATION IX                            0.00        88.60        0.00       49.48     21.70       0.00
- 72 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev d
IN-PE-9870      1994 GOVT. OF INDIA                CONTAINER TRANSPORT                     94.00        0.00         0.00       67.92     63.93      -0.18
IN-PE-9964      1994 GOI                           WATER RES CONSOLID H                     0.00       258.00        0.00      136.97     78.91      0.00
IN-PE-10407     1993 GOI                           ADP - RAJASTHAN                          0.00       106.00        0.00       21.83     24.99      0.00
IN-PE-10408     1993 GOI                           BIHARPLATEAU                             0.00       117.00        0.00       48.54     55.32      0.00
IN-PE-10410     1993 GOI                           RENEWABLE RESOURCES                     75.00       115.00        0.00       68.28     98.17      0.00
IN-PE-10416     1993 GO                           PGC POWER SYSTEM                       350.00         0.00       78.00       41 79    112.19      0.00
IN-PE-10418     1993 GOI                           KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                     0.00        92.00        0.00       26.93     26.50      0.00
IN-PE-10424     1993 GOI                           NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                     0.00        85.00        9.07       24.37     33.63      9.36
IN-PE-9955      1993 GOI                           UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                      0.00       165.00        0.00       20.47     -5.30    -143.45
IN-PE-9959      1993 GOI                           RUBBER    -                              0.00        92.00       36.58       22.87     57.04      16.27
IN-PE-9961      1993 GOI                           UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                     0.00        54.70        0.00       12.76      8.33      0.00
IN-PE-9977      1993 GOI&STATES                    ICDSII(BIHAR&MP)                         0.00       194.00        0.00      116.76     91.36     101.67
IN-PE-10390     1992 G01                           MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                     0.00       124.00       16.18       32.36     48.55     31.87
IN-PE-9921      1992 GOI                           SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                     0.00        85.00       48.51       15.83     63.78      15.17
IN-PE-9946      1992 GOI                           NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                       153.00       153.00        0.00      150.69    103.15      0.00
IN-PE-9963      1992 GOI                           POPULATION Vill                          0.00        79.00        0.00       55.10     53.91      0.00
IN-PE-9877      1991 GOI                           DAM SAFETY                              23.00       130.00       60.03       25.35     84.06      339
IN-PE-9988      1991                               TECH EDUC 11                             0.00       307.10       51.37       72.53    131.94     68.41
IN-PE-9982      1990                               NOR REG TRANSM                         485.00         0.00        0.00      173.96    173.95      0.00
Total:   5,16990      7,364.84     752.76    7,998.18   2,791.80    243.40
Active         Closed
Projects        Projects         Total
Totat Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    3,874.25          33,287.65       37,161.90
of which has been repaid:        206.98       10,716.48       10,923.46
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:   12,059.95          21,904.29       33,964.24
Amount sold:           0.00         133.77          133.77
of which repaid:         0.00          133.77          133.77
Total Undisbursed:    7,998.18             62.53        8,060.71
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 73 -



INDIA
STAT EMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                IAAF                          0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00
1964/75/79/90     MUSCO                          0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HDFC                          40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00   40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00
1981              Nagarjuna Steel                0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode                 0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92    TISCO                        1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00    1.58    0.00    15.37    0.00
1981/90/93        M&M                            0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67    0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67
1984/90/94        India Lease                    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge                  12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00   12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills                 0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-NB Footwear                0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                        0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-TAN                        0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                          0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Equipment                0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80
1987              Hindustan                      2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93     Titan Watches                  0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.34    0.00     1.03    0.00
1988/90/92        Tata Telecom                   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1988/94           GKN Invel                      0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00
1989              AEC                            9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              UCAL                           0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1989/90/94        Tata Electric                 24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91           Gujarat State                  2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India                      0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00
1990              HOEL                           0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00
1990              TDICI-VECAUS II                0.00    0.00    1.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.23    0.00
1990/92           CESC                          39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60   39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60
1990/93/94/98     IL & FS                       16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00   16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00
1990/94           ICICI-IFGL                     0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00
1990/95           ICICI-SPIC Fine                0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00
1991/93           Triveni                        0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00
1991/96           VARUN                          0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.35    0.00
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co                0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1992              Indus VCF                      0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund                 0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00
1992              SKF Bearings                   1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills                   0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00
1992/94/97        Ispat Industries              30.35    0.00   15.41    0.00   30.35    0.00    15.41    0.00
1992/95           IL&FS Venture                  0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.05    0.00
1992/96/97        NICCO-UCO                      6.13    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.50    0.00
1993/94/96        Indo Rama                     18.75    0.00   11.98    7.50   18.75    0.00    11.98    7.50
1993/97           20TH Century                  11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44   11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44
1994              Centurion Growth               0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00
1994              Chowgule                      12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38   12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38
1994              Crdcap Asset Mgt               0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00
1994              DLF Cement                     7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63
1994              Gujarat Ambuja                 0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00
- 74 -



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval       Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994              Taurus Starshare               0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00
1994/97           GVK                           26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19   26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19
1994/98           Global Trust                   5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00    5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00
1995              Centurion Bank                 0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00
1995              EXIMBANK                       15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              GE Capital                      8.75    0.00    5.00    0.00    8.75    0.00    4.39    0.00
1995              Prism Cement                   14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50   14.06    0.00     5.02   10.50
1995              Rain Calcining                 19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00   19.25    0.00     5.46    0.00
1995              Sara Fund                      0.00    0.00    6.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00
1995/98           RPG Communicatns                0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25    0.00
1996              India Direct Fnd                0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.52    0.00
1996              Indus II                        0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996              United Riceland                10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99           Moser Baer                    20.05    0.00   10.14    0.00    2.30    0.00    10.14    0.00
1997              Asian Electronic                0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.50    0.00
1997              CEAT                          20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Duncan Hospital                 7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              EEPL                           0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00
1997              Owens Corning                 25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              SAPL                            0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1997              SREI                           15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997              Walden-Mgt India               0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997              wIv                             0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    .1.63    0.00
1998              iDFC                            0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46    0.00
Total Portfolio:      427.09    6.81  238.54  138.71  394.34    6.81   219.76  138.71
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 75 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh 1Third District Primary Education Project
919199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 South       Low-
India      Asia   income        Devetopment diamond'
1 9983
Population. mid-vear (miionsi                          979,7      1.305      3.515                   Life expectancy
GNP Der CaDita [Atlas method. US$)                         430        430        520
GNP lAfias method, US$ billionsl                         421 3        555      1.844                         T
Avetrapc annual orowth. 1992-98
Population /%1                                              1.7        1.8       1.7
Labor force f%l                                            2.1        2.3        f.9      GNP                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate ilatest Year avaitable. 1992-98)                                     capita                          enrollment
Povertv 1% of oooulation below national 0Overtv floel       3S
Urban Population I% of tOta/ DOUlatiOnl                    28         27         31
Life expectancy at birth (vearsJ                            63         62         63
Infant mortalitv (Der 1000 live births;                     71         77         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51                  53         53          .                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of population I5 s                             81         74
Illiteracv (% of ooDulation ape /5.1                        47         49         32
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-ape opulationr)n     100        109        108             India  ---Low-incomegroup
Male                                                     109        109        113                                     g
Female                                                    90         90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS bil/9ons)                             102.7    247.8       397.1      420.8 
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   20.4      22.6       23,1       23.4
Exoorts of 0oods and services/GDP                 6.6      5.8        10.5      10.7                       Trade
Gross domestic sevinas/GDP                      21t.      20.1        19.6      20.0
Gross national savinos/GOP                         .,    20.5        21.8       21.9
Current account baiance/GDP                       1.3     -2.         -1.3      -1.4      Domestic
Interest oavments/G5P                             0.3      0.7         1.0       0.9   6 vgs                             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   14.1     19.4       23.5       22.4      Savings
Total debt service/exports                       15.3     32.0        23.2      19.0
Present value of debt/GDP                          .:       ..       17.8
Present value of debt/exDorts                      ..        ,      135.8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averace annual orowthl
GDP                                     4. 4      5.7      7.3        5.0       680           -      iwc                   g
GNP Der capita                          2.i       3.8      5.8        3.4        47               India        Low-income aroup
Exports of poods and services           3.4      12.0      7.0       10,t        4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                      38.2      31.4       29.3      27.5      30T
Industrv                                        23.0      26.2       26.1       26.1      20
Manufacturina                                  15.5     16.1        16.8      16.8      10
Services                                        38.9      42.3       44.7       46.4        a
-In     93   94   95   65   97   98
Private consumotion                             69.3      68.2       70.2       68.9    -20
General oovernment consumption                    9.6     11.7       10.2       11.1                     0GD              0P
Imoorts of ooods and services                     5.9      8.1        14.0      14.1 1                     G
(averoe annual arowth  1977-87  1988-98  1997  1998  Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
laveraae annua/ arpwth)
Aanriculture                                      2.6       3.7        9.4      -1.0      40
Industrv                                          5.2      6.6        6.0        5.9      30
Manufacturina                                   5.5       7.1        7.7        6.8     20
Services                                          5.5      7.2        8.0        8.2     10
Private consumption                               4.8      5.1        10.6       2.0       0      '
General covernment consumption                    6.9      6.6        11.3      19.4    -15 S      3    94    95   9S   97    96
Gross domestic investment                         4.2      6.4        -1.3       7.7      20t
Imoorts of ooods and services                     8.7      8.9        10.3      12.2                     Exports    -    tmportu
Gross national product                            4.3      5.7        7.5        5.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in boldi compared with its income-oroup averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 76 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                           -
Consumer prices                                 -7.6      8.8        9.4       6.8
Implicit GDP deflator                            5.9      6.5        7.9       5.6    _0                         _ _
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   .      23 3       2,1.0     22.0             55    14    s5    sc    97       8
Current budget balance                            ..      1.5        0.4       0.0                 -  GOP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           .    -12.3        -7.8      -8.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total eSports (fob)                                    10,420     34,133    35,680     60.000
Tea                                              .      451       292        410
Iron                                             ..     428        481       475     40oo00
Manufactures                                    ..   6,458      25,490    26,022       .
Total imports (cif)                               ..  17,740     48,948    51,187
Food                                             .    1,068      1,536     1,687     20,D0i
Fuel and energy                                  .    2,187      9,626     7,624
Capital goods                                    .    5,074      8,413     7,140
92   53  94  95   96  97   98
Fxnort nrice index (1995=100)                             R9         90        87
Imnort nrice index (1995=1001                     .       77        101       104                 0Exports       'Imports
Terms of trade M1995=1001                                 11.'       R9         84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US'S millions)
Exports of goods and services                 6,800   13,637     41,607    45,109       D
Imports of goods and services                 6.080   19,962     55,696    59,297
Resource balance                                720   -6,325    -14,089   -14,188
Net income                                      -98   -2,045      -3,307    -3,521
Net current transfers                           692    2,327      12,367    11,830       T
Current account balance                       1,314   -6,043      -5,029    -5,879
Financing items (net)                        -1,314    6,114      10,256     9,475
Changes in net reserves                           0       -72     -5,227    -3,596     -2
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS miilionsl        3.747    7.200     26.050    28.757
Conversion rate fDEC. localiUSSI                 8.9     12.8       35 5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
fUS.% millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          14.471   48,124     93,435    94,404
IBRD                                          456    3,475      8,768      8,138                    G: 5,046 A 8,138
IDA                                         3,333   10,529     17,616    17,912
Total debt service                             1,178    5,273     12,058    10,586
IBRD                                           88      469      1,514      1,482                                       :17,912
IDA                                            30      152        365       381     |
Composition of net resource flows                                                       F: 38.574                        0 e_  
Official grants                               377      403        410       379                                        :36641
Official creditors                          1,058    1,404        184        -65                                        3,341
Private creditors                             -14    2,793       -147     2,520
Foreign direct investment                       0      208      2,651      3,525
Portfolio equity                                0        0      3,312      1,828                               E: 22,729
World Bank program
Commitments                                   315    1,790       1,532     1,755     A -IBRD                        E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 610    1,297       1,592     1,373     B - IDA    D-Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           66      235       1,074     1,144     C. -MO                         r. 5hn6 tarm
Net flows                                     544    1,062        518       229
Interest payments                              52      386        804       719
Net transfers                                 492      676       -287       -490
Development Economics                                                                                                       919/99
- 77 -






IBRD 30392
32'                78                                     80                                    82                                    84           32'-
HIMACHAL
)                                                         ~~~~~~~~INDIA
PRADESHU                                                                                                        PRADESH
,-TTARKAScIUTTAR PRADESH
?$-- UTTAR  KASHI   , _ , -            AV,                                         PROJECT DISTRICTS:
~t (                      ^                             Sf                             [j.  . \_  B  AS I C EDUCATION  PROJECT I & 11
^,   S   /    -.; /    RUER,RAPRA,YA2G  ,  5;                   |      | DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT 11
;/\S  DEHRADU. TEHRi GARHWAL   ./                  $           %                           |       |CHAMOLI  DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT It1
''DEHRADUOP TEHRI GARHWAL)                     ">THRGR
,OJ >-, ...... / / ...... fiX . PITHORAGARH  ;  1. > RIVERS
s'        yi "X N- ,                                                                             ,   f   /    \  STATE CAPITAL
( (SAHARANPUI.                  PAURI ,     ' " ,'BAGESHWAtR                                         ---   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
t  '       i1~~~ARIDWA* 'ito_
-. iARIO R  >2                 I                                    - ---  STATE BOUNDARIES
ALMORA       "
CZ !      -                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BIJNAUR       j               K1         (
MUZAFFARNAGAR Z                          NAINITAL         CHAMPAWAT
DHAW 1i MEERUT   3 U n    0  fiiiNGiB-   F                       o   25   S    75  100 Kilometers
(S MEERUT      YTA                   NNI                                                                I        II
85V%''/f    -iNAG,-    XRAMPUR4>                                D      25       50      75      100Miles
-  LGHAZ(A&A-_    ORAOAB 
'n~'RpU~FtBUAND-
NA_GR SHA HBRAR  ('
-28-"' ,0'. B-<  ADAUN            ->/J _N   LAK3HIMPUR                                                                                 28
Z           AUGARiI             _                                                   eF
CMATHURA'1             'V  ETAN
z    ,_ - gHATHPA         ,\  <&                     ,   SEEAPUR      ,              BALRAMPUR                                 A ,
t  < s C r > b J 8 ~~~~~~ P Y H $ g F GA2y St   R                            0u
RADII                  ,,,.f                           SIO>IDHARTH
~2 M"-'~aAGRA JFIROASAD                         AAUJNAGA                                                              R MAA ,
Px                                                                            BAAAK A               HAS    A_PU      /  A.U  '   ",KHAIUSH N GAP,
j -   NSNiAETAWAH                                       B
IJCKNOW                                              R
UNNAO                                                      O pAKAHZABA
'~~'~'    DEHAT   KANPUR  ~-,.,,. 7AMBEDKAR,"
NAGAR             e, ~ DERA-
(NAGAR)       "              \   SULTANPUR        -               \---i
_A1  NAGAR)         ~~RAI-BARELI ~
, JALAUN                     ~Cr,  
26'                             MADHYA                                   PAZAMGARH" MAU                                                               26-
(his         <-p               " - produced by the Map Design Unit ofPRATAPGARH TW B.                     BALIA    - .
PRADESH                                       ~~~~FATEH-PU`R\                                      __          "
PRADESH  "~~~~~~~~  5-   HAMIRRUR    ~ ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ rJAUNPUR
JHANSI        HAMIRPUR                                                               5-- GHAZIPUR
-~~~    '  /            -  S~~~~ ~~ANDA      4AUHMi                '/     AN S
- -                     \>j."   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. ~~~~ CHITRAKOO         ALLIfB
~~~~~ ~~~MIRZAPU                                        IA
)LALITPUR P   
SONBHADRA
24-                                                    MADHYA  PRADESH                                                                                24-
This maip n'as prodluced by thse Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                     II
judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
78'                                       80D                                       82'                                       84'
NOVEMBER 1999



