                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                             Report No:ICR-000164




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                              (IDA-33070)




                                             ON A CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 132.3 MILLION
                              (US$ 182.40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                                FOR THE

       UTTAR PRADESH THIRD DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                            October 30, 2006




Human Development Unit
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 03/01/2006 )
                               Currency Unit = INR
                                    INR 1.00 = US$ 0.021
                                    US$ 1.00 = INR 44.42


                                        Fiscal Year




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABSA  Assistant Basic Shiksha Adhikari
APERP Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project
AS    Alternative Schools
ATR   Action Taken Report
AWPB  Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS   Baseline Assessment Survey
BP    Bank Policy
BPL   Below Poverty Line
BRC   Block Resource Centre
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CRC   Cluster Resource Centre
CSS   Centrally Sponsored Scheme
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DFID  Department for International Development
DIET  District Institute of Education and Training
DISE  District Information System for Education
DPEP  District Primary Education Project
DPO   District Project Office
DWCD  Department of Women and Child Development
EC    European Commission
ECCE  Early Childhood Care and Education
EEB   Elementary Education Bureau
EFA   Education for All
EGS   Education Guarantee Scheme
EMIS  Education Monitoring and Information System
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
FGD   Focus Group Discussion
GER   Gross Enrollment Ratio
GO    Government Order

GOI    Government of India
GOUA   Government of Uttaranchal
GOUP   Government of Uttar Pradesh
GSS    Gram Shiksha Samiti
ICDS   Integrated Child Development Scheme
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results
IRR    Internal Rate of Return
ISR    Implementation Status Report
JRM    Joint Review Mission
JRY    Jawahar Rozgar Yojana
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MAS   Midterm Assessment Survey
MDG    Millennium Development Goal
MHRD   Ministry of Human Resource Development
MS    Mahila Samakhya
MTA   Mother Teacher Association
MTR   Mid Term Review
NCERT National Council for Education Research and Training
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
NIEPA National Institute of Education Planning and Administration
NPE   National Policy of Education
NPGEL National Program for Girls' Education and Literacy
NPRC  Nyaya Panchayat Resource Centre
NPV   Net Present Value
OP    Operations Policy
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project Development Objectives
PFMS  Project Financial Management Systems
PIP   Project Implementation Plan
PMGY   Pradhan Mantri Grameen Yojana
PMIS  Project Monitoring Information System
POA    Plan of Action
PRI    Panchayati Raj Institutions
PSR   Project Status Report
PTA   Parent Teacher Association
PTR   Pupil Teacher Ratio
QEA    Quality at Entry
QSA    Quality of Supervision
SAS   Social Assessment Survey
SC    Scheduled Caste
SCERT State Council for Education Research and Training
SIEMAT State Institute for Education Management and Training
SIS   State Implementation Society

SMC   School Management Committee
SPD   State Project Director
SPO   State Project Office
SSA   Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
ST    Scheduled Tribe
TAS   Terminal Assessment Survey
TLM   Teaching Learning Materials
TPR   Teacher Pupil Ratio
UA    Uttaranchal
UEE   Universal Primary/elementary Education [see abbreviation: UEE}
UP    Uttar Pradesh
UPBEP Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project
VEC   Village Education Committee




                            Vice President: Praful C. Patel

                          Country Director: Fayez S. Omar

                           Sector Manager: Michelle Riboud

                      Project Team Leader: Venita Kaul

                                            India
                  Uttar Pradesh Third District Primary Education Project




                                        CONTENTS




1. Basic Information                                                     1
2. Key Dates                                                             1
3. Ratings Summary                                                       1
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                2
5. Bank Staff                                                            2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                    3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                     6
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                             17
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                          19
11. Lessons Learned                                                      22
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners 23
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                      24
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                   26
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                     27
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                            29
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                 31
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes   35
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance               38
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                       39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                         40
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR         43
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders       44
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                   45
Annex 13 Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                     47
MAP                                                                      60

1. Basic Information
                                                                        Uttar Pradesh Third
Country:                India                  Project Name:            District Primary
                                                                        Education Project
Project ID:             P050667                L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-33070
ICR Date:               10/31/2006             ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                        INDIA (GOI)
Original Total
                        XDR 132.3M             Disbursed Amount:        XDR 132.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies


Uttar Pradesh Sabhi ke liye Shiksha Parishad (Education for All Project Society)
Uttaranchal Sabhi ke liye Shiksha Parishad (Education for All Project Society)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date              Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review: 03/13/1999            Effectiveness:     04/25/2000          04/25/2000
Appraisal:        09/13/1999          Restructuring(s):
Approval:         12/16/1999          Mid-term Review:                       07/21/2004
                                      Closing:           09/30/2005          03/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory




                                             1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                 No           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                33               33
Primary education                                                     61               61
Tertiary education                                                     6                6
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                  Primary           Not Applicable
Gender                                                   Primary           Primary
Child health                                             Secondary         Secondary
Education for all                                        Primary           Primary
Social risk mitigation                                   Primary           Not Applicable


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                            At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                        Praful C. Patel   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                                      Fayez S. Omar     Edwin R. Lim
                                                                         Ralph W.
Sector Manager:                                        Michelle Riboud
                                                                         Harbison
Project Team Leader:                                   Venita Kaul       Juan Prawda
ICR Team Leader:                                       Arun R. Joshi
ICR Primary Author:                                    Deepa Sankar




                                            2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector background: Uttar Pradesh (UP), home to one-sixth of India's people, is the
second poorest state in India and also one of the most educationally backward. In 2001, it had an
overall literacy rate of 57 percent, with female literacy rate being only 43 percent. The
educational system, at the time of appraisal, was characterized by deficiencies and inequalities
with regard to access to quality education, availability of good infrastructure, participation in
education process and efficiency of learning outcomes.


The rationale for Bank assistance derives from the basic thrust of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS-1998). The Government of India (GOI)'s National Policy on Education (NPE),
1986 underlined the need to attain the goal of universal elementary education (UEE). This
resulted in proactive GOI initiatives in the sector, with Bank support, through various centrally
sponsored schemes (CSS) to support the efforts of the districts/states in primary education. UP
was also a beneficiary of this initiative. At the time of appraisal, UP was already implementing
two large Bank-supported projects - the UP Basic Education Project (UPBEP) I and II in 17
districts and the District Primary Education Program (DPEP) II in 18 districts. The Uttar Pradesh
District Primary Education Project III (UP DPEP III)1, which was built upon the experience of
onceptualizing and implementing these projects in the state, extended these interventions to 42
additional districts out of a total of 83 districts.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to assist the GOUP in its efforts to build capacity
to ensure that all 6-10-year-old children in 42 districts of the (undivided UP) state, particularly
those from socially disadvantaged groups, complete a five-year primary education cycle of
appropriate quality. The project was also expected to contribute to further increasing the
geographical coverage of the Bank-assisted UPBEP I and II and DPEP II.




1At appraisal, the project was for the unified state of Uttar Pradesh, which was subsequently bifurcated into
Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal in 2001. Since then the project covered both states.




                                                     3

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


Not applicable.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised


1.    Children in the age group 6-10 years in 42 districts of undivided UP state, in particular
girls, and those from socially disadvantaged groups (poor, scheduled caste, tribal, minority
communities, working children and differently-abled children) were expected to benefit from
increased access to quality education.


2.    Teachers were expected to benefit from in-service training, improved pedagogical support
systems, and increased funding for teaching-learning materials (TLM).


3.    Schools were expected to benefit from the enhanced support from and involvement of
Village Education Committees (VEC) and community members in the management of schools.
Also, the improved infrastructure and facilities would make schools more appealing to children as
well as parents.


4.    The wider community was expected to benefit from improved educational facilities,
community mobilization and training. Moreover, selected community members and
representatives from village-level institutional bodies would benefit from capacity building
initiatives.


5.    State and district education sector / departments were expected to benefit from
improved access to education, better infrastructure, improved human resources (teachers), and
enhanced capacities at various levels. Capacities were to be built through: (a) academic support
systems including Block Resource Centers (BRCs), Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs), and
District Institutions for Education and Training (DIET); and (b) administrative and management
support systems, such as Education Management Information Systems (EMIS), Project
Management Information Systems (PMIS) and Project Financial Management Systems (PFMS).

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


Project Component 1 (US$ 80.1 million): Expanding access to and increasing retention levels
in primary education, particularly for children from disadvantaged groups : Includes the
following sub-components: (a) Implementing a three-fold strategy to address the shortage of
teachers and the inequitable distribution of regular teachers by: (i ) filling existing vacancies
against sanctioned posts; (ii) redeploying existing teachers on a rationalized basis to ensure an
acceptable teacher-pupil ratio (TPR) within the norm of 1:50; and (iii) appointing para -teachers
in new and existing schools; (b ) Constructing and renovating schools and classrooms and
providing toilets and water facilities; (c ) Piloting double-shift models in schools; (d) Providing
alternative schooling (AS) facilities; (e) Designing specific interventions, such as the Mahila


                                                  4

Samakhya (MS) and Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) centers, to address the
educational needs of children from socially disadvantaged groups (girls, SC and ST children,
working children, differently abled children and others with limited access to educational
opportunities); (f) Conducting regular health check-ups for school children; and (g) Mobilizing
and strengthening community organizations, in particular village panchayats and VECs, and
conducting awareness campaigns.


Project Component 2 (US$ 58.6 million): Improving the quality of classroom processes and
enhancing learning achievement levels in primary education through Institutionalizing a
holistic approach for pedagogical renewal through the following sub-components: (a) providing
comprehensive and continuous support for teacher development and follow-up professional
support to teachers, para-teachers and AS instructors; (b) developing and supplying improved
instructional materials and providing financial support to teachers and para-teachers for the
acquisition and/or development of TLMs; (c ) providing book banks; (d) conducting assessments
of children's learning.


Project Component 3 (US$ 76.0 million) : Enhancing state, district and sub-district level
capacity to manage primary education: This component includes the following sub-
components: (a) strengthening the State Project Office (SPO) and Divisional Offices (DPOs); (b)
strengthening the capacity of district project management structures; (c ) integrating and
strengthening existing state and district resource institutions in project implementation, (d)
involving qualified NGOs in project implementation; and (e) strengthening state and district
capacity for monitoring, research and evaluation and related activities.

6.6 Revised Components


All the original components apart from one - piloting double-shift models - were retained.

6.7 Other significant changes


The UP DPEP III became effective on April 15, 2000. However, in August 2000, the state of
Uttar Pradesh (UP) was bifurcated into Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal (UA). A legal amendment
was made to the Agreement to reflect this change, and to include 36 districts of 'new' UP and 6
districts of UA under the project. The Amendment became effective in August 2003. Separate
State Implementation Societies (SIS) were created for the two states to implement the project.
Approximately 86.7 percent of the total funding was allocated to UP and 13.3 percent to UA.
Other changes included one extension of closing date and reallocation between categories. The
project is hereafter referred to as UP/UA DPEP III.




                                                5

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry criteria was not formally assessed at the stage of project preparation. However,
one can assess that the project was appropriately designed on the basis of the following two
factors:
    · Factors related to sound project preparation: (i) The project was in keeping with the
         CAS; (ii) UP State Implementation Society (SIS) had proven management capacity in
         project implementation through its experience with earlier two projects; (iii) There was
         national ownership, as reflected in the project being a part of the larger DPEP
         series sponsored by the GOI and conformed to the central guidelines; and (iv) State
         ownership and political will was evident in the appointment of a senior administrative
         officer as State Project Director (SPD) and the Chief Secretary of the State Government
         as the Chairperson of the Executive Committee. Moreover, an integrated project
         management approach was used at the start of project implementation by involving
         existing administrative and academic structures at all levels. This was also necessitated
         by the large geographical coverage of the project as well as the GOUP's decision at the
         time to transfer the Basic Education departments to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).
         Similar approach was adopted subsequently by UA as well and therefore, the issues
         discussed are relevant for both states, unless specified otherwise.


    · Factors related to project design: Project design was based on: (i) a social assessment,
         which helped to identify target groups and their characteristics; (ii) a baseline assessment
         of learning achievement; and (iii) project monitoring indicators for quality, which were
         agreed to with the client during preparation.


Critical Risks: Potential risks stemmed mainly from the changing socio-political environment and
the shift towards greater decentralization. The critical risks identified were related to competing
demands on state's fiscal resources and limited capacity in the PRIs to carry out the expected
management responsibilities. These risks were mitigated through inclusion of cost effective
measures such as para-teachers and alternative schools and training of VECs. A third party mid-
term evaluation of PRI management of primary education was also agreed with the borrower. The
other risks related mainly to factors affecting adequate targeting and quality which were
addressed through adoption of a holistic pedagogic strategy and emphasis on community
involvement and participation. Though the risk ratings were fairly realistic at the time of
appraisal, some of these were moderated during the implementation period due to improved
conditions.


Identification of outcomes and their measurement: (i) Although specific outcome indicators
were identified for monitoring progress, a key outcome indicator- completion rate - was not
included, although the PDO specifies "completion of a five-year primary education cycle of
appropriate quality". However, since repetition and dropout rates were taken into account, it



                                                 6

facilitated assessment of the internal efficiency of the school system. (ii) A unique feature was an
agreement with the borrower on a set of quality indicators, in addition to the usual outcome
indicators and baseline studies, as specified in the log frame. (iii) Third party evaluations at mid-
term were included for each innovation such as para-teachers, alternative schools, early childhood
centres, teacher training and support structures created during the project and VECs' school
management. These were carried out by both states.


Participatory Process: The active participation of stakeholders appears to have been the
cornerstone of the UP/UA DPEP III as reported in the project documents and aide memoires.
These groups include primary beneficiaries (community members, parents, children, teachers,
local leaders, etc.) and representatives from NGOs, academic institutions and other government
departments (the Department of Women and Child Development [DWCD] and Department of
Health and local government institutions [PRI]). The inter-departmental convergence has been
more prominently the highlight of the project in UA. Participation through information sharing,
consultation, collaboration and convergence took place at various stages of the project cycle. The
efforts at community mobilization were particularly directed towards creating a demand for girls'
education.

7.2 Implementation

Project implementation:: The UP/UA DPEP III was part of the centrally sponsored scheme and
was implemented within the framework of the DPEP guidelines. The project was given a six
month extension and closed on March 31, 2006. The extension was given to fully utilize funds
accrued from: (i) an initial underestimation of counterpart fund (which had to be in a fixed ratio)
by Rs.142 crore (US$ 32.3 million) while seeking clearance from the Expenditure Finance
Committee of GOI which was later made available, (ii) a gain of about Rs.52.5 crore (US$ 12
million) due to exchange rate fluctuations. Both project states submitted specific extension plans
which focused on consolidation of their quality initiatives.


Mid Term Review (MTR) and subsequent actions: Due to the bifurcation of the states, there was
delay in the completion of agreed studies, which in turn delayed the completion of MTR. The
MTR identified issues and made specific recommendations with respect to spatial inequalities,
teacher shortages, poor learning levels, varying effectiveness of VECs, need to strengthen
convergence with other departments (for providing Early Childhood Care and Education [ECCE])
and the need for innovative multi-grade teaching in small schools, more particularly in the hill
districts of UA.


Project at risk: The project, throughout its implementation, has never been at risk. The critical
risks identified at the project preparation stage were periodically assessed and mitigation
measures suggested. For example, the risks associated with the appointment of untrained para-
teachers in both states were highlighted during supervision and were mitigated by evolving a
systematic induction training and refresher strategy.




                                                7

Convergence with other departments: The composition of the Executive Committee of the project
with the Chief Secretary as chair person facilitated convergence with other departments. Specific
successful examples of convergence included: (a) setting up of ECCE centers in schools in
coordination with the Department of Women and Child Development's ICDS program. This had a
positive impact on girls' attendance and school participation (source: Evaluation Reports of the
ECCE Program of UP and UA, 2004); (b) promoting girls' education in partnership with Mahila
Samakhya (MS), an autonomous GOI program for women's empowerment and education, with
active community mobilization. At the school level, MS was also involved in informal
monitoring, gender sensitization and training of teachers; (c) convergence of funds for civil works
of the Planning Department and Rural Water and Sanitation Department enabled optimization of
program resources allocated for civil works.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) design, implementation and utilization need to be examined at
various levels:


Village/ habitation level: Micro-planning through community mobilization in both states enabled
participatory and decentralized planning and to some extent, monitoring of activities in the
schools, especially with regard to student and teacher attendance/ absence. Institutions such as
VECs, School Management Committees (SMCs) and Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs) were
involved in mobilizing parents to send children to school regularly. They were also involved in
construction activities and the selection and management of para-teachers. While the
effectiveness of monitoring through such a decentralized system varied across districts, blocks,
villages, habitations and schools, the institutionalization of the monitoring system is now being
increasingly accepted. Evidence of this was available during the ICR mission field visits. With
the continuation of the same arrangements under SSA, the effectiveness of these functions at the
local level is expected to be sustained and improve over time.


State, district, block and cluster levels: The data flow from the school is through the Cluster
Resource Centres (CRCs) to the Block Resource Centres (BRCs) where it is consolidated and
sent to districts. District-wise monitoring of project processes, outputs and outcomes was made
possible through the setting up of the EMIS and PMIS. The District Information System for
Education (DISE) a school-level information system developed by National Institute of Education
Planning and Administration (NIEPA) enabled collection of data on various parameters of school
infrastructure as well as indicators of enrolment and retention on an annual basis. The process of
data collection and its management has improved over the project period, but the lack of timely
updating of data has come in the way of its proper utilization. At present the DISE data is mainly
used for infrastructure and personnel planning and for upward reporting of education indicators.
Utilization could be improved by: (a) ensuring clearer definitions of educational indicators such
as dropout and completion rates; (b) ensuring regular data validation and more rigorous data
analysis; and (c) disseminating the results at the micro level.




                                                 8

Project and national level: The mode of supervision, as agreed by the Bank at the time of
negotiations for all the DPEP projects, was through Joint Review Missions (JRM). JRMs were
organized bi-annually and involved the participation of GOI nominees and funding agencies,
including the World Bank, Department for International Development (DFID), EC (European
Commission) and Royal Netherlands Embassy (RNE). The GOI and the donors, including the
Bank, led the JRMs in rotation. The state reports and Aide Memoires reveal detailed and focused
reviews and suggestions to improve project implementation. Each state was visited by a two-
member team. However, monitoring of the fiduciary aspects was not a part of these missions due
to varying priorities among donors. The recommendations of the JRMs were noted, and Action
Taken Reports (ATR) on the previous JRM's recommendations formed a major part of the State
Progress Reports presented to subsequent JRMs. This method of monitoring also helped in
introducing lessons from other parts of the country where similar DPEP projects were being
implemented.


State initiated monitoring systems: Specific mechanisms for monitoring were evolved by the
states themselves, of which the most significant has been the school grading system which
potentially is a good management tool, used more effectively by UA. This system was designed
with a view to objectively assessing each of the schools on a uniform set of criteria and to create
an opportunity for schools to improve their teaching and learning environment. In both states the
school grading system has been in place for the past three years, albeit with different tools and
methods between states and so far, with varied success in implementation between states as well
as within states. However, both states have reviewed the existing system and its implementation
(of using only physical infrastructure and quality inputs), and are in the process of improving the
tools. Monthly cluster meetings and visits of the Cluster Resource Coordinators and Block
Resource Coordinators were part of the project design for on-site support to teachers. However,
capacity issues at this level were very evident.


Research: Third party evaluations of various initiatives also informed the monitoring and
evaluation process. Although the states have demonstrated considerable initiative in undertaking
these state-wide studies, the quality of these studies, their dissemination and their applicability in
planning have been limited.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The safeguard policies that were relevant in terms of fulfilling the compliance requirements of the
UP/UA DPEP III project were related to (a) environment assessment, and (b) indigenous people.
The project was not expected to raise any significant environmental concerns (Category C). No
environmental issues were faced during the stage of project implementation, and the
environmental assessment was rated as satisfactory.


As part of the preparation of the project, a Social Assessment Survey (SAS) was conducted and
major barriers to participation in education were identified. On the basis of this assessment,
special target groups were identified such as girls, SCs and STs, minority groups, and working



                                                 9

children. Project interventions attempted to address many of these issues. Free textbooks were
provided to children from specific backgrounds, book banks established in schools, and concerted
efforts made to mobilize the community and build awareness. PRIs were involved in these
initiatives. ECCE, which received special attention, facilitated girls' enrolment and pre-school
education. As centers provided flexible school timings for children from special groups, issues
related to the adverse PTR and the quality of education were addressed by filling up posts of
teachers, appointing para-teachers and providing training. Madarsas and maktabs were
strengthened by introducing a regular curriculum and providing training for teachers to address
the issue of access for children from minority groups.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


The Central Government is committed to enroll children and to ensure that all children complete
elementary education through its flagship Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) or Elementary Education
For All program. The SSA builds on the experiences of other Centrally Sponsored Schemes
(CSS). While the DPEP has been introduced in selected districts and addresses only the primary
stage of education, the SSA covers the entire country and has been expanded to include the upper
primary classes. The tried and tested initiatives of DPEP III are expected to be sustained through
this nation-wide program. Although the institutions developed under the UP/UA DPEP III, such
as the State Institute of Education Management and Training (SIEMAT), Block Resource Centers
(BRCs), Nyay Panchayat Resource Centers (NPRCs), and Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs), will
be supported by the SSA in the immediate phase after closure of the DPEP, the State
Governments are committed to continuing these institutional arrangements through state funds.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


As noted in Section 6.1, the PDOs were in line with the basic thrust of the Bank's CAS (1998),
which considered primary education as key to addressing poverty alleviation and sustainable
economic growth. The PDOs are still relevant in the current context of global and country
priorities and the Bank's latest CAS (2004). Achieving the global Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) of ensuring universal primary education by 2015 and promoting gender equality -
depends significantly on India's efforts/initiatives in these areas. The Government of India (GOI)
is committed to achieving the MDGs, and India's Poverty Reduction Strategy, as described in the
Tenth Five Year Plan, also considers education as a major focus area. The GOI's goal is even
more ambitious than the MDGs; which is to achieve universal elementary education by 2010. The
CAS (2004) also emphasizes the continuing importance of Bank support to education in this
context.


In view of these factors, the objectives of the UP/UA DPEP III, and its design and
implementation, were highly relevant to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance
strategy and are therefore rated satisfactory.



                                                10

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project design provided for baseline, mid term and end line measures to assess progress on
key performance indicators. Ideally, an assessment of the impact of the project would have
involved: (i) a comparison of the progress made by DPEP against a valid counterfactual; and/or
(ii) an evaluation against set targets. A simple comparison of DPEP and non-DPEP districts
would not have provided a valid counterfactual for the following reasons: (a) the basis for
selecting districts for the DPEP was their relative educational backwardness, reflected in low
female literacy. As such, the non-DPEP districts were already in a better position; (b) multiple
schemes for primary education have been in operation since 1986 in various districts, making it
difficult to accurately control for the impact of different programs. In UP and UA, the situation is
even more complex as the non-DPEP III districts have been covered earlier by both UP BEP I
and II as well as DPEP II; and (c) historical projections were not possible due to non-availability
of district wise time-series data. A thorough impact evaluation was not possible at this stage given
the time frame and data availability.


Although baseline measures were provided, UP/UA DPEP III did not specify any targets during
preparation. This was justified given the experience of previous DPEP projects, where setting
targets had led to perverse behavior on reporting outcomes. However, the DPEP program at the
national level had fixed certain targets as follows: (i) reduce differences in enrolment, dropout
and learning achievement across gender and among social groups to less than 5 percent; (ii)
reduce the overall primary dropout rate for all students to less than 10 percent; (iii) provide all
children access to primary education classes wherever possible, or its equivalent in a non-formal
education environment; and (iv) raise average achievement levels by at least 25 percent over
measured baseline levels; and ensure the achievement of basic literacy and numeracy
competencies and a minimum of 40 percent achievement levels in other competencies among all
primary school children (measured through the BAS, MAS, and TAS). The states used these as
reference. The progress towards achieving the PDOs by components is assessed in this context.


(a) Expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary education, particularly for
children from disadvantaged groups:


Access: Both states have made concerted efforts to make education accessible to all children by
providing adequate technical, human and financial investments towards increasing coverage of
primary schooling in project districts. In addition to regular schools 5,224 Education Guarantee
Schools (EGS) centers, AS centers in UP and 720 EGS/AS in UA were set up for children who
were in smaller habitations or outside the ambit of regular schools.


Enrollment: There has been a reduction in the number of out-of-school children and a
corresponding increase in school enrolment, particularly of girls. Total enrolment in the 42
UP/UA DPEP III districts registered a compound growth rate of 5.8 percent per annum during the
project period, which is significant. Total primary enrolment grew from about 8.6 million (2001-




                                                11

02) to around 13.3 million (2006). The primary GER2 and NER for 6-10-year-old children has
improved in all the project districts in both UP and UA, as indicated in Annex 1.


Equity: Socially backward and marginalized groups identified under the project included girls,
SC and ST children. (i) The targets of reducing the gender gap in enrolment to less than 5 percent
was achieved in both project states with the GER for girls increasing from 82 percent (1999) to
102 percent (2006) in UP and from 86.6 percent (1999) to 102 percent (2006) in UA. (ii) The
social equity target has been met as GER of SC children has increased from 94 percent (2003) to
105 percent and 99 percent in UP and UA respectively (2006). The share of SCs in enrolment at
28 percent of total enrolment in UP is more than their share in total population (21
percent). Interestingly, most of these achievements were possible through provision of alternative
arrangements such as EGS and AS.


Dropout and retention: The project target was to bring down the primary dropout rate to less
than 10 percent. While the baseline primary dropout rate was 45 percent (1999), the sample
cohort study conducted by SIEMAT estimated the dropout rate in UP to be only around 16
percent in 2006. UA reported a dropout rate of less than 1 percent in its primary grades. While the
data indicates an overall reduction in dropout rates, which is a positive outcome of the project, a
limitation of the data is the non-availability of disaggregated data by gender and social group.
Moreover, there are issues related to the operational definition of dropouts, particularly in the
context of migration of children to private schools, which need to be addressed. The transition
rate from primary to upper primary in the UA districts is approximately 98-99 percent. UA
reported a primary completion rate of over 96 percent in all its DPEP districts while in UP, the
rate was approximately 82.5 percent. However, our analysis using constructed cohort method
shows that the primary completion rate is around 70 percent in UP and 72 percent in UA.
As baseline measures did not include this parameter, it is difficult to assess progress.


Rating: Overall, while the achievements in improving access and enrolment and gender
equity have been satisfactory, the progress in internal efficiency of the system with
respect to reducing drop out rates and retention (which is also a reflection of primary completion
rates) has been only moderately satisfactory.


(b) Improving the quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement levels
in primary education:


Pedagogical Reforms: The project's contribution was clearly evident in the area of pedagogical
renewal in both states as indicated by the following: (i) the reform in textbooks, which were more




2 The Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) in some cases exceeds 100 percent due to inclusion of over-age and
under-age enrollments. The formula for calculating primary GER is: (children enrolled in primary grades/6-
10 year old child population) *100




                                                 12

child-friendly, both in terms of design, content and language used; (ii) the textbook development
process, which now involved teachers in the preparation of textbooks; (iii) preparation of detailed
and well designed teacher training modules and guides for child-centered teaching -- learning;
(iv) institution of academic resource groups at all levels; and (v) institutionalizing a school
grading system. However, while the curriculum materials had been developed at the state level,
where a sound understanding of child centered pedagogy was evident, this understanding did not
seem to have adequately trickled down to the field level. Although the classrooms did indicate a
participatory approach, the overall methodology appeared to be relatively teacher centered,
particularly in UP. This may be due to the large scale of operations in that state, which could have
been a major impediment to effective and sustained communication to the lower levels.


Learning Achievements: The achievement related program targets were to raise average learning
levels by at least 25 percent, over measured baseline in basic literacy and numeracy competencies
and a minimum of 40 percent achievement levels in other competencies, among all primary
school children. The results of the Terminal Assessment Survey (TAS) show that in both project
states, there has been an improvement over the BAS in the achievement of students in Grades II
and V in language and mathematics. However, the improvement is short of the set targets. The
results are reported in detail in Annex 1. In both states, results also show achievement gains for
SCs, OBCs, and girls. However, these results, particularly those for UP, require further review
due to the following reasons: Firstly, the results are inconsistent with the assessment done during
field visits wherein the achievement levels were found to be very low. Random reading tests for
Grades II and IV conducted during field visits in some of the project districts in UP with poorer
infrastructure and historically lower literacy rates, showed mixed results. A recent national wide
learning assessment carried out by an NGO, Pratham (Annual Status of Education Report --
ASER 2005) also shows that 62 percent students in the age group of 7-10 years in UP and 34.7
percent in UA could not even read short sentences. Similarly, 67.7 percent of the students in UP
and 43.7 percent in UA could not do simple subtraction and division. Secondly, in UP, the BAS,
MAS, and TAS were carried out by the State Council for Education Research and Training
(SCERT), which is more like an 'in house' evaluation rather than a 'third party' evaluation, given
its role in supporting the education system in the state. This was a limitation of the project design.
Third, in UA, the BAS, MAS, and TAS were carried out by different agencies, and consequently
it was not possible to ensure comparability while conducting the assessments. While these issues
are important, it is to the credit of the project that (a) all three learning achievement surveys were
completed on time, which was a legal covenant; (b) there has been an overall improvement in
learning achievement levels in both states; and (c) this improvement has occurred despite the
increase in enrolment of first generation learners in the student population.


Rating: Overall, the project seems to have made a significant contribution in terms of introducing
pedagogical reforms towards child centered education in terms of text books, training and school
grading. In terms of the process reforms, therefore, the project is rated satisfactory. However,
these reforms did not get completely institutionalized in the classrooms, possibly due to
challenges resulting from the geographical scale, inadequate capacity at the field level and issues
of accountability and governance, many of which were beyond the scope of the project. These


                                                  13

could possibly be the factors that contributed to continuing low levels of learning across the
project states. In view of these, the PDO is rated as moderately satisfactory.


(c) Institutional development:


State and district level institutions: The most significant achievement of the project was the
establishment of SIEMAT in UP which is recognized as a model by other states. Through its
research and training activities, SIEMAT serves the needs of several Hindi-speaking states in
addition to the project districts in UP. The research components of the project were largely
supervised by SIEMAT. However, its capacity to conduct large-scale complex research to
provide inputs for policy development seems to be limited, as illustrated by the TAS findings and
the study of head teachers in UP. There is also an issue regarding some degree of overlap in the
activities of SIEMAT and SCERT, as is evident from the materials developed and the training
calendars of these institutions. The District Institutes for Education and Training (DIETs) in UA
are comparatively stronger than in UP, and have played an effective role in developing and
providing training and academic support and conducting action research in the project districts.
DIETs play a key mentoring role in the school grading system in both states. However, the
system and processes of academic support to schools and their supervision need to be further
examined.


Sub-district level institutions: BRCs and NPRCs created during the project were in place and
adequately staffed. Although their role was envisaged to be primarily to provide academic
support to schools, this role seems to have been limited in many cases due to their administrative
responsibilities. Issues of capacity are also evident. One of the challenges was to ensure effective
coordination at the block level between the NPRC, BRC coordinators, and ABSAs from the
mainstream education department. The project has made an effort to integrate the mainstream
cadres with the project to ensure sustainability and coherence.


Rating: The achievement related to this PDO is rated as satisfactory.


Overall, given the complexity and challenge resulting from the geographical and population scale
of the project, particularly in UP, the project is assessed to have succeeded in making consistent
progress on all the PDOs. To summarize the ratings:

                       PDO                                               Rating
PDO 1 Expanding Access and Increasing
Access, enrolment, gender equity                     Satisfactory
Internal efficiency (drop out and retention)         Moderately Satisfactory
PDO 2 Quality of classroom process and
Pedagogical Reforms                                  Satisfactory
Learning Achievements                                Moderately satisfactory
PDO 3 Institutional Development                      Satisfactory




                                                14

There has been a reduction in the number of out-of-school children and a corresponding increase
in school enrolment, particularly of girls. There has also been a reduction in the dropout rate and
some improvement in the learning achievement levels over baseline for language and
mathematics for Grades II and V in both states. However, overall levels of learning still remain a
matter of concern, which could be attributed to various factors, many of which are beyond the
scope of the project. In addition to other gains, institutional capacity has also been built. Overall,
project implementation and the achievement of PDOs is therefore rated satisfactory.

8.3 Efficiency

Economic Rate of Return:      The economic analysis at the appraisal stage of the project did not
quantify a specified economic rate of return (ERR), nor did it attempt to estimate a net present
value (NPV) of future benefits.


As an outcome of the project, it can be safely assumed that a larger proportion of the labor force
in UP and UA will be at least primary school graduates in the coming years. The average
investment per student under DPEP III amounted to US$ 39 over the project period or US$ 7.8
per additional student per year. The estimated direct costs of the project comprise project
investment, the public and private cost of each additional pupil-year, and the opportunity cost of
retaining each student in school for an additional year (instead of employing them as child labor).
Private costs are those incurred by the families of each pupil on school fees, books and school
supplies, transportation, etc. The opportunity cost of retaining each student in school for an
additional year is estimated to be equal to the wage of an unskilled worker with no schooling.
Using these assumptions, the project yields an internal economic private rate of return (ERR) of
14.78 percent.


The PAD reported that at appraisal, the primary schooling system in UP was inefficient in terms
of resources utilized to produce one graduating child. The experience of the DPEP II districts in
UP indicated that around 25 percent of children were overage, partly as a result of class repetition
and the high dropout rate (estimated at 35 percent). On an average, 7. 8 teaching years were
required to produce one primary school graduate. Given the high cost of universalizing primary
education, it was necessary to correct overage enrolments to make it cost effective.
Although baseline (pre-project) data for NER for UP/UA DPEP III districts is not available for
comparison, it is assumed that the percentage of "grossness" (the difference between GER and
NER due to over age children enrolling) would have been similar to that reported above for DPEP
II. The difference between GER and NER in DPEP III districts of UP is only around 10 percent
while it is less than 5 percent in UA in 2005-06, indicating an improvement in age appropriate
enrolment.


The impact of the project investments need to be considered in the context of India's commitment
to universalizing elementary education. The project interventions enabled access to schooling in
hitherto inaccessible areas and hard-to-reach communities. Overall, the project interventions led




                                               15

to increased access and enrolment which is in turn expected to reap future economic and social
benefits.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating


Rating: Satisfactory

The UP/UA DPEP III was initiated with support from the Central and State Governments, as well
as from funding agencies, at a time when the nation-wide UEE efforts were gaining momentum.
UP and UA were already on the path of reform with the previous projects, and improving
elementary education was seen as a means to achieve the larger objective of economic and social
progress. The political will to support education was also evident from the importance given to
the project by the two State Governments. The project provided several types of inputs, ranging
from providing physical infrastructure to improving textbooks and training methodology, as well
as other pedagogical improvements, and institutional capacity building. However, the
achievements of the project, as described above, were not limited to inputs and outputs; the
initiatives translated also to an extent into an improvement in outcomes, which was a significant
achievement given the challenge posed by the geographical and population scale of the project
states, particularly in UP.


Overall, taking into account various aspects of preparation, implementation, achievement of
PDOs and the impact already visible and those that appear to be attainable in the future, the
UP/UA DPEP III project is rated satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The UP/UA DPEP III, through its participatory approach, brought primary education to the center
stage, which was favorable for project implementation. Positive changes in the social
environment were apparent in both states, though more in UA, possibly because of the
comparatively smaller scale of operations and higher baseline indicators. These changes
include (a) short term impacts in terms of better school infrastructure, increased participation of
children in school and to some extent, increased awareness within the community as well.
Primary schooling is emerging as a social norm, and parents have started to bring their children to
school with a clear objective: to make them learn. Gender and social empowerment has been
strengthened through special efforts. to involve women and marginalized communities in village-
based committees, viz. VECs and MTAs, which have been a catalyst in encouraging their
involvement in school management. Construction work, undertaken during the project period
through the VECs, has in turn, created new, though temporary, job opportunities for local masons
and daily laborers. Similarly, mobilization drives and awareness camps, in addition to meeting
their main objectives, have also helped to create new economic opportunities for the local people.
(b) The longer term impact of extending education to all would be reflected in terms of better



                                                 16

socio- economic development indicators which would in turn, result in higher social and
economic returns.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening


As detailed in Section 8.2 (f), the project played a significant role in strengthening institutional
capacity in the primary education sector in both states at the state, district, and sub-district levels.
The project also established administrative and management support systems such as Education
Management Information Systems (EMIS), Project Management Information Systems (PMIS)
and Project Financial Management Systems (PFMS).


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


On the other hand, as public education became more inclusive, with children from disadvantaged
groups and girls increasingly attending government schools, there was a growth in demand for
private education from affluent groups. The increasing enrolment of children from disadvantaged
groups to some extent 'crowded out' children from the affluent strata to private education, which
is not an uncommon phenomenon in other countries as well. It is expected that the decentralized
and participatory processes that have been instituted under the project would continue to ensure
that quality is addressed in the public education system.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


Though no formal stakeholder workshop was held during the ICR mission, the team had a chance
to engage with various stakeholders during issue-based focus group discussions (FGDs with
students in schools/AS/EGS centers, adolescent girls, VEC, PTA, and SMC members, and the
community in general. Various issues were covered including the school/learning environment,
student and teacher absenteeism, classroom practices and concerns regarding equity and learning.
Overall, the perceptions about gains from the project were positive among the community. The
details are given in Annex 9.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

As outlined in Section 7.1, various critical risks to the project were identified and mitigation
strategies examined at the project preparation stage itself. Though the ratings of risk were fairly
realistic at the time of appraisal, the critical risk ratings were not consistent throughout the
implementation period as is evident from the periodic Project Status Reports (PSRs). At the time
of project closure and the current evaluation, a few critical risks persist in terms of realizing and
sustaining the development outcomes. These are discussed below:


(i) Political risks: (a) While changes in policy environment was rated as a moderate risk at the
beginning of the project, by the end of the project and at the time of this evaluation, the chances
of any political or structural change affecting the outcomes of the project seem negligible. With


                                                   17

the recent Constitutional amendment making elementary education a fundamental right of all
children, and with the CSS -- Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) -- in place for UEE across the
country, the risk of diminishing government ownership and commitment is negligible. (b)
Effectiveness of PRIs in implementing education programs was rated as a substantial risk at the
time of appraisal. In the present context, the VECs have been given the responsibility to manage
the education sector deliverables, in conjunction with the PRIs. However, unless capacity issues
at the decentralized levels and low levels of awareness are urgently addressed, the risk of
effective management will be substantial.


(ii) Social Risks: Inadequacy of Supply and demand driven interventions for disadvantaged
groups was considered as a moderate social risk at the time of project appraisal. With successful
community mobilization initiatives, particularly with regard to the special focus groups, the
demand for education in the community is now clearly evident. This is more so in the case of UP.
While the challenge of getting the most difficult to reach groups of children into school still
exists, the planning and implementation processes have been put in place and will continue in
SSA, thereby providing enabling conditions for achievement of this goal. Therefore, the risk is
now negligible.


(iii) Technical risks identified are sustainability of pedagogical reforms instituted under the
project and continuing availability of text books to children. The pedagogical reforms are likely
to be sustained and extended further with continuing resource and technical support from SSA.
Regarding text book availability, the state governments' policy is to extend the project initiatives
of free text books to all children, thus reflecting political will. It is expected that once a benefit
such as this is institutionalized and made available to the community, it will be very difficult to
withdraw it later. Hence, these technical risks are rated to be low.


(iv) Institutional risks identified are lack of accountability among service providers and low
capacity at the decentralized levels to monitor and manage school education. Irregularity and low
teacher attendance, unless adequately addressed, can be detrimental to quality improvement and
achievement of outcomes. Both states have taken some measures to address this issue through (a)
giving responsibility to and training VECs to monitor teacher presence and school functioning,
(b) providing more on site support and monitoring through BRCs and NPRCs, and (c) issuing
orders to districts to avoid deployment of teachers in non-essential duties. However, the
effectiveness of these measures is at present fairly limited due to lack of both capacity and
inadequate devolution of authority to VECs and BRCs/ NPRCs for effective monitoring on one
hand and limited control over voluntary absenteeism on the other. Therefore, given these
considerations, the institutional risks are substantial.


(v) Financial / Economic risks in the form of Competing demands on limited state resources was
considered as limiting funds for long-term sustainability of changes in pedagogy, management
and organization: Given the continuity of the reforms introduced in the DPEP III, and sustained
through the SSA, there is an assured flow of funds from the Central Government to the State
Governments to carry out pedagogical, management and organizational reforms. The states'


                                                 18

contributions to the UP/UA DPEP III have also been regular, reflecting adequate political will.
The risk assessed here is low.


Overall, the rationale and rating for risks could be rated as moderate.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Satisfactory

Ensuring Quality at Entry: Bank's performance at entry is rated satisfactory for the following
reasons.


    1. The Bank brought in technical resource for various innovative aspects of the project as
        evident from the composition of the preparatory missions. These included technical
        experts in areas such as para-teachers, special focus groups, early childhood education
        etc.
    2. To make the project design context-specific and need-based, the Bank's team contributed
        to the design of the project through the inclusion of and support to the following studies:
        (a) Baseline Learning Assessments in selected districts; (b) Social Assessment Studies;
        (c) State Finance Study; and (d) the UP BEP I & II Sustainability Study and Transition
        Plan.
    3. The Bank brought in a focus on quality by identifying and getting the borrower to agree
        to a set of quality indicators in addition to the regular outcome and output indicators for
        the purpose of project monitoring.


(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:


The project was formally reviewed bi-annually through JRMs, described in section 7.3. In
addition, there was concurrent supervision through direct interaction with the borrower. The JRM
appears to have been an effective mechanism of supervision considering the fact that DPEP,
being a multi-donor program provided a cost-effective mechanism for supervision by lessening
the burden on the governments in terms of (a) reducing the duplication of similar efforts; (b)
ensuring better government-donor coordination; (c) facilitating the exchange of ideas and sharing
lessons from project implementation in different states; and (d) emphasizing measurable and
time-bound outcomes. However, the limitation of this mechanism was that (a) with a ceiling on
the number of persons participating, all required specializations often did not get adequate
coverage. Also, the Terms of Reference (TOR) of the JRM did not provide ample scope for


                                                19

review of the financial management aspect of the project due to the limited interest of other
agencies (Development Partners such as DFID and EC) in this aspect. Therefore, areas
like financial management and procurement did not get covered through this mechanism. This
gap was often addressed through FM reviews in states selected on a random basis. There was
some delay on the part of the Bank in the revision of legal agreements after the bifurcation of the
state which could have been avoided. However, the Bank task team and the SPDs of UP and UA
worked in close coordination, which contributed to it being considered as one of the more
successful of the series of DPEP projects.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Overall, the Bank's team played a facilitating role both at the beginning of the project to ensure
quality of the project design as well as through the implementation period by providing effective
supervision.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


    · Implementation performance: Leadership and ownership at all levels -- national, state,
        district and sub-district -- were major factors contributing to the positive outcomes of the
        program. As elaborated in sections 7.2 and 8.1, the MHRD's Elementary Education
        Bureau (EEB) effectively coordinated the implementation, supervision and evaluation of
        state and district programs to achieve the PDOs. A Technical Support Group (TSG) was
        set up to guide and support the states' technical, monitoring, and research efforts.
           Priority given to the project by the states was also evident right through the duration of
        the project in terms of regular financial contributions of state share and appointment and
        stability of tenure of senior and meritorious officials for the project at all levels. From the
        project documentation, it is evident that the borrower maintained a very formative
        approach in both states, towards project implementation through a regular process of
        mid-course corrections towards quality improvement. This is particularly evident in the
        case of the pedagogical renewal process that was followed as well as the school grading
        system.
    · Financial Management: During the initial years of the project, there were frequent delays
        in the release of funds by the GOI. However, the flow of funds from the State
        Governments (state share of 15 percent of the project outlays) was usually timely. At the
        same time, internal control weaknesses were reported over the life of the project. In the
        later years of the project, there was greater emphasis on improving the flow of funds to
        various levels, strengthening internal controls and developing procedural manuals. It
        would have also helped to institute an internal audit system from the start of the project to
        ensure that lapses of internal controls were identified and attended to by the Project in a
        timely manner. Intensive training of staff would have helped to upgrade the skills of



                                               20

        project staff and address some of these weaknesses. Overall, the GOI, GOUP and GOUA
        collaborated effectively in terms of financial management, transfer of funds, project
        supervision and provision of academic and technical support to the implementation
        society. Audit reports were generally submitted without delay. Both states consistently
        maintained high levels of disbursement and closed with almost 99 percent of the credit
        disbursed.
    · Procurement: Most of the procurement under the UP/UA DPEP III was at the sub-district
        and community levels. Major items of procurement were (a) at the village/ sub-district
        level: materials and labor for civil works and teaching -- learning aids and materials; (b)
        district level: library books; and (c) state level: computers and text books. The
        procurement procedures being followed were a mix of State Government purchase
        procedures and World Bank guidelines on procurement. Apart from minor deviations,
        both were found to be more or less in line with each other.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing Agency Performance
Uttar Pradesh Sabhi ke liye Shiksha Parishad
(Education for All Project Society)                                   Satisfactory
Uttaranchal Sabhi ke liye Shiksha Parishad
(Education for All Project Society)                                   Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, borrower performance could be rated satisfactory for the following reasons:


    · There was clear leadership and ownership at all levels, including at the national, state,
        project, district and sub-district levels. A distinct feature of UP/UA DPEP III project,
        compared to other DPEP projects, was the stability in tenure and seniority of state
        leadership in both states which contributed significantly to consistency and continuity of
        approach in project implementation.
    · The program was generally well-supervised and responsive to the involvement of funding
        agencies in improving project strategies, taking into account their bi-annual reviews and
        recommendations.
    · The project was well designed; incorporating key lessons from the experiences of
        implementing previous education sector projects, in particular those undertaken with
        Bank support.
    · Identification of key outcome measures/indicators and their monitoring were also
        instrumental in ensuring better project implementation.
    · The borrower's efforts to converge the project interventions with those of other
        government departments also contributed to the effectiveness of the project.



                                                21

    · The political will of the respective State Governments was evident in the regular support
        to the project in terms of state contributions/funding, staffing, convergence of funds and
        support to interventions.

11. Lessons Learned

The following provide a list of lessons learned from implementing the UP DPEP III.


    · Government ownership. Ownership of and interest in the program at all levels of the
        government is clearly a contributing factor.
    · Staff strength and continuity. Continuity of project staff, especially at state and district
        levels, is important for the process of project implementation to proceed smoothly.
    · Effective and sustained communication strategies need to be in place to ensure
        internalization of the reforms planned at the field levels. For this purpose, the links
        between different institutions at all levels -- state, district, and sub-district - need to be
        strengthened and the key roles and responsibilities of officials at each level further
        defined and institutionalized within the line department of the education system.
    · Decentralization of education management, although politically and administratively
        desirable, can only be successful if extensive investment is made in terms of technical
        and financial resources in building capacity and awareness creation. This has to be
        accompanied by greater devolution of authority and financial resources.
    · A strong M&E set-up is critical for continuous learning and for assessing outcomes.
        While it is critical to have rigorous and well validated mechanisms in place for data
        collection and compilation with regard to project outcomes and monitoring indicators, the
        analysis can benefit from a more multi-disciplinary approach. This will facilitate the
        culture of analysis and the use of data to be further strengthened.
    · Ensuring baseline in the first year of the project itself and integrating the M&E
        mechanism into the borrower's own system would ensure better sustainability, ownership
        and utilization of the outcomes.
    · Community engagement. Community engagement and support should go beyond mere
        involvement in developing of the school facility to wider issues related to school
        management and students' learning. With low literacy levels among the community, use
        of visual and folk media can be more productive.
    · Training in financial management functions is important at all levels. With the
        procurement in projects like DPEP being concentrated at the sub-district levels, training
        of VECs and school personnel in financial management becomes important.
    · Joint Review Mission is an effective multi-donor review mechanism. However, it could
        be improved further through expanding its terms of reference to cover financial
        and procurement aspects as well as governance and policy issues such as teacher
        absenteeism, accountability etc which have direct implications for achievement of
        outcomes.
    · Periodic beneficiary surveys would help to align the project content with demand side
        expectations and improve community ownership and participation.



                                                22

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


Issues raised by Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) in its comments on the
ICR report:


GOI has endorsed the ICR except for the following two issues:


(1) SCERT's evaluation should not be considered 'in-house' "since it is an independent
organization and is not functioning under the State Implementation Society" (SIS).


ICR Team response: While it is correct that SCERT is not under the SIS, it has been closely
involved in the implementation of the project, especially for the components related to training
and curriculum. It has also benefited from the project in terms of capacity building. In that sense,
it is not strictly a third party.


(2) In para 8.5(c) of the report, it is stated that increased enrolment of children from
disadvantaged groups to some extent 'crowded out' children from the affluent strata to private
education. There is no evidence to this statement.


ICR Team response: The MHRD comment itself endorses the fact that "more children from
disadvantaged groups are enrolling in schools". With evidence of increase in private school
enrolment available in the state (about 20 percent), it can naturally be deduced that the proportion
of children from disadvantaged groups in government schools is higher than it used to be. This is
further confirmed by the field visits, where children seen in the schools were largely from poorer
background. The comment in the ICR was not intended as a criticism; on the contrary, it was
meant to establish the fact that public provision was targeting the poor as intended.


(b) Cofinanciers


Not Applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders



Not applicable.




                                                  23

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to assist the GOUP in its efforts to build capacity
to ensure that all 6-10-year-old children in 42 districts of the (undivided UP) state, particularly
those from socially disadvantaged groups, complete a five-year primary education cycle of
appropriate quality. The project was also expected to contribute to further increasing the
geographical coverage of the Bank-assisted UPBEP I and II and DPEP II. Since 2003 after
bifurcation of UP, the project covers both states, Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                  Original
                                              Target Values       Formally       Actual Value

  Indicator           Baseline Value                (from         Revised         Achieved at

                                                  approval         Target   Completion or Target

                                                documents)         Values             Years

Indicator 1 : Percent increase in GER and retention by Girls, SC/ST.
                                                                            GER (Overall, girls) %
Value
               GER(Overall):91 percent        No target                     UP 99.6, 102.4 UA
(quantitative
               GER (Girls) : 82 percent       specified in                  102.1, 101.9 Drop Out
or
               Dropout rate : 45 percent      PAD                           Rate (overall) % UP 16,
Qualitative)
                                                                            UA 1.2
Date
               03/31/1999                     09/30/2005                    03/30/2006
achieved
Comments
               Overall GER increased by 8.6 % points in UP and by 11.1 % points in UA over
(incl. %
               baseline. Girls' GER increase is by 20 % points in UP by 15.4% points in UA.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Percent gains in learning achievement in Mathematics and Language
               Grade IV/V:Language                                          G- IV/V:Lang (O, G)
               (Overall, girls) UP: 45.8,                                   UP: 64, 63.8 UA: 54.5,
Value
               28.4 UA: 48.7 Maths UP         No target                     58.5 Maths UP 54.9,
(quantitative
               30.3, 26.0 UA 31.5 Grade       specified in                  54.6 UA 46.1, 46 G-
or
               I/II Lang UP 58.2, 57.1 UA PAD                               I/II Lang UP 82.9, 82
Qualitative)
               64.4 Maths UP 62.1, 58.5                                     UA 75.6, 75 Maths UP
               UA 66.0                                                      84, 83 UA 77, 76.5
Date
               03/31/1999                     09/30/2005                    03/30/2006
achieved



                                               24

Comments
             Overall, there is a gain in learning levels for both Language and Maths, for grades
(incl. %
             I/II and IV/V in both states. The gains are higher in UP.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                       Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

  Indicator      Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                           approval            Target    Completion or Target
                                          documents)           Values             Years
Indicator 1 : Average district teacher-student ratios
Value
                                    No target specified
(quantitative
              1:65                  in PAD; State norm                   UP: 1:50 UA: 1:38
or
                                    is 1: 45 in UP.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/1999            09/30/2005                           01/12/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Number of socially disadvantaged children, disaggregated by girls, SC, ST,
Indicator 2 :
              mainstreamed into the formal primary education system
Value         5.4 million children                                       UP: 0.55 million
(quantitative out of school         No target specified                  children out of school.
or            (combined for both in PAD                                  UA: 575 children out of
Qualitative)  states)                                                    school
Date achieved 03/31/1999            09/30/2005                           01/12/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                             25

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)
N/A




                                   26

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                           Appraisal
               Components                  Estimate      Actual/Latest Percentage of

                                           (USD M)     Estimate (USD M) Appraisal

EXPANDING ACCESS TO AND
INCREASING RETENTION LEVELS IN                  73.70             84.70     114.93
PRIMARY EDUCATION.
IMPROVING QUALITY OF CLASSROOM
PROCESSES AND ENHANCING                         52.90             49.80      94.14
LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT LEVELS.
IMPROVING STATE, DISTRICT AND
SUB-DISTRICT CAPACITY TO MANAGE                 70.60             77.50     109.77
PRIMARY EDUCATION.
                      Total Baseline Cost      197.20            212.00
Physical Contingencies                          15.60
Price Contingencies                               1.90
                      Total Project Costs      214.70
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00             0.00       0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00             0.00       0.00
                Total Financing Required       214.70            212.00



(b) Financing


                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds           Type of                                Percentage of
                             Cofinancing    Estimate     Estimate (USD
                                            (USD M)           M)        Appraisal

 Borrower                                        32.30            31.85      98.61
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                     182.40           180.15      98.77
ASSOCIATION




                                         27

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            28

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Project Component 1: With respect to increasing enrollment and retention:


Increased number of student places created: The UP/UA DPEP III has contributed significantly
to improving infrastructure facilities for primary education in the project districts. In both states,
new primary schools and EGS were set up under the project. In UP, 2,502 new schools and 5,224
EGS/AS were established, and in convergence with the SSA and other programs, the gap in
access in the state has been narrowed. In UA, 463 new schools were started under DPEP III, and
a total of 630 EGS, 74 AS and 8 Maqtab Madarsas were established over the period in the 6
project districts At present, in these districts, more than 96 percent of habitations are covered by a
primary school facility. As a result of the growth in schooling facilities, the share of out-of-school
children in the total child population of 6-10 years in UA is now only 1.69 percent as per the
State's own household survey, while in UP, the share is higher, at 8 to 9 percent. (Baseline share
is not available to estimate the exact reduction)


Increased number of qualified teachers, para-teachers and alternative schooling instructors, and
thus improved student-teacher ratios: At the start of the project, the average PTR in the state
(undivided UP) was 1:65. Since adverse PTRs are detrimental to teaching quality, the high PTR
in the state was highlighted as an important indicator to be closely monitored under the project. In
UP, 2,736 regular teachers and 12,975 Shiksha Mitras have been appointed since the start of the
project. In addition, 5,691 instructors were recruited by VECs to manage the EGS/AS centers. In
UA, about 2,000 regular and para-teachers have been recruited since the commencement of the
project; the PTR in UP has come down to 1:50 in the project districts. Likewise, in UA, the PTR
has come down to 1:37, with 4 out of 6 project districts in the state reporting a PTR of less than
1:25.


Enhanced support from and involvement of VECs and community members in achieving universal
primary education: The constitution of VECs has been dovetailed with UP's Panchayati Raj Act.
In UP, 26,793 VECs and 4,065 Ward Education Committees (WECs) were constituted and
trained under the UP DPEP III. In addition, 2,819 MTAs and 1,108 WMGs were established and
trained under the DPEP III in UP. In UA, 7,220 VECs and 12,845 SMCs were established and
15,438 VEC and 17,922 SMC members trained under the project. The UP SPO reported that
VECs met regularly and discussed school development plans. VECs played a significant role in
fielding the household survey for out-of-school children, enrolling them in schools, micro
planning, constructing new schools, renovating existing schools and constructing additional
classrooms, running Alternative Centers, selecting and appointing para teachers/ Acharya jis, and
providing volunteer teachers to improve the quality of education. In UP, specific initiatives were
reported highlighting the pro-active role of VECs, such as the construction of boundary walls
/classrooms and providing space to AS and EGS centers. The UA SPO reported on the positive
role of VECs, SMCs and MTAs in implementing the program at the village and school level.




                                                  29

Project Component 2: With respect to improving the quality of education:


Improvement in teaching -- learning conditions and classroom practices: In UP/UA, DPEP III
has contributed significantly to an improvement in learning conditions in the project districts in
terms of enhancing infrastructure and resources. In addition, the quality of learning has
improved with the increased availability of teaching -- learning materials/aids, improved
textbooks, regular training of teachers and the provision of on-site support from NPRCs (cluster
resource centers). These interventions are being further augmented through SSA funds in order
to meet the increase in demand for enrolment during the last year. Most of the schools in the hill
districts are small multi-grade schools because of the dispersed population in these areas; these
schools provide a field laboratory to experiment with an innovative multi-grade methodology.
The state has piloted some experimental programs in this area.


Improvements in the pedagogical support systems for teachers: The project set up new
institutions such as BRCs and CRCs (known as NPRCs) in UP and UA, and strengthened the
SCERT and DIETs in order to provide onsite academic supervision and support to teachers,
through continuous training, professional support and the development of local specific
instructional materials for students and teachers. In both states an academic resource chain of
support was envisaged, and roles defined accordingly. This vertical chain was constituted from
the bottom up: the school-NPRC-BRC-DIET-SCERT. The DIETs are expected to provide
academic leadership at the district level and thus become a crucial link between the district / sub-
districts and state level institutions.


Project Component 3: With respect to improving capacity at the state, district and sub-district
(including the school and community) levels to sustain the pedagogical, managerial and
organizational improvements after project completion:


Useful EMIS, PMIS and PFMS for the formulation of state and district AWPB and state and
district institutions and/ or groups effectively implementing their assigned pedagogical and
managerial tasks: The AWPB is prepared annually at the district level in both UP and UA using
data collected by the NPRCs and later collated by the BRCs. The household survey documents
were found in the schools and NPRCs visited. The planning capacity at all levels increased during
the period of the UP DPEP III; this practice has become part of the routine that will be sustained
beyond the life of the project. However, schools and VECs play a marginal role in developing the
AWPB, and micro planning exercises are rarely carried out. This lack of participation is not
necessarily due to a lack of capacity at these levels but rather the apprehension that the process of
community participation would delay the submission of the AWPB beyond the time limit
prescribed by the program management. On the other hand, limited participation takes the form of
requests by the VECs (in the form of letters), which are sent to the DPOs through the NPRCs and
the BRCs, and attempts are made to accommodate such requests.




                                                30

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)


Review of the economic analysis presented in the PAD: Though the economic analysis at the
appraisal stage of the project did not quantify a specified economic rate of return (ERR) or
attempt to estimate a net present value (NPV) of future benefits, the possibilities of how the
project could benefit overall, and through efficient means, were detailed in literal terms (under
cost benefit / effectiveness analysis). The positive and determinant role of literacy and schooling
in explaining differences in rates of economic growth across the states and earnings capacity of
individuals have already been demonstrated in a number of studies on India and other parts of the
world using techniques ranging from economic rate of return (ERR) analysis to decomposition of
economic growth analysis.


In the case of UP/UA, the benefits of expanding and improving publicly provided primary
schooling were expected to largely accrue to children in the lowest income groups and those from
marginalized communities. As the analysis in PAD indicates, less than 10 percent of the children
in private schools were from the marginalized sections of society. The annual average cost for a
household for providing primary schooling to a child in UP amounted to Rs. 622 (estimated from
NSS 52nd round, 1996). However, this figure was only Rs.275 for a child enrolled in a
government school, where more than 70 percent of the children from the lower economic
quintiles study. The main item of expenditure is books (which constitutes one quarter of the total
household expenditure on education of the lowest 20 percent of the households). The cost of
accessing government schooling is shared by the government and households. By providing free
books for girls and establishing book banks, the project was expected to reduce the cost of
schooling for the poor and increase the perceived net benefits.


Investments


State-level investments in primary education by the states of UP and UA, mainly through non-
plan expenditure, that existed prior to the project period were expected to be maintained during
the project at least the same level for infrastructure and enrolments. The additional investment
made by the UP/UA DPEP III in the 42 districts was expected to improve access to schooling and
infrastructure, and thus bring in more students to school and retain them till they complete at least
five years of quality primary education. The UP/UA DPEP III invested resources equaling US$
214.7 million (with the Bank contributing USD 182.4 million and the balance -- USD 32.3
million -- coming from the state governments) in primary education in 36 districts of UP and 6
districts of UA. The project components for which resources were allocated included: (i)
increasing access and developing infrastructure, such as classrooms, water supply and sanitation
facilities; (ii) developing human resources such as teachers/ para-teachers, and training them, and
appointing state and district level education officials; (iii) investing in quality inputs, such as
textbooks and teaching-learning materials; (iv) establishing education resource centers at the
cluster and block levels; (v) introducing incentive systems, such as child-friendly elements in
schools, to attract and retain children; (vi) introducing measures to strengthen the institutional
framework, in particular state and sub-state levels institutions, such as SCERTs, SIEMATs, and



                                                 31

DISEs; (vii) introducing initiatives to decentralize education management and enhance
community participation in schools; (viii) making special provisions for disadvantaged children
through the establishment of AS and EGS; and (ix) providing support for innovative educational
activities. The average investment per student under the UP/UA DPEP III amounted to US$ 39
over the project period or US$ 7.8 per additional student per year.


Outputs


The UP/UA DPEP III produced a wide range of outputs. Total primary enrolment increased from
about 8.6 million students in 2001-02 to around 13.3 million students in 2006. Dropout and
repetition rates were reduced, and the primary school completion rate increased during the project
period as already described (see 8.2). Learning achievement levels have also improved, although
have not reached the ambitious targets set by the Government of India. Overall, the projects
appear to have had a positive impact on expanding primary enrolment, completion and learning
levels. However, as Sipahimalani-Rao and Clarke (2003) point out in the context of the DPEP I
and II, project targets were unrealistically high, given the low initial conditions in the project
districts. The JRMs and studies carried out note that the project promoted a series of capacity
building and institutional strengthening activities and measures. These included improving the
quality of textbooks, improving the professional quality of teachers, strengthening classroom
practices, and improving education planning, administration and management at the state and
district levels. The introduction of joyful learning, child-centered instruction and the use of
instructional aids had a strong impact on classroom environment. The cluster and block resource
centers provided teachers and local education officials opportunities for training, experience
sharing and mutual learning. The development of an EMIS for DPEP districts, and the reporting
formats and activities used in the projects, have advanced education planning, management and
administration in the DPEP states and districts far beyond the level of non-DPEP areas. As a
consequence, the SSA program is easier to implement in DPEP regions than in other areas.


Benefit stream


The UP/UA DPEP III is expected to yield substantial future economic benefits. It has increased
primary school enrolments and the rate of primary school completion in the state. As a result, a
larger proportion of the labor force in UP and UA will have at least a primary school education.


The following are the steps and assumptions used in estimating the benefit stream for the cost
benefit analysis:


·      As this analysis was conducted after the project was completed, and after the publication
of the Census 2001 district wise and age-group wise population figures, the total child population
figures for 6-10-year-olds in the project districts are available. To estimate the child population in
the subsequent project years and for beneficiary period, a 10- year average population growth rate
for these age groups is used to estimate projections until 2050.




                                                32

· Similarly, primary school enrolment figures for the project districts drawn from EMIS are
used for estimating the number of beneficiaries. Using current trends, the GER is also projected
for future years, i.e. until 2050. Similarly, using EMIS data, completion rates were used and the
number likely to complete primary school projected.


·      Using data from the NSS 55th Round on Employment and Unemployment, a wage
equation was estimated to compute the wages associated with different levels of schooling.
However, as project data only provide information on completed levels of primary school rather
than on particular grades completed in schools, the economic benefits were calculated as that
arising from increased wages due to completing primary schooling. However, this is an
underestimate as no benefit is assigned to less than 5 years of schooling. Finally, it is assumed
that after the first five years of the project, better quality schooling could result in an increase in
wages from 0-10 percent. Projected inflation rates are also used to project wages.


Cost Stream


The estimated direct costs of the project comprise project investment, the public and private cost
of each additional pupil-year, and the opportunity cost of retaining each student in school for an
additional year. The estimated economic cost of the project includes the private cost of education
for students. The opportunity cost of a student's time was also factored into the total cost. This is
estimated to be the wages foregone by the student because she/he is attending school instead of
working. Using these assumptions, the project yields an internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
of 14.78 percent (Table 1). The Net Present Value has been calculated based on a discount rate
of 12 percent.


                          Table 1: Internal Economic Rate of Return
                                                         Net Present Value
                       Benefit stream                    US$7.12 billion
                       Cost stream                       US$5.74 billion
                       Net benefit stream                US$1.38 billion
                       IRR                               14.78 percent

                      It is assumed that the economic and financial rates of return are the same.


It should be noted that the real rate of return is likely to be somewhat higher, reflecting positive
externalities and longer-term inter-generational social benefits that accompany higher levels of
education, including lower fertility rates and improved health outcomes to which it is difficult to
assign monetary values.


Sensitivity Analysis


Rates of return are also computed on the basis of alternative assumptions regarding the internal
and external efficiencies of the system. For the purpose of this analysis (a) dropout and repetition
rates are utilized as proxies, and changes in internal efficiency are assumed to be captured by



                                                      33

changes in dropout, repetition and completion rates, and hence the percentage of beneficiaries;
and (b) the potential incremental wage for even the existing expected beneficiaries due to overall
increase in wages due to economic growth of the country. While these distinctions are somewhat
artificial, they provide us with some interesting conclusions about changes in rates of return based
on different assumptions regarding system efficiency.

A simulation of three alternative scenarios with different share of net beneficiaries (ranging from
30 % to 50 % of those enrolled under DPEP III and who completed five years of primary
education) and three different scenarios of wage increase due to economic growth (from just 1%
wage growth to 10%) were carried out. Under even fairly modest assumptions regarding the net
benefits from the project, rates of return from the project were high. These ranged from 5 % in the
lowest case scenario to around 20 % when half of the students benefit and the economy boom.

                                                   Net Beneficiaries
                               30% of those       40% of those          50% of those
           Scenario            enrolled           enrolled              enrolled
                               additionally       additionally          additionally
                               under DPEP III     under DPEP III        under DPEP III

     Overall       0%                 4.89               6.80                 8.55

      Wage         1%                 5.70               7.77                 9.69
 increase due
 to economic       5%                 8.64               11.42                14.17

     growth        10%               12.02               15.90                19.96


Clearly, the future economic benefits resulting from the project are potentially high. Moreover,
the above estimated rates of return are conservative and under-estimations of the actual/real rate
of return. As the demand for post-primary education increases with the spread of primary
education, an additional benefit of the project would be to increase the supply of workers with
secondary and higher education. Also, the benefits of the project would last beyond the project
period. The infrastructure built and capacities developed under the project would benefit
generations of students even after the direct beneficiaries of the project have completed their
schooling.




                                               34

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title              Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Syed I. Ahmed          Lead Counsel           LEGMS           Legal issues
                                                              Education Sector
Prema Clarke          Sr Education Spec.      SASHD
                                                              Analysis
Gertrude Cooper       Program Assistant       SASHD
Renu Gupta            Program Assistant       SASHD
                                                              Education Team Leader
Edward H. Heneveld     Consultant             QAG
                                                              IN
                      Lead Education                          Economic & Sector
James Keith Hinchliffe                        AFTH3
                      Economist                               Analysi
                      Senior Social
Rie Hiraoka                                   SASHP           Social Assessment
                      Development Spec
                                                              Education Sector
Susan E. Hirshberg     Sr Education Spec.     SASHD
                                                              Analysis
Hiroko Imamura        Sr Counsel              LEGMS           Legal issues
                                                              Education Sector
N. K. Jangira         Consultant              SASHD
                                                              Analysis
Venita Kaul            Sr Education Spec.     SASHD           Co-Task Leader
Santhanam Krishnan    Consultant              SARPS           Procurement issues
Rajat Narula           Senior Finance Officer LOAG2           FM analysis
Sudesh Ponnappa       Program Assistant       EACNF
Juan Prawda           Consultant              OPCIL           Task Leader
                      Lead Education
Robert S. Prouty                              HDNED           Peer Reviewer
                      Specialist
Kalpana Seethepalli    E T Consultant         EASIN           Research Analyst
Eduardo Velez Bustillo Sector Manager         LCSHE           Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Sushil Kumar Bahl      Sr Procurement Spec.   SARPS           Procurement Specialist
Sunil Batra            Consultant             SASHD           15th JRM Member
Asha Bhagat           Consultant              SARFM           ICR - FM issues
Vincent M. Greaney     Consultant             MNSHD           14th JRM Member
Renu Gupta            Program Assistant       SASHD
Edward H. Heneveld     Consultant             QAG             13th JRM Member



                                           35

        Names                  Title                  Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
N. K. Jangira          Consultant             SASHD               19th JRM Member
Oza Jayshree           Consultant             SASHD               ICR Mission
Arun R. Joshi          Sr Education Spec.     AFTH1               ICR Team Leader
Venita Kaul            Sr Education Spec.     SASHD               Task Team Leader
                       Lead Human
Qaiser M. Khan                                SASHD               Peer Reviewer
                       Development Spec.
                       Sr Financial
Tanuj Mathur                                  SARFM               FM Specialist
                       Management Spec.
Benoit Millot          Lead Education Spec.   SASHD               Peer Reviewer
Juan Prawda            Consultant             OPCIL               18th JRM Member
Michelle Riboud        Sector Manager         SASHD               Sector Manager
                                                                  17th JRM and ICR
Deepa Sankar           Education Economist    SASHD
                                                                  Mission
Niti Saxena            Consultant             SASHD               ICR Mission
                                                                  Operations Advisor
Shashi K. Shrivastava Sr Education Spec.      SASHD
                                                                  SASHD
Bertha Mburugu         Program Assistant      SASHD



(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived          DO              IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/15/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
2   12/21/2000              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            11.21
3   06/07/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            35.98
4   12/28/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            56.40
5   06/27/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            77.02
6   12/23/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            83.80
7   05/26/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           100.32
8   11/21/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           110.36
9   05/26/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           124.10
10 11/30/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           131.37
11 12/24/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           131.37
12 06/13/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           148.95
13 12/09/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           150.39
14 04/13/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           179.05


(c) Staff Time and Cost



                                          36

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY98                                                       10.35
                   FY99                                                      159.53
                   FY00                                    55                153.64
                   FY01                                     7                 -1.09
                   FY02                                                         0.00
                   FY03                                                         0.00
                   FY04                                                         0.04
                   FY05                                                         0.00
                   FY06                                                         0.00
                   FY07                                                         0.00
                                   Total:                  62                322.47
Supervision/ICR
                   FY98                                                         0.00
                   FY99                                                         0.00
                   FY00                                     6                 24.53
                   FY01                                     5                 24.33
                   FY02                                    21                 56.19
                   FY03                                     4                 15.72
                   FY04                                     7                 31.36
                   FY05                                    15                 33.77
                   FY06                                    15                 49.88
                   FY07                                     2                 11.95
                                   Total:                  75                247.73




                                     37

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory       Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                        38

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)
N/A




                                          39

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Though no formal stakeholder workshop was held during the ICR mission, the team had a chance
to engage the various stakeholders in specific issue-based focus group discussions (FGDs). FGDs
were organized in Tehri Garwal and Haridwar districts in UA and Barabanki district in UP, with
students in the schools visited, adolescent girls, VEC/ PTA/ SMC members, and the community
in general. Various issues were covered ranging from the school environment, student and teacher
absenteeism, classroom practices, to equity and learning issues. Details are given below.


Interaction with Children


As always, the interaction with school children was extremely informative. They were well
informed about the incentives (amount, regularity, frequency, etc.) being given to them to attend
school. Clearly the interaction of parents with teachers was limited to occasions when they come
to collect the scholarship or are called by the teachers for a specific administrative reason. While
in UA children were certain that there were no out of school children, in UP children did talk
about other children who had not been attending school. The reasons cited ranged from
disinterest, work pressure and poor health to seasonal migration. In both formal schools and AS
centers, children were aware of the teaching-learning materials in the classrooms but were not
comfortable using them. Children were happy with the positive infrastructural changes in the
school and as Anjali, a Class 4 student in UA noted: "school mein saaf, safai rehti hai, kursi
table hai and biscuit bhi milta hai -- ab school aana aur bhi aacha lagta hai (School is neat and
clean, there are chairs and tables for us and now we get biscuits also -- now I like coming to
school even more)3


There were striking differences between the children from the two states in terms of their pattern
of behavior and reading level. Children from the primary schools in UA were more alert,
forthcoming and interactive. They also had satisfactory reading skills. However, this was not the
case with children from the schools visited in UP. The inhibitions of children from the poorest
groups participating in the group exercises reflected the level of discrimination and exclusion
being faced by them.


It was interesting to interact with children from the two AIEs (one in Haridwar, UA and the other
in Barabanki, UP) operating in Muslim populated hamlets. At both the sites the reading exercises
with the children were a delight to the team. Other than their regular textbooks, children could
also read story books provided by UNICEF, with ease.




3 In this school children are being given a packet of biscuits daily under an initiative being undertaken by a corporate

agency



                                                         40

FGDs with Adolescent Girls


Focus group discussions with adolescent girls were also interesting and covered an array of issues
related to their lives. A significant outcome of the discussions with these groups of girls was that
they were able to recollect changes that had happened over the duration of the project - 'then' to
'now' - a clear indication of the progress under DPEP. Pertinent issues were discussed at length
including the importance of education in their lives, progress made in terms of girls education,
etc. The girls were bright and articulate. They, like other community members, confirmed the
increased participation of girls in primary education. Some of the girls were alumni of the
primary schools visited by the mission. They noted the visible changes in the schools, primarily
in terms of infrastructure development, provision of incentives and changes in teaching-learning
methodologies. The feeling of not being part of this process of change at the primary school level
was evident in all the FGDs. Girls also talked about the gender discrimination they faced at home
and outside. Inputs on gender issues given by groups like Meena Manch, were evident in the level
of awareness and the attitudes of the girls.


Discussions with VEC/PTA/SMC


Discussions with members of the PTAs, SMCs and VECs indicate that presently the community
is more involved in contributing to and completing civil works and physical infrastructure
maintenance. There were only a few VEC members who were clear about their roles and
responsibilities and were committed to providing schooling to the underprivileged and deprived
children. VECs/ SMCs have been constituted in every village under the chairpersonship of the
Pradhan [PRI head]. However, only a small number of VECs are active depending on the interest
and commitment of the Pradhan and his relationship with the school teacher. Most of the
members of other groups (WMGs/ MTAs/ PTAs) were unaware that they were members of VECs
or of their roles and responsibilities. It was clear from the discussions that due to village level
politics, the socially marginalized groups are still not included in local decision-making bodies.


School Chalo Abhiyan [Let's go to school program] and Prabhat Pheri [morning parades] have
become annual rituals for school functionaries. It was felt that these are necessary as they mark
the commencement of the new academic session in July as well as to motivate those who have
not been sending their wards to school.


Interactions with the community


In both states, at the outset community members acknowledged the positive changes in the
educational environment around them. Discussions with community members revealed that over
the past five years there had been a multiple increase in the number of children enrolled in
primary schools in UP and UA, of whom the majority are from disadvantaged groups viz. girls,
SC/ST, minorities, differently able children, etc. They also noted the improvement in school
buildings, incentives, etc. The recent increase in private schools was also discussed. While there
were no complaints about the quality of teaching, it was felt that private schooling is qualitatively


                                                 41

better and computer ke zamane mein' [in the age of computers] it is natural to prefer private
schools over government run schools. The teaching of English and computers are the two main
attractions in private schools. During discussions, the Van Gujjars (a tribal sub-group) in UA
were appreciative of the fact that an AIE has been set up for their children in such a remote area;
however, they still felt alienated from social processes of the mainstream.


Parents unanimously talked about the inadequate number of teachers. In one of the schools in
UA which was staffed entirely by lady teachers, mothers complained about the lack of male
teachers; according to them, male teachers are better equipped to teach mathematics and English.
Mothers were pleased that the ECCE had been shifted within the school premises. They also
talked about the reduction in gender disparities which they had witnessed in recent times.


While most parents had no complaints about the Mid Day Meal scheme, a mothers group (all SC)
in one FGD rejected the teachers' claim of serving hot' and varied' meals to children; according to
them, children were getting half cooked rice and dal every day, and had been throwing their food
away. However, all the community members were positive about the impact of the Mid Day Meal
scheme in bringing down social barriers within the school campus.


According to community members, awareness and mobilization campaigns have been effective in
building an enabling environment and mobilizing the community to play a proactive role in
enrolling and retaining children in schools. However, it is clear that these interventions are yet to
ensure that the concept of ownership of schools' permeates within the community and that the
community's involvement and motivation are sustained.




                                               42

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Summary of Borrower's ICR (see Annex 13)


Borrower's Comments on draft ICR received from Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Department of School Education & Literacy vide their letter no. F.9-16/2006-EE.14 dated
October 6, 2006.


Government of India generally agrees with the draft ICR except in respect of the following:


In para 8.2(b) of the report it is stated that the TAS results are inconsistent with the assessment
done during field visit of ICR Mission. Also in UP, BAS, MAS and TAS were carried out of
SCERT which is more like an 'in house' evaluation rather than a 'third party' evaluation. It is felt
that to overturn the results of survey conducted by a professional agency on the basis of a visit to
one or two schools by ICR Mission is arbitrary. In respect of UP SCERT was involved in
evaluation, not only at the time of BAS and MAS of DPEP-III but also in conducting learner's
achievement surveys under DPEP-II. The issue of SCERT being 'in house' was never raised
earlier. Moreover SCERT is an independent organization and is not functioning under State
Implementation Society. The evaluation by SCERT therefore qualifies to be a reliable and
dependable study.


In para 8.5(c) of the report, it is stated that increased enrolment of children from disadvantaged
groups to some extent 'crowded out' children from the affluent strata to private education. There
is no evidence to this statement. In fact elsewhere in the report, it is stated that 65% of all
schools in the project districts are Government School. It could only be inferred that more
children from disadvantaged groups are enrolling in schools and improved availability of
Government Schools in villages and slum pockets, has helped them to join the education system.




                                                  43

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                       44

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Project Concept Note, [March 13, 1999]
2.  Project Appraisal Document, [November 15, 1999]
3.  Project Information Document [October 05, 1999]
4.  Joint Review Mission Aide Memoires 13th to 22nd JRM (10 JRMs)
5.  ISR -01 dated 06/15/2000
6.  ISR -02 dated 12/21/2000
7.  ISR -03 dated 06/07/2001
8.  ISR -04 dated 12/28/2001
9.  ISR -05 dated 06/27/2002
10. ISR -06 dated 12/23/2002
11. ISR -07 dated 05/26/2003
12. ISR -08 dated 11/21/2003
13. ISR -09 dated 05/26/2004
14. ISR -10 dated 11/30/2004
15. ISR -11 dated 12/24/2004
16. ISR -12 dated 06/13/2005
17. ISR -13 dated 12/09/2005
18. Evaluation study of VEC in School Management in DPEP III (With Special Reference to
    Community Participation in School f unctioning), Society for Action Vision and Enterprise
    (SAVE), Lucknow, May 2003
19. A Cohort Study to estimate Completion rate in DPEP III districts, SCERT, Lucknow,
    January 2003
20. Report on -- Children and Story Telling; State Project Office, Lucknow; August 2002
21. Role of Private schools in expanding Primary Education -- Siddarth Nagar Experience;
    Society for Action Vision and Ente rprise (SAVE), Lucknow; January 2000
22. Regaining their lost smiles -- The initiative towards improved retention of girls in UP; SPO,
    EFA Project Board, Uttar Pradesh; April 2001
23. Textbook based, Practice focused Teacher Training: III -- Sadhan; EFA Project, Lucknow;
    April 2001
24. Vikalp: Learning Improvement Project; EFA Project, Lucknow; April 2001
25. Evaluation study of Para teachers in DPEP III District -- Faizabad & Sultanpur;
    Independent Evaluative work for SIE MAT
26. The Evaluation Study of Teacher Training and Support System in DPEP III -- In Uttar
    Pradesh; Peetal Basti Dastkar Assoc iation, Mooradabad, UP; Initiated in December 2002
27. Role Identification of Strategies/Practices for making ABSAs Effective Block Education
    Officer for Improving Access, Re tention and Quality of Primary and Upper Primary
    Education; Society for Action Vision and Enterprise (SAVE), Lucknow; March 2005
28. Pre-Post Evaluation of Remedial Teaching in Primary Schools of Uttar Pradesh; MODE
    Services Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi; July 2 005
29. Evaluation Study of Alternative Schooling in DPEP III districts; Vyast Samvikas Samiti,
    Moradabad; November 2003



                                             45

30. Mid-Term Assessment Study -- DPEP III, 36 districts; SCERT, Lucknow; September 2003
31. Evaluation of the role of Village Education Committee in School Management in Districts
    under DPEP in Uttaranchal (With Special reference to community participation); Society
    for Action Vision and Enterprise (SAVE), Lucknow; June 2004
32. Report on Impact of In-service Training on Primary School teachers in Uttaranchal; Centre
    for Rural Studies, Gaziabad; March 2005
33. Midterm Assessment Study of DPEP for District Tehri; Institute of Administrative
    Research, Mussoorie, Uttaranchal; May 2004
34. Midterm Assessment Study of DPEP for Bhageshwar District -- Facilitating Blossoming of
    Human capabilities; National Ins titute of Administrative Research, Mussoorie,
    Uttaranchal; March 2004
35. Impact of in-service Training of Teachers -- A study of DPEP schools in districts; DIET,
    Almora; 2004
36. Impact of Para Teachers - A study of DPEP schools in Bhageswar and Haridwar district of
    Uttaranchal; DIET, Almora




                                            46

Annex 13: Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal District Primary Education Project (UP/UA DPEP-III)


1. Background

The UP/UA DPEP III was originally planned to be implemented in 42 districts in the state of
Uttar Pradesh (UP). However, with the bifurcation of the state, through an Act of Parliament,
Uttaranchal (UA) was created November 2000 with some districts transferred to UA. The project
was accordingly reoriented to cover 36 districts of Uttar Pradesh and 6 districts of Uttaranchal.
The duration of the project was from April, 2000 to March, 2006.

The project was originally scheduled to close on September 30, 20005; however, a proposal for
extension of the project from October 1, 2005 to March 31, 2006, with additional allocation of
funds for new activities, was sanctioned by the Government of India. The outlay of the UP/UA
DPEP-III extension plan was Rs. 232.95 crore for UP; the project cost for Uttaranchal was
revised twice to Rs 158.89 crore in 2005-06.

2. Project objectives

The overall objective of the project is to progress towards all 6-10-year-old children in 36
districts of UP and 6 districts of UA, especially from disadvantaged groups (SC, ST, OBC,
children with special needs), completing a five-year primary education cycle of appropriate
quality.

The project components for both the states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal were:

1. Expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary education, especially for
    children from disadvantaged groups
2. Improving the quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement levels in
    primary education
3. Improving state, district, and sub-district capacity to mange primary education

3. Achievements

3.1. Expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary education, especially for
children from disadvantaged groups.
A primary objective of the UP/UA DPEP III was to reduce differences in enrolment, dropout and
learning achievement among gender and social groups to less than 5%. In UP, at the start of the
project, out of 5.4 million children out of school, 1.3 million were SCs, 3.3 million girls, and a
sizeable population was from the minority religious community. Gender gap in the enrolment of
boys and girls in UP has reduced from 16% in 1999-2000 to 4% in 2005-06 (Source: Directorate
of Basic Education); i.e., the proportion of girls in total enrolment has increased from 42% to
48%. The percentage of SC enrolment in total enrolment is 28%, which is more than the
percentage of SCs in the total population. Thus the social gap in enrolment has been bridged. In
the 6 DPEP districts of UA, overall enrolment of children in the age group 6-11 increased over
the project period from 452,441 in 1998-1999 to 48,6754 in 2005-06. As on March 2006, 98%
children are enrolled in schools in the project districts. Of the total number of girls and SC and ST
children in the project districts, 99% are enrolled in primary schools, EGS and AS.

In UA, to attract and retain girls, SC and ST children in school, innovative programs were
implemented, such as the Model Cluster approach and MAMTA in low female literacy areas. In
UA, district coordinators were appointed in each district to manage gender-based programs. All



                                               47

girls and SC and ST children are being provided free textbooks. In addition, remedial classes for
girls, SC and ST children are being provided if required, thus giving children from these cohorts a
fair opportunity to study.

In UP, the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) (overall) at baseline was 91%, and 82% for girls.
According to EMIS data, in 2005-06, the GER (overall) was 99.6%; the GER for girls was 102.44
while for boys the GER was 97.03. The NER (overall) in 2005-06 was 89.31%; while the NER
for girls was 89.8%, for boys the NER was 87.57 %. The GER for SC children was 105.18. For
UA, the GER increased from 88.58% (1998-99) to 102.38% (2005-06). According to EMIS data,
in 2005-06, the GER for girls was 102.32 while for boys the GER was 101.92. For children with
special needs and those from SC and ST community the GER was 102.4%, 102.24% and
101.13% respectively. The NER (overall) in 2005-06 was 97.47; while the NER for girls was
97.1%; for boys the NER was 97.9 %.

3.1.1 Improving enrolment and retention
To achieve this objective, a twin approach was adopted: increasing the number of student places
by creating new seats and improving the PTR.

3.1.1.1 Creating new posts

To improve enrolment in UP, 2,502 new schools, and thereby 500,400 new places, have been
created over the project period. In addition 5,223 EGS/AS centers have been set up with
enrolment of 18,9751 children.

In UA, a total of 720 new centers ­ i.e., 638 EGS, 82 AS--have been set up. These include 8
maqtab madarsas. A total of 12,790, 2,732 and 983 children have been enrolled in the EGS/AS
and maqtab madarsas respectively. The number of girls enrolled in these centers is higher than the
number of boys. Of the 9,472 habitations in DPEP districts, primary school facilities are available
within a radius of 1 km for 9,119 habitations. In terms of access, 96.29% of the project districts
have a primary school facility in the form of PS, EGS or AS.

3.1.1.2 Improving the PTR

A key strategy adopted to improve enrolment was to increase the number of teachers, para-
teachers and AS instructors. In UP, at baseline, the average district teacher - student ratio was 1:
65; this ratio has improved during 2005-06 to about 1:50 in DPEP-III districts as a result of the
following initiatives:

    · 2,736 regular teachers and 12,975 shiksha mitras have been appointed since start of the
         project. In addition, 5,691 instructors have been recruited by VECs for EGS/AS centers.
    · The State Government has recruited 33,000 special BTC teachers, who have been placed
         in schools after 6 months training.
    · 87,000 shiksha mitras have been recruited during 2004-05 and 2005-06 under the SSA,
         which has increased the availability of teachers in primary schools.
    · In UA, a total of 5,988 teachers have been placed in primary schools in the project
         districts (4,838 head-teachers and 1,150 para-teachers), which a 36% increase over 2000-
         01 (when the corresponding number of teachers was 4,405). In addition, 733 shiksha
         acharyas and anudeshaks have been appointed in EGS/AS centers (438 male and 305
         female volunteers/ instructors). The overall PTR has steadily come down from a range of
         1:45-1:67 to 1:37.
3.1.2 Reducing the drop-out rate
In UP, the drop-out rate in March 1999 (at baseline) at the primary school level was assessed at
45%. Against this, the drop-out rate at primary level was 15.8% in 2004-05, as per the sample
study of drop-outs conducted by SIEMAT, Allahabad. To assess the drop-out rate at the end of


                                                48

the project, 2005-06, cohort studies for all the districts have been commissioned under the SSA,
and the results are awaited. In UA, the drop-out rate for children in the age group of 6-11 has
reduced from 34.74% in 1998-99 to 1.16% in 2005-06.

In addition to increasing the PTR, the strategies adopted in both states for reduction of drop-outs
include:

    · Distribution of free textbooks to all children
    · Strengthening the physical infrastructure of schools. This includes a total of 13709 civil
        works with major works such as residential schools for CWCN, primary schools, BRCs,
        CRCs, residential blocks for trainees in BRCs, toilets, drinking water facilities and large
        number of minor works such as child-friendly designs, ramps and railings constructed.
    · Provision of a cooked Mid-day-meal (under the midday meal scheme) in all primary
        schools
    · Setting up ECCE centers for sibling care
    · Distribution of free uniforms to all girls from educationally backward blocks under
        NPEGEL
    · Child-friendly elements provided in cluster-level primary schools under the DPEP-III
        extension plan.
    · Teachers have been directed to ensure that children passing from EGS/AS centers are
        enrolled in the nearest primary/upper primary school thereby ensuring continuity of their
        education.
    · In UA, bridge courses/condensed courses and non-residential camps have been conducted
        which are aimed at addressing the learning needs of drop outs, migratory, street children
        and child workers in the age group 6-11 years. The SPO has designed `customized
        community specific projects' for children from tribal and disadvantaged communities; in
        addition, SPO had developed a specific program for the Boxa tribe. Home-based
        education was provided to children lagging behind, especially CWSN.
    · The project has been successful in maximizing its efforts to meet the objectives by
        converging manpower and resources available in other government programs and
        departments, such as Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yojana (PMGY) and Jawahar Rojgar
        Yojana (JRY), Employment Assurance Scheme, Midday meal program, and ICDS for
        ECCE. Non-governmental organizations were also engaged for executing programs for
        girl children. Funds were mobilized from SCP, TSP programs of Social Works
        Department, Border Area Development Programme and 11th finance commission.

3.2. Improving the quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning achievement levels
in primary education

3.2.1 Provision of textbooks
In UP/UA, efforts have been made under DPEP-III to:
    · Ensure availability of improved textbooks among students and teachers.
    · Introduce revised child-friendly textbooks statewide in 2000-01
    · Distribute free textbooks to all girls and SC/ST children each year. In UA, in 2005-06
        free textbooks were distributed to 187,241 girls, 52,727 SC boys, 1271 ST boys and
        116,976 general category boys. In UA, the State Government provided for free textbook
        distribution for boys belonging to general category, who were not covered by the project.
    · Libraries have been set up in all BRCs and NPRCs. School libraries have been set up in
        UP in 4,282 cluster schools during 2005-07 under the UP DPEP extension plan. In UA,
        under extension plan 2005-07 reading corners have been set up in schools of four DPEP
        districts in a partnership program with "Educate Girls Globally".



                                               49

    · Under the project UA has developed a multigrade and multilevel teaching model ­
        "Kunjapuri Model" and has implemented continuous and comprehensive evaluation in all
        schools.

3.2.2 Improvement in teaching-learning conditions and practices in classrooms
Several measures were taken to facilitate the learning process, which included the following:
    · Teacher guides were distributed to all schools. These guides have been translated into
        Urdu.
    · Primary school teachers have been provided an annual grant of Rs. 500 for the
        development of TLMs through VECs. Teachers have been given a list of items to prepare
        subject-wise and class-wise TLMs.
    · The presence of teachers in schools is being ensured. Both the State Governments have
        issued orders that teachers should not be engaged in non-academic duties, apart from
        essential national work like Census enumeration, General Elections, etc. In addition,
        regular checks are being carried out by officers of the Basic Education Department to
        monitor teacher absenteeism.
    · In UA, technology has been used to make teaching and learning interesting and as an aid
        to textbook based teaching; methods include for example, computer aided learning, and
        learning English through radio programs.
    · In UA, due to the hilly terrain, one of the major interventions of the project has been to
        strengthen training and teacher learning through distance mode.

3.2.3 Improvements in the pedagogical support system for teachers
3.2.3.1 Academic support and supervision
    · A three-pronged academic support and supervision system of DIETs-BRCs-NPRCs has
        been put in place under DPEP-III to improve the functioning of schools and classroom
        processes and for better learning achievement of children.
    · DIETs, BRCs and NPRCs are functioning in all districts.
    · BRCs and NPRCs are providing on-site academic support to teachers in schools to build
        their capacity through workshops, experience sharing, peer learning, etc.
    · Zonal workshops have been conducted in DIETs in the project districts to build the
        capacity of district teams.
    · All teachers have been provided in-service motivational, content-based and need-based
        training. In addition, all headmasters have been given leadership training. BRC/NPRC
        coordinators have also been trained.
    · The 10-point school performance parameters have been institutionalized by the
        Government of UP. Revised school grading parameters, as recommended by the UP
        SRG, have been sent to the UP Government for approval. In UA, School Performance
        Mapping System/ School Development Index has been institutionalized by the
        Government of UA wherein, grading is carried out three times a year and performance of
        the children and schools is rated/graded on various physical, financial, managerial and
        academic parameters and clusters/blocks/districts `of concern' are identified so that
        resources and remedial interventions may be focused on these areas.
    · A module has been developed by the SIEMAT, Allahabad, to train ABSAs and build
        their capacity on academic support and supervision. Supervisors (ABSAs) assist teachers
        and visit schools regularly.
    · Teachers receive frequent guidance on classroom teaching and participate in professional
        development activities.




                                               50

    · An SRG and DRGs have been set up. The SRG for Pedagogical Renewal established in
         1998 was expanded to cover upper primary schools.
    · Academic Resource Groups of DIETs have been strengthened, and are being regularly
         monitored by the SPO.

3.2.3.2 Development of textbooks
In UP, workshops have been organized for teachers, illustrators, specialists and gender experts for
TLM development. A checklist has been developed for authors of textbooks to ensure gender
positive/gender neutral teaching materials. All textbooks developed for Classes I to V have been
made gender positive.

In UA, text books developed are gender positive and lessons relevant from the point of hill state have
been included such as disaster management, environmental sciences... and the like. English language
was introduced in 2004-05 at class one in UA for which the books were developed by the SCERT.

3.2.3.3 Training
In UP, training and sensitization workshops have been conducted for teachers, MTAs and women
motivator groups; in addition, 264 master trainers (MTs) have been trained by the SPO in DPEP-
II districts and 320 MTs have been trained in DPEP-III districts. Gender sensitization programs
for education administrators, SCERT and DIET faculty and project personnel have been
organized by SIEMAT. A one-day module for training of teachers on girls' education has also
organized; in addition, 77,603 teachers completed a 3-day gender training program in DIETs
/BRCs under the project.

In UA, a total of 10,216 teachers have been provided 20 days of in-service training on various
issues. A 30-day induction training package for para-teachers has also been developed. A total of
733 para teachers appointed in UA have been trained during the project and 192 MTs have been
selected in 06 DPEP districts during 2003-04, who have imparted training to the teachers. DIET
Didihat (Pithoragarh) and Barkot (Uttarkashi) have developed region specific material, folklore,
stories etc. to be used as teaching learning material. DIET Almora has developed training module
on Action Research. Training modules on bridge courses prepared by DIET Uttarkashi, Haridwar
and Pithoragarh.

3.2.3.4 Child-friendly elements introduced in schools
In both states, civil works have been introduced as pedagogical tools. In UP, 4,282 `child-
friendly' schools were set up under the DPEP-III extension plan, and 3,406 libraries established.
In addition, a set of 4 swings have been provided in 1,054 schools and sports material provided in
1,276 schools.

In UA, the walls of school buildings have been embossed with letters and figures for visually
handicapped children. However, this tool will be helpful only at the lower levels. Child-friendly
designs, including, swings, painted writing boards in schools and boundary walls, abacus on
window grills in activity areas in classrooms and the school premises have been developed for
children to learn, and at the same time make the school environment attractive for children.
Bigger structures such as playgrounds and amphitheatres were taken up under programmes such
as SCP and TSP.




                                              51

3.2.4 Improvement in learning achievement
The percentage gains in learning achievement of children in UP (study conducted by SCERT) and
UA (independent agency ORG) DPEP III districts in mathematics and language are reflected in
the table below.

                      Percentage Gains in learning achievement, UP and UA
                                                    UP                             UA
                                      Language        Mathematics     Language        Mathematics
Baseline (Grade I/II)                    23-71            33-76          64.39           66.01
Terminal (Grade I/II)                    82.87            83.86          75.76           77.33
Baseline (Grade IV)                      34.54            16.40          48.68           31.55
Terminal (Grade IV)                      64.05            54.94          55.16           46.13
Source: Directorate of Basic Education, Government of UP; Independent Study conducted by ORG for
Government of UA

The findings of the BAS and TAS in UP reflect that the gender gap in learning levels in language
and mathematics has reduced significantly. In language, the difference between boys and girls has
reduced from 3.65 to 0.87% in Class II and from 3.05 to 0.46% in Class V. For mathematics
likewise, the difference has reduced from 13.35 to 1.60% in Class II to 5.48 to 0.71% in Class V.

In UA, achievement levels in all the districts have improved and the state achievement levels
have gone up from a minimum 40%, with an average improvement against the baseline
percentages being an increase by 25% and students scoring percentages more than 60% in both
language and mathematics at primary level. Students in senior classes (class IV & V) have
substantially improved upon the baseline scores achieving the project goal of improving
achievement level by 25% and achieving marks more than 40%. In the context of mathematics,
the DPEP intervention has helped significantly, especially in improving the achievement levels in
Class IV. This is true for all the districts that had an average BAS percentage below 40%
(31.55%), which has increased to 46.13%. In the context of language, the scores were already
above 40% for both Class I and Class IV. Improvement in language skills against BAS for both
Class I and IV is about 8-10%, which can be attributed to the fact that in Uttaranchal the language
taught in schools is Hindi, which the children are already familiar with.

3.3. Improving state, district, and sub-district capacity to manage primary education

In both the states, a well planned decentralized system with adequate powers at the state, division,
district, block, cluster and village level has been established and made functional under UP/UA
DPEP III. The details are given below.

3.3.1 State level: In both states, the SIS -UP Education for All-- functions as an autonomous
body. Various committees of the Project Board have been established with the Chief Secretary as
Chairman of the Executive Committee; Principal Secretary (Finance) as the Chairman of the
Finance Committee; and Principal Secretary (Education) as the Chairman of the Program
Committee. The SPO has been established in both states.

SIEMAT: In UP, SIEMAT, Allahabad, established under the Basic Education Project, has been
strengthened under the UP DPEP III, and is responsible for training education planners and
administrators. The institute conducts training-cum-workshops for district-level planning teams
for the preparation of Plans, analysis and dissemination of EMIS, theme-based training programs,
etc. SIEMAT also conducts appraisals of Plans every year. In UP, SIEMAT has developed the
capacity for evaluation and action research. The institute has conducted studies/evaluations under
DPEP-III, including of para-teachers (shiksha mitras), ECCEs, alternative schooling, teacher




                                                  52

training and support systems, and VEC school management. These reports have been shared with
the TSG, EdCil as well as the Joint Review Missions.


In UA, SIEMAT has been recently established. However all the functions related to planning,
capacity building and monitoring have been effectively carried out by the SPO involving SCERT
and DIETs, till such time. Under the project, training modules have been developed on civil
works for training of the field level engineers and VEC members. Extensive training programs
and workshops have been conducted on Plan preparation, remedial teaching, school performance
mapping, community mobilization, household survey, child tracking and cohort analysis for
project functionaries of all levels. Resource teachers, especially recruited for CWSN in project
districts have been trained. In collaboration with Microsoft, BRCs, ABSAs, District Coordinators
and CRC have been trained on computer skills and EMIS, PMIS, DISE and GIS. In addition to
this, all DIETs have conducted a number of action researches on locally relevant educational
issues.

SCERT provides guidance to the UP Education for All Project on all quality-related issues. In UP
and UA, at the State level the SCERT works closely with the SPO to develop training modules
for teachers, shiksha mitras, EGS/AS instructors, revise curricula and textbooks, and develop
teachers' guides. The institute has also conducted BAS, MAS and TAS in the project districts. In
addition, it conducts studies based on suggestions of the JRMs.

3.3.2 Divisional level: In UP, a divisional committee has been constituted under the
Chairmanship of the Divisional Commissioner to review the progress of implementation of
project activities and provide guidance and direction to project functionaries. A DPEP cell has
been set up under the Asstt. Director, Basic Education, and staff provided to monitor the progress
of the project. Dy. Divisional Project Officers have been provided training by SIEMAT,
Allahabad. Regular review meetings with divisional officers are held at the SPO every month.

3.3.3 District level: In both states, a District Education Project Committee has been constituted
and is functioning under the chairmanship of the District Magistrate. The Committee is
empowered to prepare district Plans, release funds to schools/VECs and monitor project
implementation. The Committee has been delegated financial and administrative powers to
execute project activities in the districts. A DPO has been set up in each district in both states to
manage day-to-day affairs related to the project. All project functionaries have been trained. A
core planning team has been constituted and is trained by SIEMAT every year. The team prepares
the district AWP&B, which is discussed and appraised at the State level, following which the
AWP&B is finalized.

The principal function of DIETs is to provide academic guidance and professional support to the
teachers' training programs, development of TLM and academic supervision through BRCs and
NPRCs. DIETs have been strengthened in both states under UP DPEP-III to spearhead quality
programs, and the faculty has been trained and designated as Block Mentors to ensure quality
interventions.

In both states, each district has set up an EMIS system to compile reports, and analyze and
disseminate indicators. The district planning teams use EMIS data in the preparation of Plans and
implementation strategies.

3.3.4 Block level: In both states, Asstt. Basic Shiksha Adhikaris (ABSAs) have been designated
as Block Project Officers and given training at SIEMAT. ABSAs are responsible for monitoring
the progress of project activities at the block level. In UA, with the new integrated school
education structure the "school complex" concept is in operation at block level with the senior
most principal functioning as a BEO. School complex concept is effective in addressing issue of



                                                 53

teacher availability at block level. Block Resource Centers (BRCs) have been set up in all blocks
in both states. BRC coordinators have been given training-orientation to execute programs,
including training of teachers, TLM workshops, school visits for academic support and
supervision, and grading of schools.

3.3.5 Nyaya Panchayat level: In both states, at the cluster level, Nyaya Panchayat Resource
Centers have been established. Coordinators are in place and have been given training to carry out
project activities in their jurisdiction (covering 8-10 schools).

3.3.6 Village level: VECs have been constituted in both states, and members have been trained.
These committees are statutory bodies of PRIs; the Gram Pradhan (village head), an elected
representative, is the Chairman and the headmaster of the school is the Member-Secretary. There
are 3 other members in the committee. Most school-level activities are being implemented by
VECs. In urban areas, WECs have been constituted and members trained. WECs function on the
same pattern as VECs. VECs have been delegated powers to administer school grants, TLM
grants, maintenance grants, recruitment of shiksha mitras, payment of honorarium to instructors
at EGS/AS centers, and to manage EGS/AS/ECCE centers. All construction work in schools
entrusted to VECs have been successfully completed.

        Number of VECs and WECs constituted and trained, UP and UA
                                          UP                            UA
                           Constituted          Trained        Constituted    Trained
        VECs                  26,793             26,793           7,220       29,3407
        WECs                   4,065              4,065             --            --


3.3.6.1      Involvement of VECs: VECs are actively working to ensure all children attend school.
Specific instances of VEC's contribution to school improvement include:
· VECs are involved in micro-planning, and running AS centers. Regular meetings are
    organized to discuss School Development Plans. VECs are involved in school improvement,
    maintenance and repairs, and in construction work in new schools, renovation of old schools
    and building additional classrooms.
· VECs play a key role in conducting household surveys of out-of-school children and their
    enrolment in school. VECs facilitate the enrolment and retention of children, especially of
    girls and SC/ST children.
· VECs are involved in the selection and appointment of para-teachers/acharyajis; and in
    providing volunteer teachers for quality improvement.
· The VEC training module focuses on girls' education (i.e., the importance of girls' education,
    equity issues, and ensuring girl-friendly environment in school and at home).
· 2,819 MTAs, 1,108 WMGs have been constituted and provided orientation under DPEP in
    UP; 800 core teams set up and trained in DPEP-III districts.
· In UP, a forum for VEC women members has been formed in 20 clusters; in addition, 1,108
    women motivator groups formed in DPEP-III districts.
· In UA, 12,845 SMCs have been formed. Women have been actively involved; 85 model
    clusters have been set up and 1,470 MAMTA associations formed with 29,441 women
    members. Of these, 22,317 women including elected panchayat representatives have been
    trained on gender issues. The project has received considerable community support.

3.3.7 Building capacity : With respect to enhancing state, district and sub-district capacity
(including at the school and community levels) to sustain pedagogical, managerial and
organizational improvements after project completion, the following has been done:



                                                 54

· At the state, district and sub-district level, EMIS, PMIS and PFMS data is generated,
     analyzed and utilized annually.
· The preparation of the AWP&B has been decentralized. A core planning team of 4 officers
     has been constituted in each district and staff is trained every year on the preparation of the
     Plans by SIEMAT, Allahabad. The district teams organize focus group discussions at the
     block and district level. The District Education Project Committee is empowered to finalize
     the district AWP&B and its implementation after Government of India approval. Thus, the
     DPEP has built the capacity of the districts to prepare Plans. This capacity has also been
     utilized in the preparation of AWP&Bs of the SSA.
· DISE-based EMIS is functional in all DPEP-III districts. Computer personnel are trained on
     DISE every year. Dissemination workshops have been organized by SIEMAT, Allahabad.
· EMIS 2005-06 has been completed and the data shared with TSG, Ed.Cil.
· PFMS has been implemented and PMR reports submitted to GOI.
· EMIS data is used in the preparation of the following year's Plans; for example, provision of
     para-teachers, renovation/construction of school buildings, classrooms, toilets, hand-pumps,
     and single teacher schools.

3.3.8 Community mobilization: The project undertook several initiatives at the district and sub-
district level to mobilize the community to ensure that the PDOs were met. Materials were
developed, including posters, audio cassettes, Abhiyan Geets, TV spots, radio jingles, and Meena
Video Cassettes. Meena campaigns were conducted in 2,297 villages in UP in the project
districts; in UA 430 were reported. The lessons learned have been used to extend the Meena
manchs at the upper primary level throughout the states under SSA. Maa-Beti melas were
organized: in UP 1,619 such melas were reported, and 216 in UA. In addition to this large scale
identification camps for CWSN and civil works have been taken up with the help of local
community. In addition, public meetings, film shows, rallies and village meetings were conducted
to create awareness about the project. 'School Chalo' campaigns were organized throughout the
state every year with public and media participation. Wall paintings were used to highlight issues
of child rights/Bal Adhikar in every school.

To sensitize the community to gender issues, Kalajatha scripts for the retention of girls in
primary schools were developed and targeted in blocks with low female literacy. Kalajatha was
performed in 736 villages of UP. In addition, Mahila Samakhya bulletins and magazines were
made available to teachers and VECs.

To build the capacity of the community, folders were printed on school improvement grants, a
training module for VECs and a handbook on the Gram Shiksha Yojna were developed, and two
rounds of training conducted on micro-planning and household contact for VECs. In UP,
community mobilization was assisted by networking with organizations including UNICEF for
girls' education and Mahila Samakhya. In UA all the VEC and SMC members have been trained with
regard to project management at village level. Training manuals have been prepared on financial
management, sensitization towards girl children, CWSN and children from disadvantaged sections.

3.3.9 Monitoring and supervision: Mechanisms have been provided under the project for
monitoring and supervision at all administrative levels.
The MIS cell has been set up at the SPO as well as in all DPOs, and to strengthen MIS, an MIS
in-charge has been provided in DPEP-III districts from the SSA. Computer operators are also in
place in offices in both states and trained personnel have been made available. Three computers
with UPS and software, and data entry operators are in place in all the project districts in UP. In
UA computers have been provided till block level and personnel trained in handling MIS. Of the
two ABRC at the BRC one is dedicated for management of information. EMIS reports have been
generated on a yearly basis for all the districts and shared with TSG/GOI. SIEMAT has analyzed


                                                  55

and shared the data with DIETs, DPO, SCERT, and the Director, Basic Education. The data is
being used for the preparation of Plans. In addition to this, UA has also developed GIS for better
management and planning of programmes and has successfully institutionalized innovation of
monitoring programmes through video conferences which are conducted by the Chief Secretary,
Secretary Education and the State Project Director at different times of month. A Decision
Support System (DSS) has been developed for planning and monitoring of EMIS data. Data (for
example, on single teacher schools, PTRs, GERs, NERs, schools without toilets) is being
generated for planning.

4. Financial progress up to 2005-06
In UP, the project budget and expenditure from the start of the project in 1999-2000 up to
February 28, 2006 under the various categories are as follows--against a total anticipated cost of
Rs. 9995.59 million, the total expenditure up to February 2006 was Rs. 9751.25 million. In UA,
against a planned budget of Rs 153.08 crore, the cumulative expenditure up to March 2006 was
Rs 147.30 crore or 96.2%.
               Civil works completed, UP and UA, up to February/March 2006
                                                                                UA
                                                          UP
                                                                            Complete
         Physical progress                                Complete
         BRC                                                   375              32
         CRC                                                  3,827             281
         Addl. classrooms                                     10,030           1,219
         New schools/ Reconstruction of schools               5,413             508
         Toilets                                              12,346           2,607
         Drinking water                                        55              1,519
         Construction of ECCE rooms                           1,921            2,355
         Construction of ramps in schools                     2,955            3,010


Financial Information, UP (in Rs. Lakh)

                 Category                                                Total
                                                  Project Budget          Expenditure       % Budget
                                                                        (upto 28.02.06)     expended
1. Civil works                                               25607.87          24720.25          96.53%
2. Equipment, vehicles, furniture and                         6511.00           3521.03          54.08%
    materials
3. Books                                                     10125.21           8685.65          85.78%
4. Fellowships training/ workshop and                        11780.25           3515.41          29.84%
   consultant services
5. Incremental staff salaries incremental                    45931.63          57070.11         124.25%
honoraria for volunteers, incremental
Total                                                        99955.96          97512.45         97.56%

5. Bank's Performance

UP: The Bank's performance has been satisfactory. The Bank identified an experienced Task
Leader who resided in India and who was supported by professionals from inside and outside the
Bank during project preparation and supervision of implementation. The project design of



                                              56

UPDPEP-III was consistent with both national and state goals for primary education. The project
design included the lessons learnt from UP Basic Education Project and District Primary
Education Programme-II. During Identification Mission and Pre-appraisal Mission, several
workshops and meetings were organised to build local capacity for formulation of the project.
This helped produce consensus among the GOUP, GOI and the World Bank regarding the design
and objectives of the project. The Bank was flexible and responsive to the state's preparations.
The review of the project design indicates that the project objectives were clearly stated. Project
Implementation Plan was also prepared in consultation with the Bank before appraisal of the
Project. Key indicators were specified and baseline data on indicators and out comes was
included in the design. Evaluations of important interventions were also stipulated at the time of
midterm appraisal. Keeping in view the satisfactory performance of UPDPEP-III, extension of
DPEP-III for 6 months from 1-10-05 to 31-03-06 with additional allocation was approved by the
Bank.

UA: Primary donor for the project was the World Bank and the State government contributed
15% of fund for project implementation. Implementing agency on behalf of school education
department would like to place on record that the agency received complete and quality support
from both the funding agencies. Increasing original project cost from 83 Crores to 95 Crores
based on Uttaranchal's unique needs from the point of hill terrain after the formation of State;
timely approval of extension plan, proposals of re-appropriation and reimbursement claims are
important contributions from Bank that needs special mention. Other tasks such as approval on
state-specific amendments in legal agreement on various criteria crucial for project
implementation; allocating separate credit number/ account to UA after formation of the State
that facilitated smooth maintenance of accounts and approval on agencies conducting studies are
such that appear minor but have significantly helped in implementation. Needless to mention the
institution of Joint Review Mission has contributed significantly in the progress of both the
project and the State. State is thankful to Bank and GoI for selecting it more often for JRM visits
­ visits during which the rich discussions with the members followed by succinct JRM aide
memoire functioned as guiding lamp throughout the project.

6. Borrower's Performance

UP: The project preparation was done by the Borrower in participatory and decentralized manner
within the time schedule given by the GOI & the World Bank. The lessons learnt under UPBEP
and DPEP-II were made use of by the Borrower. The requirement of the Bank to conduct Social
Assessment Studies and Baseline Learner's Achievement survey was fulfilled timely which led to
timely completion of Pre-appraisal and Appraisal by the GOI & the Bank. As required the
Project Implementation Plan was also prepared and submitted to the Appraisal Mission of the
World Bank. As agreed, the Evaluation of 5 interventions viz ECCE, Para-teachers, Alternative
Schooling, VEC management and Impact of teacher training were completed by midterm review
by the Bank. Joint Review Missions by the GOI & the World Bank, reviewed the progress of the
implementation of UP/UA DPEP-III every 6 months. All JRM's rated the performance of UP/UA
DPEP-III as satisfactory. The Borrower extended its full cooperation to the Bank during the
project. Every year audit was completed timely and Audit reports were made available to the GOI
and the Bank. The GOI and the World Bank extended the Project Period by 6 months from 1-10-
05 to 31-03-06 with additional allocation of funds in order to continue the project support in
primary education. The extension plan was executed expeditiously and almost all targeted works
were completed.

UA: With all the project (UP/UA DPEP III) goals/objectives met, the implementing agency and
the State government are fully satisfied with its own performance. The State has been able to


                                               57

achieve beyond the objectives that were originally laid out, as detailed in Section 3. Progress and
capacity has been built in planning and project management, data management, convergence and
partnership. This is especially creditable in case of state like UA that is just five year's old and the
establishment for entire project set-up had to be re-created after bifurcating from UP.

Last but not the least, role of Government of India and Department of Economic Affairs as an
important link between the State and the Bank has been very crucial and supportive. State
Government on its part has been extremely supportive in all possible ways. It diligently provided
outlay and budget on priority for DPEP in its annual plan and budget. Similarly the state has
always released the state share in time. There have been instances when the State Government has
also released state share in advance.

7. Sustainability

UP: Sustainability of the project activities was always given prime importance right from the
project preparation & the project design. The lessons learnt from UPBEP and DPEP-II were used
in ensuring sustainability of UP/UA DPEP-III activities. The sustainability of BRC/NPRC staff
and regular teachers provided in the project was ensured in the project design in which these posts
were the committed liability of the State Govt. after the project. The State Govt. has taken over
these liabilities smoothly. Besides, proper steps were taken at the time of plan preparation of SSA
in the DPEP-III districts so as to provide for sustainability of most of the project activities.

UA: Department of School Education has a definite and clearly laid out plan for sustaining all
the initiatives taken under project as also to address the lessons learned from the project. For most
of the interventions Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan provides sustenance. For all such activities which
will not be supported under SSA State Government has committed to make provisions in its
budget. Some of the important interventions for which steps have been taken by the State
Government are: State government has developed a comprehensive strategy for mainstreaming
the children enrolled in EGS and AIE centers through a system of Child Tracking and upgrading
of these centers if they have been functioning for two years successfully. Para teachers who have
continuously taught in EGS/AIE centres get automatically placed in the upgraded schools through
a government order. The State Government has also provided for BRC and CRC in the Unified
Structure of School Education.

Plans for Resource Mobilisation: The SPO has developed a strategy for financial sustainability
which has four elements:
· For immediate fund support, such as in case of universalisation of pre-primary education ­
    funds are being explored from a funding agency. Alternately, the state may also provide
    support. State Government has already made provision for salaries of all the teachers and
    NPRC and BRC coordinators appointed in the project.
· For certain ongoing interventions, pooling of funds is being done by convergence, such as an
    additional resource pooled under the SCP/TSP programme of Social Welfare Department for
    developing model schools and residential blocks for teachers in scheduled caste and
    scheduled tribe dominated areas.
· Programme for mobilising resource from community: SPO has designed the programme
    called "DEVELOP A SCHOOL" for resource mobilisation by means of donations etc. from
    community members who wish to contribute towards educational development of children.
    Motivating community to feel responsible towards paying for the services they receive is
    difficult, but the effort has been initiated in the field.




                                                 58

Structures for Ensuring Quality Education in Future: Systemic changes have been made such as
instituting a unified structure of school education, school complexes at block level to address
issue of teacher presence and availability in schools, School Grade and Mapping system to
monitor education management, integrated system of assessment, multi-grade and multilevel
teaching to address education needs of children at various learning levels and coming from
various backgrounds, third party evaluation etc.

8. Lessons learned:

The experience with implementation of UP/UA DPEP III provides some useful lessons for future
many of which are being incorporated into the SSA. Some of these are as follows:
· Much thought and care should go into the selection of key personnel at district and state level
    project offices especially of District Project Officers and a State Project Officer, since the
    success of an overall management of the programme lies on this leadership. In the same vein,
    rationalised placement of teachers in schools and placement of head teacher is very important
    for school level management.
· In addition to ensuring financial preparedness for sustaining project initiatives, it is more
    important for the states to focus on developing "structures" to support interventions and
    continue the programme as a mission.
· There should be a plan for utilization of skilled manpower developed once the project is over.
· Definitions and criteria used for assessment of education indicators (such as out of school
    children) should be uniform and standard, irrespective of the agency.
· NCERT should redesign achievement level tests based on changed practices in teaching
    learning processes and changed parameters that assess the overall personality development of
    the child and not just the memory.
· JRM is a helpful institution. It is a good step on the part of GoI to have started JRMs for SSA
    as well.
· With every new intervention that has financial implications the State Government should
    simultaneously make plans and structures for future sustenance.




                                               59

MAP




       60

