Report No. PID8273
Project Name                     India-Uttar Pradesh Third District...
Primary Education Project
Region                           South India Regional Office
Sector                           Primary Education
Project ID                       INPE50667
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (GOI)
Implementing Agency
Address UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE KE
LIYE SHIKSHA PARIYOJANA PARISHAD
Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Shiksha
Pariyojana Parishad (State
Implementation Society -SIS)
Vidya Bhawan, Nishatganj, Lucknow 226007
Contact Person: Ms. Vrinda Sarup,
State Project Director
Tel: 522-386477/386480
Fax: 522-386481/39702
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 5, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         September 13, 1999
Projected Board Date             February 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
One-sixth of the world's population is in India and one-sixth of Indians
live in Uttar Pradesh (UP). With 160 million people, it is not only the
most populous Indian state but also one of the poorest. Despite its rich
natural and human resources, 42 percent of UP's rural population is below
the poverty line. UP also has a female literacy rate of 25.3 percent
which is well below the national average of 39.2 percent (Census, 1991).
The low literacy rates are further compounded by enormous inequalities in
terms of region, urban and rural population, gender and social groups such
as scheduled castes (SC), scheduled tribes (ST) and minorities. The key
sector issues in UP are: (i) inadequate access to primary school and
disparate enrollment especially for girls, SC and ST children, working
children and children with disabilities; (ii) low efficiency resulting in
low retention and high drop-out and repetition rates; (iii) poor learning
outcomes resulting in dismally low achievement rates in mathematics and
language; (iv) inadequate pedagogical support; and (v) weak management.
To address this social and educational backwardness, the Government of
Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) has implemented several large-scale operations with
the assistance of the Bank. The UP Basic Education Project (UPBEP),
approved in FY93, was designed to expand access to primary school
(especially of socially disadvantaged groups), improve student learning
and enhance GOUP's capacity to manage elementary education in 17
educationally disadvantaged districts. The Second District Primary
Education Project (DPEP II), with similar objectives, was approved in FY97
and covers 18 additional disadvantaged districts. Finally, to address the
upsurge of enrollment growths in UPBEP districts resulting in unacceptably



large classes and acute shortage of teachers and classrooms, UPBEP II was
approved in FY98.
2. Objectives
To assist GOUP in its efforts towards building capacity for ensuring that
all 6-10 year old children in 42 districts of the state, especially from
socially disadvantaged groups, complete a five-year primary education
cycle of appropriate quality. This project will contribute to further
increasing the geographical scope of the Bank-assisted UPBEP I and II and
DPEP II in the context of the current GOUP's reform.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's experience with the implementation of large-scale programs of
education reform and the design of external assistance strategies to these
programs has resulted in it becoming one of the most important sources of
technical support and external funding in India's progress towards
universal primary education.    The Bank has been instrumental in
mobilizing financial and technical support from other donors in the sector
and from other countries which are relevant to the Indian context. The
Bank-financed UPBEP I was the prototype for strategies for large-scale
implementation of educational change, several of which have been adopted
with appropriate modifications in the DPEP.
4. Description
The proposed project will have the following three components:(i)
Expanding access to and increasing retention levels in primary education,
especially for children from disadvantaged groups. This project component
includes the following activities to be financed under the proposed
credit: appointment of para-teachers in new schools and classrooms;
construction and rehabilitation of schools and classrooms and provision of
toilets and water facilities; introduction of double shifts; provision of
AS facilities; provision of interventions specifically designed to address
the educational needs of different focus groups (girls, SC and ST
children, working children and children with disabilities); implementation
of a school-health program; and mobilizing and strengthening community
organizations, particularly VECs, and carrying out awareness campaigns.
In addition, this component includes the filling of teacher vacancies (to
be fully financed by the state's budget) and redeployment of teachers in
project districts.
(ii) Improving quality of classroom processes and enhancing learning
achievement levels in primary education. This project component includes
the following activities to be financed under the proposed credit:
instituting a holistic pedagogical renewal approach for comprehensive and
continuous support for teacher development and supervision; providing
in-service training and school-based support to teachers; developing and
supplying improved and more child-friendly textbooks and supplementary
instructional materials and providing funds for teachers to acquire and/or
develop TLMs; providing book banks; and improving procedures for
assessment of children's learning, both internal, carried out by teachers,
and external, carried out by the district and state authorities.
(iii) Improving state, district and sub-district level capacity to manage
primary education. This component includes the following activities to be
financed under the proposed credit: strengthening the current state
project office; strengthening and integrating existing state and district
-2 -



resource institutions in project implementation; strengthening district
project management structures; fostering the involvement of qualified NGOs
in project implementation; and building state and district capacity for
monitoring, research and evaluation.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               32.3
IBRD                     0
IDA                      182.4
Total Project Cost       214.7
6. Implementation
General overseeing and coordination of project implementation would be
provided by the DPEP Bureau at the Department of Education of the Ministry
of Human Resource Development of the Government of India, established in
1993 to coordinate this centrally sponsored scheme. Actual implementation
of the proposed project would be delegated to the Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke
Lye Sisksha Pariyojna Parishad - (State Implementation Society - SIS).
This autonomous Society, headquartered in Lucknow, UP, was established
under the Borrower's Societies Registration Act of 1860 as applied to UP.
The SIS has had ample experience in effectively managing other ongoing
Bank-financed elementary education projects in UP.It is expected that
project implementation would be through incremental expansion of the state
and district components and subcomponents. It is also expected that the
yearly release of funding to the SIS by the GOI would be based on the
review by the DPEP Bureau of the State and District Annual Working Plans
and Budgets (AWPBs) based on: (i) good project implementation performance
at the state, district and sub-district levels, including the rate of
utilization of previously released funds; (ii) state compliance with the
annual payment of the 15 percent contribution to the ongoing UPDPEP III
program; and (iii) evidence of state compliance with the additionality of
UPDPEP III investments in elementary education in real terms compared to
the 1997/98 state elementary education expenditure levels. The first year
of UPDPEP III implementation would probably be focused on developmental
activities, including: (a) strengthening existing management capacity in
the state project office and building management capacity in the 42
district project offices; (b) strengthening state and district resource
institutions and/or groups; (c) establishing the basic professional
capacity and providing the physical infrastructure for improved learning
in participating districts, in particular BRCs and CRCs; and (d)
establishing VECs in project districts and starting the VECs training in
community mobilization, awareness campaigns and microplanning.The expected
implementation period would be April 1, 2000 to March 31, 2005. The
proposed Credit is expected to close by September 30, 2005.
7. Sustainability
The proposed project will be the fourth primary education project
supported by the Bank in UP. The annual incremental combined liabilities
of two of these projects to be completed in March 2000 have been estimated
at Rs. 217 crores, those of a third project to be completed in 2002 at Rs.
79 crores, and those of the proposed project, at Rs. 110 crores. These
net liabilities were compared to anticipated increments in GOUP's
budgetary allocation to elementary education, assuming that the sub sector
receives a constant share of state GDP during the period as has been the
-3 -



case since 1991 and that the real emoluments of existing teachers continue
to increase at their historical rate of two percent a year. The growth of
the gross state domestic product (GSDP), and hence the allocations to
elementary education, was projected under two scenarios of the state's
public finances which have been modeled by Bank staff. In the first of
these scenarios, where there are no fiscal reforms, the growth rate of GDP
declines from 3.3 percent in 1998/99 to 2.4 percent in 2004/5. In the
second, with reform, the growth rate increases to 4.5 percent by 2004/5.
The projections of the GSDP suggest that under the no-reform scenario,
allocations to elementary education between 2000 and 2005 would not be
sufficient during the years of project implementation (by Rs. 80-100
crores a year in the first half of the period and by Rs. 25-35 crores a
year in the second half) and would need to increase slightly as a share
of GSDP in order to fund the liabilities of the education projects. In
the reform scenario, there would be a deficiency only for one year (of
around Rs. 60 crores) and from then on additional resources would become
available to finance part of the investments which will be required if the
state is to move more rapidly towards universalizing primary
education.Equally important as the financial sustainability of the
recurrent liabilities emerging from the project is the institutional
dimension of sustainability. GOUP is absorbing the existing financial
recurrent liability of 217 crores per year to sustain, across the entire
state, the pedagogical, managerial and organizational innovations
developed under the UPBEP I and II operations (coming to completion in
March 2000) under a Transition Plan commissioned by the state project
office. The proposed project design includes a larger degree of project
implementation integration with the mainstream educational institutions,
especially below the state level, ensuring the configuration of an exit
strategy right from the start of project implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
There is now evidence in UP that overall primary school enrollment in
UPBEP districts in the period 91/92 to 97/98 has increased 32 percent as
compared to 22 percent in non-UPBEP districts. The enrollment of girls in
UPBEP districts in lower and upper primary has been significantly larger
than the one for boys (74 percent as compared with 48.6 and 45.4 as
compared with 37.7 percent, respectively). Findings of the second
learning assessment survey in UPBEP indicate that composite mean scores in
language in UPBEP districts improved from 34 percent in 1994 to 37 in 1997
and the mean achievement levels in mathematics in BEP districts were
higher than in control districts.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed project would not raise any
environmental concerns. Construction of new schools and additional
classrooms is to be on land donated by the communities, as in previous
UPBEP/DPEP projects in the state. GOUP has provided the Bank written
assurances that no involuntary resettlement issues will arise during
project implementation. Documentation of transfer of land for school
construction purposes will be kept in the district education office. The
environmental issues considered are primarily those related to siting
(land clearing), construction, operations and maintenance, since the
proposed construction of about 2,795 new (small) primary schools
- 4 -



(consisting of three rooms each) are individual buildings in an equal
number of different and scattered rural villages. As part of project
preparation and implementation, a framework of norms has been laid out and
a construction/maintenance manual prepared to enable standardization in
construction designs and to ensure good construction practices and
effective management and operation procedures.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Juan Prawda
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-9342
Fax: 202-522-3408
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 28, 2000.
- 5-



