Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3307 IN 
 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Project Agreement
 
(Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal Third District Primary Education Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
STATES OF UTTAR PRADESH AND UTTARANCHAL
 
Page  2
-2- 
 
Dated May 12, 2003 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3307 IN  
(Amendment)
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 12, 2003 between 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and the STATES OF UTTAR PRADESH 
and UTTARANCHAL (the Project States);
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated February 23, 2000 
as amended by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement of even 
date herewith, between the Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit 
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty-two million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 132,300,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by the Project Agreement dated February 23, 2000 between the 
Association and the State of Uttar Pradesh (the Project Agreement), the State of Uttar 
Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh) has agreed to undertake certain obligations with respect to the 
carrying out of the Project; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has advised the Association through Gazette Notice No. 37 
dated August 25, 2000 of the enactment of the Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000 
creating the new State of Uttaranchal (Uttaranchal), formerly a part of Uttar Pradesh; and 
 
(D) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to amend the Project 
Agreement to take into account the creation of Uttaranchal and the obligation of 
Uttaranchal to carry out part of the Project. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree to amend the Project 
Agreement as follows: 
 
A. Preamble 
 
1. 
The first two Recitals of the Preamble each beginning with the word 
“WHEREAS” are amended to read as follows: 
 
Page  4
-2- 
“WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
thirty-two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 132,300,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS the Project States in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;”. 
 
B. 
Execution of the Project 
 
1. 
Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. (a) Each Project State declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, and cause its 
Project Implementation Entity to carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
educational practices, and shall provide, and cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Project State shall, and 
shall cause its Project Implementation Entity to, carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.” 
 
2. 
Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.03. Each Project State shall, and shall cause its Project Implementation 
Entity to, carry out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
3. 
Section 2.04 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.04. (a) At the request of the Association, each Project State shall, 
and shall cause its Project Implementation Entity to, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their 
respective obligations under the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes 
of the Credit. 
 
Page  5
-3- 
(b) Each Project State shall, and shall cause its Project Implementation 
Entity to, promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Project State and its Project 
Implementation Entity of their obligations under the Project.” 
4. 
Section 2.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, each Project State shall, and shall cause its Project 
Implementation Entity to: 
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and the 
Project State, a plan as to the Project State’s intentions to ensure the sustainability 
of the Project and incorporating the results of the second review conducted 
pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement and paragraph 11 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and  
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Project State and its Project Implementation Entity on said plan.” 
C. Financial 
Covenants 
1. 
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. (a) Each Project State shall, and shall cause its Project 
Implementation Entity to, maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial 
management and accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project of the departments or agencies of the Project State 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and of its Project 
Implementation Entity. 
 
(b) Each Project State shall, and shall cause its Project Implementation 
Entity to: 
 
(i)  
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal Year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records and accounts and 
Page  6
-4- 
a
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
2. 
Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Uttar Pradesh shall, and shall cause EFAPB to, carry out a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to 
enable EFAPB, not later than August 31, 2000 to complete the design and software 
for such system, and not later than December 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to fully operationalize such system and to enable the 
Project Implementation Entities to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A)  
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; and 
 
(B)  shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A)  
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
 
(B) 
 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, each Project State shall cause its Project Implementation Entity to 
prepare, in accordance with the format acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.” 
Page  7
-5- 
 
D. 
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation and Suspension 
 
1. 
Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
the Project States thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; and  
 
(ii) 
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify 
each Project State of this event.” 
 
2. 
The following new Section is added after Section 4.03: 
 
“Section 4.04. The Agreement Amending the Project Agreement shall come into 
force and effect on the date upon which the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.”  
 
E. Miscellaneous 
Provisions 
 
1. 
The following new address is added after the address for the State of Uttar 
Pradesh in Section 5.01: 
 
“For the State of Uttaranchal 
 
Chief Secretary 
Government of 
Uttaranchal 
Dehradun 
Uttaranchal, India” 
 
2.  
Section 5.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project State, may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or by such other person or persons as 
the Project State shall designate in writing, and the Project State shall furnish to the 
Page  8
-6- 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.” 
 
F. Implementation 
Program 
 
The Implementation Program in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement is amended 
as set out in the Annex to this Agreement. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending the Project Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
       
 
/s/ Michael F. Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH  
 
By 
 /s/ 
Satyajit 
Thakur 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL 
 
By 
Page  9
-7- 
 
/s/ M. Ramchandran  
Authorized Representative 
 
Annex 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“1. 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project 
Implementation Entity, to carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the DPEP 
Guidelines; and (ii) the Project Implementation Plan.”  
 
2. 
The existing paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 is renumbered as paragraph 2 (a).  A new 
paragraph 2 (b) is added at the end of paragraph 2 to read as follows: 
 
“2. 
(b) 
Uttaranchal shall, and shall cause USKLSP to maintain, at all 
times, SPO, Divisional Offices, DPOs, DIETs and SCERT with powers, functions, 
staff, resources and facilities necessary for the effective implementation of the 
Project and take further steps to develop their capacity.” 
 
3. 
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“4. 
During each Joint Review Mission, each Project State shall, and shall 
cause its Project Implementation Entity, to furnish to the Association an updated 
estimate of the ratio of teacher to students in each Project District.” 
 
4. 
Paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“5. 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project 
Implementation Entity, to, ensure that no involuntary resettlement arises from any 
use of land, or change of land use for the Project, except to the extent that the 
Association agrees in writing prior to any land use that the arrangements for such 
involuntary resettlement, if any, are satisfactory to the Association.” 
 
5. 
Paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 is amended as follows: 
 
Page  10
-8- 
“6. 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project 
Implementation Entity to: 
 
(a) implement the Project in accordance with strategies for improving 
primary education of children from socially disadvantaged groups as set forth in 
the Project Implementation Plan; and 
 
(b) implement the Project in all tribal areas (as designated by each Project 
State in accordance with their applicable state laws) in accordance with procedures 
and strategies for the delivery of the Project benefits to tribal people as set forth in 
the Project Implementation Plan.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“7. 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project 
Implementation Entity to, carry out by December 31, 2003 and March 31, 2005 
assessment studies on student learning achievement.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“8. 
Each Project State shall: 
 
(a) take all such actions as may be necessary or appropriate in order to 
require and enable the Village Panchayats to implement the relevant activities 
under Parts A and B.5 of the Project; and 
 
(b) cause its respective Project Implementation Entity to implement the 
relevant activities under Parts A and B.5 of the Project through Village Panchayats 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.” 
 
8. 
Paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“9. 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project 
Implementation Entity to formulate and carry out a time bound program of 
training, satisfactory to the Association, in order to enable the Village Panchayats 
to implement the relevant activities under Parts A and B.5 of the Project.” 
 
9. 
Paragraph 10 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“10. 
Each Project State shall take all such actions as may be necessary or 
appropriate in order to require and enable their respective Project Implementation 
Entity, to carry out their obligations under their respective MOUs and the functions 
entrusted to them under this Agreement, all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.” 
 
Page  11
-9- 
10. 
Paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“11. 
Each Project State shall, and shall cause its respective Project 
Implementation Entity, to: 
 
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Borrower on two 
occasions by November 30, 2003 and February 28, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceeding the date of each such report; the first such 
report shall also include the recommendations of third party evaluations carried out 
under the Project on: (i) para- teachers; (ii) double shifts; (iii) alternative 
schooling; (iv) early childhood centers; (v) impact of teacher training and support 
systems; and (vi) VEC school management, and set forth the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(c) conduct in-depth reviews with the Association and the Borrower by 
December 31, 2003 and March 31, 2005, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, of the respective reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and after the first review, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the first report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.” 
 
