Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3127-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
October 7, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since August 13, 1979, the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) has been pegged to
a basket of currencies of major trading partners, with the Pound Sterling
as intervention currency; consequently the Taka-Dollar rate is subject- to
change.  In the twelve month period, July 1979 through June 1980, this rate
fluctuated between Tk 14.61 and 16.27 per US dollar. On October 13, 1980, the
Taka was officially revalued at Tk 38.45 to the Pound Sterling (equivalent
to Tk 16 per US dollar).  Also at that time, the Government narrowed the
margin within which the exchange rate in terms of the Pound Sterling
will be maintained, from 3.5% to 1% on either side. On October 27, 1980, the
exchange rate was again adjusted, to Tk 38.92 per Pound Sterling. The rate
below has been used throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$           =  Tk 16.0
Tk 1          =  US$0.025
Tk 1 million  =  US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square mile (sq mi)                     =  259.0    hectares
1 acre (ac)                               -    0.405  hectares
1 foot (ft)                                    30.5    centimeters
1 maund (md)    -                              37.3    kilograms (82.27 lb)
1 maund per acre (md/ac)                  =    0.037  tons/ac
1 metric ton (ton)                        5   26.8    maunds
1 cubic foot per second (cusec)           =    0.0283 cubic meters per second
i imperial gallon                         -    4.545  liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CB                  -    Chalan Beel
DP(S)               =    Directorate of Planning (Schemes) of WDB
GOB                 =    Government of Bangladesh
HR                  =    Hail Haor
ICB                 -    International Competitive Bidding
M                    =    Million
O&M                 =    Operation and Maintenance
PCC                  -    Project Coordination Committee
SB                  -    Satla Bagda
UNDP                =    United Nations Development Program
WDB                  =    Water Development Board
Fiscal Year (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                        People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                           SDR 24.0 million (US$27.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                            Standard.
Project Description:             The project would provide flood control
and drainage for about 195,000 acres in
three subproject areas: Chalan Beel, Satla
Bagda, and Hail Haor. The project would
assist in financing: a) 146 miles of
new and 20 miles of improved embankment;
b) construction and improvement of 145 miles
of main and village roads; c) drainage
improvements including sluices and gravity
drainage regulators and the construction
of a secondary drainage system for about
21,800 ac; d) construction of channels
for gravity irrigation for 30,000 ac; e) a
fisheries development study and infrastructure
investments; and f) groundwater investigation
works. The principal benefit of the project
would be incremental foodgrain production
of about 40,000 tons of milled rice and 10,000
tons of wheat. The project would benefit
about 113,200 farm families and would
facilitate substantial reductions in the
level of absolute poverty.
Risks:                            The project faces no major risks.  A possible
risk could be the reduction in fish production
in Hail Haor. The project has provided for
a fisheries enhancement program which would
reduce this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                           Local        Foreign         Total
----------(US$ million)---------
Land Acquisition           5.6            -              5.6
Civil Works               13.8           2.2            16.0
Equipment and Vehicles    0.3            0.3             0.6
Engineering & Admin.       2.2            -              2.2
Fisheries                  0.3           0.1              0.4
Groundwater Investigation 0.2            0.4              0.6
BASE COST                 22.4           3.0             25.4
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES    4.5            0.5              5.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES       10.2           0.8             11.0
TOTAL ESTIMATED
PROJECT COST            37.1 1/        4.3             41.4 1/
Financing plan:
IDA                      22.6           4.4              27.0
Government               14.4            -               14.4
Estimated
Disbursement:
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
-----------------US$ million----------------
Annual         1.0     4.0      8.0     7.5      5.0      1.5
Cumulative    1.0      5.0    13.0    20.5    25.5    27.0
Economic Rate of Return:        23%
Appraisal Report: Bangladesh: Drainage and Flood Control II Project,
Report No. 3491-BD, dated October 7, 1981.
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$2.0 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPM4ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 24.0
million (the equivalent of US$27.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help
finance a Second Drainage and Flood Control Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Situation
and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated February
23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Foodgrain output fell drastically and recovered
to the pre-independence level only in FY76. Imports averaging over two
million tons per year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain
foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggregate output in
manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY75. The
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply, and
the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining real wages, rapid
population growth, labor unrest and political instability added to the
difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers were by
necessity largely preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabilitation and
the need to shape a national government out of a provincial administration.
The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and replaced by a
scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore Programme" (FY76-78) in
response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.) despite several serious setbacks in agricultural
production. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the production index for
large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5% annually between FY75
and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the jute industry. The
late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic consolidation.
The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity to complete this
economic consolidation and to reconsider development priorities before the
country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).
1/ Parts I and II of the President's Report are substantially the same as
those in the Agricultural Credit Project (Report No. P-3047-BD, May 4,
1981).



-2-
5.        The past few years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial law. In
elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the new National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were
won by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur
Rahman, who had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty
additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP.
Following the convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was
lifted and a new cabinet appointed. In May 1981 President Ziaur Rahman was
assassinated. The Vice-President, Mr. Justice Abdus Sattar, has been named
Acting President and new presidential elections are scheduled for November
15, 1981.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth slowed substantially in FY79 and FY80, again
demonstrating the vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy to unfavorable
weather conditions. A severe drought affected adversely four successive rice
crops as well as the size and quality of the FY80 jute crop; this had
significant repercussions throughout the economy. The shortfall in foodgrain
supplies led to a rapid rise in rice prices, and inflation accelerated to an
annual rate of about 18% in the first half of FY80. The rate of growth of
GDP fell considerably, and inequity in income distribution increased as the
lower income groups were the most affected by the foodgrain shortages and
fast-rising prices. The balance of payments, which had been in overall
surplus in FY79, deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a consequence of
costly food and petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and FY80 averaged no
more than 4.0% p.a.; with population growth estimated at about 2.7% annually,
per capita incomes improved only moderately.
7.        The disappointing overall performance in FY79 and FY80 somewhat
overshadowed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy steps
during this period. These included: (i) the successful mobilization and
distribution of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first
half of FY80; (ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production and in
fertilizer consumption; (iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve
agricultural input availabilities, to maintain incentive output prices for
farmers, to strengthen the administration of the family planning program, and
to foster a more active role by the private sector in essential sectors of
the economy; (iv) increased capacity utilization in several industries; (v)
improved budgetary performance, reflecting a strengthened tax administration,
some reductions in subsidies and discipline in curtailing current
expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in non-traditional exports and in
workers' remittances; and (vii) exchange rate adjustments and other measures
taken to encourage exports. In 1979, Bangladesh concluded a Standby
Arrangement for SDR 85 million with the IMF, and this was followed, in
December, by a three-year EFF arrangement for SDR 800 million.
8.       FY81, by contrast, was a relatively good year for the Bangladesh
economy. Favorable weather and several years of stepped-up provision of
agricultural production inputs helped turn the foodgrain supply situation
around: aggregate rice production for the year increased by about 9% over
the disappointing FY80 level and reached a record of 13.7 million tons, while
wheat production continued to expand rapidly and totalled some 1.2 million



-3-
tons. The jute crop, on the other hand, was very small, as farmers responded
to the very low prices they had received for their output during the
preceding year. Agricultural output as a whole rose by some 7.5% in real
terms. As the industrial and service sectors also recovered from their low
FY80 performance, overall growth for the year is estimated to have been on
the order of 7.5%.
9.       Two major disturbing developments which arose in FY80 continued into
FY81, however: the very tight balance of payments situation, and the serious
budgetary difficulties. The latter stemmed in large part from the
unexpectedly limited availability of commodity aid and from the substantial
expenditures required to build up foodgrain stocks and to maintain incentive
farmgate prices in a record crop year. In addition to about 1 million tons
of aid-financed foodgrain imports, the Government purchased over 1 million
tons from domestic producers--at an estimated cost of Tk 3.4 billion--and by
the end of FY81, public grain stocks were brought up to adequate levels of
about 1.2 million tons rice equivalent. Budgetary constraints arising from
foodgrain operations are expected to ease significantly in FY82, but the
depleted non-project aid pipeline will remain a pressing constraint on the
budget. The balance of payments situation remains precarious, despite the
EFF Arrangement with the IMF and the greatly reduced need for foodgrain
imports. Sharply higher petroleum import prices, reduced export prices for
jute goods and the considerable shortfall in commodity aid availabilities in
FY81 and projected for FY82 are the main causes of this predicament. IDA
consistently has recommended to other aid donors that increased commodity aid
will be required, particularly as Bangladesh's progress towards
self-sufficiency in foodgrains will lead to a gradual reduction in food aid
requirements and in counterpart funds generated by food aid.
10.        Sustaining the growth of foodgrain production is a principal
concern of the Government. The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) gives top
priority to the expansion of foodgrain production, aiming at self-sufficiency
in foodgrains by the end of the Plan period. The experience of FY79 and
early FY80 served to highlight the importance of reducing the threat of crop
failures and widespread starvation. To a large extent, the increased
production in FY81 has been attributable to favorable weather, but the
Government deserves credit for a large part of the improved performance
attributable to increased investment in irrigation and other agricultural
infrastructure, increased capacity utilization, and improved input delivery.
In the realm of food policy, moreover, significant progress has been made in
reducing the extent of statutory rationing, changing the ration mix, raising
the ration price, expanding procurement facilities, reducing input subsidies,
and privatizing the distribution of inputs.
The Balance of Payments
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export
earnings in FY81 represented merely 6% of GDP and less than 30% of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports corntinue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together account for two thirds of total export
earnings. Although the terms of trade improved measurably in FY80, when
sharply higher export prices for jute goods more than offset rising petroleum
and other import prices, total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about



-4--
21% while imports rose by over 55% in value. Increased and more costly
foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone accounted for over three quarters of
the increase in import payments. Mainly as a result of the increased cost of
imported petroleum products and the sharp decline in export prices of jute
goods from their temporary high in FY80, the terms of trade deteriorated
significantly in FY81, and exports in FY81 accounted for only 28% of total
merchandise imports. The exceptionally large foodgrain imports needed to
avert a serious famine and replenish reserve stocks in FY80 had accounted for
26% of total import payments, but this share fell to about 9% in FY81.
Capital goods imports have risen rapidly in recent years and currently
account for one fourth of total imports. Petroleum and petroleum product
imports have increased very slowly in volume since the early 1970s, but
currently account for almost 20% of total import payments and were equivalent
to almost two thirds of export earnings in FY81. The balance of payments
remained under severe pressure in FY81, in large part because of declining
jute goods prices, higher petroleum prices, sharply deteriorating terms of
trade and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities.
12.       The current account deficit in recent years (US$1.48 billion in
FY80 and US$1.64 billion in FY81) has been considerably smaller than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers' remittances from
the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most important source of
foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. The payments
gap is largely covered by aid disbursements which totalled US$1.23 billion in
FY80 (equivalent to 52% of total merchandise imports) and an estimated
US$1.28 in FY81 (51% of merchandise imports). In addition, Bangladesh has
made extensive use of IMF resources including most recently under an SDR 800
million EFF Arrangement which became effective in December 1980.1/
13.      Debt service payments totalled US$94 million in FY80 and US$110
million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio was about 11.6% in FY80
following some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, but
increased to about 13.2% again in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.5
billion as of December 31, 1980, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan
accounting for 28.1% of the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3%
of Bangladesh's total debt service payments; because assistance is now
entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly.
1/ The EFF Program aims at supporting Bangladesh's development objectives
through the adoption of appropriate policies and measures designed to
achieve fiscal, monetary and external payments stability. While the
Government has taken actions in several areas to implement this program,
actual performance and achievements during FY81 with regard to budgetary
and credit policies have fallen short of agreed targets. Consequently,
drawings under the EFF have been suspended recently, while the Government
is attempting to bring the budget deficit and domestic credit expansion
within the quarterly ceilings set for September 1981. An IMF mission is
scheduled to visit Bangladesh for review of the EFF program in November.



-5-
14.       Project aid disbursements have increased substantially during the
past three years, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive
capacity, but there has been a crucial shortfall in commodity aid
availabilities and new commitments. Reserves had to be drawn down by US$150
million in FY80 to help finance the remaining payments deficit, and only the
provision of EFF resources and the curtailment of commodity imports well
below targeted levels prevented further reserve drawdowns in FY81. At the
end of June 1981, reserves stood at US$231 million, barely sufficient for one
month of merchandise imports. In FY82, the Government again faces the
difficult prospect of limited commodity aid availabilities and export
earnings potential and may again have to choose between a reduction in
reserves and the containment of imports to less than targeted levels.
Public Finance
15.       Government finances had improved considerably in FY79, but the
budget came under some stress in FY80, largely as a result of expenditures
for investments in foodgrain stocks and the shortfall in commodity aid
receipts. The budgetary situation deteriorated further in FY81, partly for
the same reasons as in FY81, and partly due to lower than expected
contributions by the major public sector corporations to the revenue budget.
Faced with the choice of either effecting sharp cuts in budgeted development
outlays (originally targeted to increase by 31% in current prices) or
resorting to bank financing significantly larger than would have been
consistent with established credit ceilings and monetary policy objectives,
the Government chose to reduce the development budget by about 13%, trimming
expenditures on non-essential components of development projects in all
sectors. The final deficit for FY81 nevertheless substantially exceeded even
revised forecasts and necessitated deficit financing of about Taka 5 billion
from the domestic banking system, well above the limits set in the context of
the EFF Arrangement with the IMF.
16.      Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are
needed if the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the
level of recent years and monetary stability is to be ensured. This task
is wide-ranging. It will need to involve broadening the tax base on domestic
incomes and output, strengthening tax administration, improving the financial
performance of public sector enterprises and utilities, and reducing the
major subsidies. The latter task has to be carried out with due regard for
both equity considerations and the impact on producers' incentives and future
output growth.  A Tax Enquiry Commission was appointed in 1977 and its final
report was submitted to the Government in April 1979.  A start has been made
in implementing some of its recommendations, especially concerning
improvements in income tax administration.
17.       The Government has also shown a growing awareness of the need to
improve the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and
utilities and to reduce the major subsidies. In recent years, it has raised
foodgrain ration prices and a number of utility rates, and commodity sales
prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were
increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and a further 24% in November
1980. Issue prices for foodgrains from the public distribution system were
increased in May 1979, in May 1980 and again in April 1981 by a combined 55%,



-6-
as the Government moved toward a gradual elimination of the consumer subsidy
on foodgrains. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace with
inflation, but in others -- notably the fertilizer and foodgrain subsidies --
they served to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product
prices were raised by up to 45% in November 1979, by a further 45% in July
1980 and by another 9% in May 1981 -- adjustments which eliminated the
subsidy on this account during FY81.
18.      Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation -- which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79 to 17.3%
in FY80 -- declined substantially in FY81 to only about 8%. The outlook for
FY82, however, is for renewed double-digit inflation, as the liquidity
expansion during the second half of FY81 was well above prudent limits.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980)
accords top priority to three major efforts: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to an annual amount of 20 million tons by FY85;
(ii) reduction of the population growth rate with a view of bringing the net
reproduction rate down to unity by the year 1990; and (iii) progress towards
mass literacy through the vehicle of free, universal primary education.
Enhanced priority is also to be given to energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
20.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and surface and groundwater
resources would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Where irrigation is available, the
increase in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice
and from dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth
of fertilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past
few years have been among the most notable positive developments in
Bangladesh agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of
the country to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable
future.
21.       The Government has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a
Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which provides an investment
portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons
of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its achievement will be
possible only if the Government allocates the resources required to provide
the inputs needed by the farmers and permits the private sector to play a
substantial role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural
implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of
foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension services and
training, and appropriate producer incentives. Without suitable attention to
these latter factors, farmers' demand for inputs could soon start to level
off.



-7-
22.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far. Recent projections indicate that unless the net reproduction rate is
brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population of
Bangladesh, estimated at almost 93 million in January 1981, could rise to 146
million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts have suffered thus far from
poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently, however,
there has been some encouraging progress. The coordination of birth control
activities within the Government is improving, while training programs for
field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time, considered
adequate. With Bank assistance, GOB will prepare a medium-term
implementation plan for its population program. Vigorous pursuit of the
measures that have been identified to improve performance should enable GOB
to come gradually to grips with the population problem.
23.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take
longer than five years, but they have set themselves the target of
introducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children
of primary-school age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a
national non-formal mass education scheme for those already past
primary-school age. IDA is assisting GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for
the education sector.
24.       A Plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a
significant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn
will require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and external
resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements
can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation. 1/
25.      Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocation within the
industrial sector. In a number of instances, the effects of present trade
and industrial policies on resource allocation have been different from, and
in some cases contradictory to, the Government's announced and intended
policy objectives. The Government is now preparing a program for Trade and
Industrial Policy Reform (TIP) which is expected to lead to a medium-term
program of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including
modifications in the tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect
1/ A full review of the (draft) Second-Five Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



-8-
taxation, investment incentives, export policies and the mechanisms for
industrial promotion and planning. At the Government's request, recent IDA
missions have assisted GOB in formulating and designing the TIP reform
program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
26.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of June 30, 1981, 53 new credits have been
approved, totaling US$1,605.70 million; of these, US$665 million have been
for program credits (nine imports program credits and two fertilizer import
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and
disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three
investments (for a shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and
a leather factory) have been approved.
27.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 13% in FY80 following some debt
relief measures undertaken by various donors, but increased to about 15.0%
again in FY81. 1/ The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s,
unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on
appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3.5 billion as of
June 30, 1980, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 25%
of the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
28.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(17 of the 42 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering
with the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example,
we expect to emphasize rural electrification and elimination of shortages
of generation capacity or distribution facilities which have been a major
impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
29.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. The first population project is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
1/ As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



-9-
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
30.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date, but has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans (see paragraph 26
above).
31.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
owing largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff,
overcentralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies.
Progress has been made recently on these issues and disbursement performance
is improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular
monitoring and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential
problems. IDA is providing assistance both under specific projects and under
technical assistance credits to improve planning, project preparation and
implementation capabilities.
32.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order
to direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed
in certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development,
including small-scale and cottage industries.
33.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy,
and increased domestic resource mobilization and have been undertaken in the
context of the recent detailed review of the Government's Second Five Year
Plan.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
34.     Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for more
than half of GDP, about 70% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over
80% of the country's earnings from merchandise exports. About 71% of
agricultural value added in FY81 was derived from crops, while forestry
contributed 6%, fisheries 11% and livestock 12%. Of the country's gross area
of about 35 million acres, about 22.6 million acres are cultivated at a
cropping intensity averaging 140% in recent years. Rice, by far the most
important crop, accounts for close to 80% of the gross cropped area, and
jute, the principal cash crop and foreign exchange earner, for 5-6%.
Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is still very low, although the
average rice yield of 1.3 tons per hectare achieved in FY81 was 15% above
the average yields of FY66-FY70.



-10-
35.     Recent agricultural sector performance is discussed in paragraphs
6-10 above. As noted there, the effects of the 1979 drought and of
widespread flooding in 1980 again demonstrated the country's vulnerability to
the vagaries of weather and largely negated the positive impact of improved
input deliveries and utilization achieved during the past several years.
Foodgrain production in FY81, in contrast, was extremely good, reaching a
record level of close to 15 million tons. This reflected not only improved
weather, but also the effect of Government policy actions and improved
performance in agricultural input delivery and utilization.
36.     The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts as outlined under its Second Five Year Plan (FY81-FY85) are to
achieve food self-sufficiency based on a targeted production of 20 million
tons of foodgrain per annum by the end of the plan period (compared to 13.3
million tcns in FY80), to create employment for the rural poor in order to
improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase export earnings.
With the assistance of the Bank Group, the Government has prepared a
Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) detailing the development
activities that would be required in order to attain its stated production
target.
Potential and Constraints
37.     There is high potential for increasing agricultural production in
Bangladesh because of: fertile soils; the climate, which is suitable for year
round cropping; and abundant and as yet hardly exploited groundwater
resources. However, there are also serious constraints to agricultural
development such as scarcity of cultivable land, limited potential of part of
the cultivated land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and
deficient transportation for moving farm inputs and produce. The major
constraint is the heavy pressure of population on land. Most land holdings
in Bangladesh are small and fragmented--a typical holding being about 2 acres
split into six plots.  This constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm
management and makes the organization of cooperative irrigation systems
difficult. An additional constraint is the agricultural tenancy
arrangements, under which about 30% of Bangladesh farmers operate. Because
of the customary rental arrangements, the tenant is normally expected to
provide all of the inputs but receives only about half of the crop and has no
right of occupancy. Under such an arrangement there is reduced incentive to
develop land for irrigation or to adopt improved farming practices.
Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations. Their
efforts, however, have been handicapped by inadequate amounts of inputs such
as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides on the one hand and inadequate technical
advice on the other.
38.     Given the constraints inhibiting a more rapid growth of the
agricultural sector, any effective policy to raise significantly the level
of production and assure long-term growth must provide for a more timely and
adequate supply of modern farm inputs and an effective input/output pricing
policy to provide suitable incentives to farmers. The Government is
cognizant of the need for such policy measures and, with the assistance of
the Bank Group and other external aid agencies, is taking steps to implement
them. IDA is currently assisting in the expansion of domestic seed



production 1/ and similar efforts are being made to improve the existing
extension and research services.2/ Fertilizer distribution has been turned
over to the private sector at the wholesale level throughout the country.
The wholesale and retail distribution of pesticides is now being handled
entirely by the private sector. Pump repair and maintenance services have
been opened up to the private sector. In addition, the Government has taken
a number of other significant steps to improve the overall efficiency of the
agricultural sector. Over the past two years subsidies on fertilizers,
irrigation equipment and diesel fuel have been reduced through a series of
price/rental charge increases, thereby freeing scarce resources for other
priority investments. A start has been made in selling irrigation equipment
to private owners rather than renting them out. The procurement prices for
paddy, rice and wheat have been increased to levels close to international
prices for comparable grades of grain. The number of grain purchasing
centers has been increased substantially in an effort to ensure that farmers
obtain prevailing incentive prices for their crops at harvest time.
IDA Operations in the Agricultural Sector
39.       In addition to assisting in the preparation of the Government's
recently launched Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan, IDA is involved in a
major program of financing agricultural and rural development. Eight
projects involve irrigation. Others include development of agricultural
extension services, agricultural research, jute cultivation, the seeds
industry, inland fisheries, grain storage, agricultural credit, area-based
rural development and drainage and flood control. Drainage and flood control
have been the main or an important part of several projects: the Chandpur II
Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD) to provide flood protection for about
140,000 ac as well as irrigation for about 75,000 ac; the Karnafuli
Irrigation Project (Credit 605-BD) to provide irrigation, flood control and
drainage to 46,000 ac; the Drainage and Flood Control Project (Credit 864-BD)
to provide flood control and improved drainage to 46,000 ac and 42,000 ac in
two subproject areas and to rehabilitate and improve the embankment which
protects about 180,000 ac against flooding from the Brahmaputra River; and
the Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project (Credit 955-BD) to improve
flood protection, drainage and irrigation affecting about 350,000 ac.
40.     Project implementation has involved substantial delays in the past
due to difficulties in hiring consultants, appointment of project staff,
timely release of budgetary allocation, approval of contracts, procurement
problems and coordination among various implementing agencies. The
Government has taken or is taking steps to remedy the most serious
bottlenecks and both IDA and Government have given increased attention to
monitoring and supervision, which has resulted in noticeable improvements in
implementation.
41.     For many years, IDA has been assisting GOB to improve its water
sector planning. As early as the Land and Water Resources Sector Study
1/ Supported by Credit 410-BD and a second project under appraisal.
2/ Supported by Credit 729-BD and a second project is under appraisal.



-12-
(Report No. PS-13, December 1, 1972), the Bank advocated that Bangladesh
focus its investments in the irrigation, drainage and flood control sector on
activities with an earlier impact on foodgrain production rather than on the
long-gestation, major flood control and drainage projects that had dominated
its program in the past. The Bangladesh Water Development Board's (WDB)
program had been based on a 1964 Master Plan for developing water resources
which emphasized deeply flooded areas even though two-thirds of the
cultivable land is either flood-free or would require flood protection for
flood depths of less than three feet. In Bangladesh, rates of return tend to
be inversely related to the per acre capital investment cost, which is
largely a function of depth of flooding. Furthermore, the financial
requirements of the large projects far exceeded available funding;
implementation was slow and rates of return low. Thus, there appeared to be
considerable opportunity to redirect WDB's portfolio to low capital
investment per acre schemes in the shallower or nonflooded areas. The Bank's
Hardcore Program Report of February 1973 recommended criteria for selection
of such irrigation and flood control projects: that they should contribute
to rapid increase in food production, be self-contained or part of a phased
plan, be economically viable and incorporate labor-intensive methods. Among
the general criteria recommended are that the total irrigation investment per
net arable acre should not exceed US$250 and that the total drainage and
flood control investment per net arable acre should not exceed US$200,
including cost of land acquisition. In 1976, the Special Project Preparation
Cell of WDB, later renamed Directorate of Planning (Schemes), DP(S), was set
up to prepare such projects, limited to minor flood embankment and drainage
improvement works. The Bank assisted this new cell by financing consultants
under the first Technical Assistance Credit to help DP(S) revise a number of
feasibility reports which had earlier been prepared on various projects.
42.     At GOB's request, the Bank undertook a joint review with GOB of WDB's
operations, including its investment program and management. The joint
review's report, issued April 2, 1979 (Report No. 2327-BD), recommended
further technical assistance to improve WDB's planning and implementation
capabilities. This is now being carried out with the help of UNDP-financed
consultants under two projects for which the Bank is the Executing Agency.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.     The proposed project was appraised in July 1980 and reappraised in
February 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3491-BD, dated October
7, 1981) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in
Washington, D.C. in August/September 1981; the Bangladesh delegation was led
by Mr. M. Mustafizur Rahman, Chairman, WDB.
Project Area
44.     The proposed project would cover three separate subproject areas:
Chalan Beel (CB), Satla Bagda (SB) and Hail Haor (HH). Chalan Beel is located
in Rajshahi District, in the northwestern region of Bangladesh and covers
about 131,000 ac. The area is a relatively flat plain with many low-lying
basins. From about June to October, a large part of the area is flooded to
depths of one to up to ten feet due to high river levels and accumulated
rainfall. Satla Bagda is located between the Faridpur and Barisal Districts,



-13-
in the southwestern region of Bangladesh. The area, about 72,200 ac,
encompasses part of a large delta formed by the three major rivers (the
Ganges, the Jamuna and the Meghna) and their branches. Much of the area is
subject to daily tidal flooding and flood irrigation is practiced on those
lands that are within reach of spring floods. During the monsoon season, the
entire area, except for the raised lands used mainly for homesteads, is
subject to moderate to deep flooding of two to eight feet. Hail Haor is
located in the southern part of the Sylhet District, in the northwestern
region of Bangladesh. The area, about 60,200 ac, contains a permanent water
body of 6,000 to 20,000 ac, depending on the season.
Project Description
45.     The proposed project would comprise investments in labor-intensive,
low-cost-per-acre, quick-yielding schemes aimed at substantially increasing
agricultural productivity and incomes in the subproject areas through the
provision of improved flood control and drainage systems. The project would
also finance improvements to the existing transportation network within each
of the subproject areas. Connections to main roads would be improved thereby
increasing the accessibility of the subproject areas. Satla Bagda, until now
accessible only by water transport, would be connected by road with the
national road system. Village road improvement would give better access to
the main roads, thus facilitating the distribution of inputs and marketing of
surplus farm products.
46.     Since flood control and irrigation projects tend to alter the water
body environment of floodplains and unavoidably, change the resource base and
technological foundation for fishing activities in such areas, the proposed
fisheries component at Hail Haor would seek to demonstrate how the adverse
impact of such projects can be offset. Fish stocks in an enclosed water
basin such as the Hail Haor area create opportunities for fish cultivation
and development of fisheries management programs. Such programs could
effectively address the detrimental effects of the current institutional
arrangements by which fishing rights are auctioned to fishermen by the
Government. Such leases offer little incentive for maintaining fisheries
bunds and shelters or for conserving fish stocks in the haors (permanent
water bodies) and beels (low-lying basins) for future breeding. The most
valuable freshwater species in Bangladesh, the major carps, can be produced
in fish hatcheries and with appropriate management techniques yields can be
improved substantially. The proposed fisheries component would strengthen
the capability of the Department of Fisheries to assess the effects of large
scale modifications in the sector environment and to identify options for
development. Given the significance of fisheries in the floodplains of
northern Bangladesh, there is a need for greater integration of floodplain
fisheries development with both the proposed and future drainage and flood
control projects.



-14-
Project Components
47.     The project works would include:
Chalan Beel
(a) 83 miles of new embankment with height varying from three ft to 20
ft, a crest width of 12 ft, except for the 10 miles carrying the main
road where a width of 20 ft is used, and involving about 217 M cu ft
of earthwork;
(b) drainage improvements including nine sluices;
(c) improvement and paving of 27 miles of main roads, construction of
four miles of new main road, improvement of about 30 miles of village
roads and construction of the road embankment and paving of about 30
additional miles of village roads;
(d) construction of miscellaneous ancillary facilities such as
gatekeepers' quarters, warehouses and construction offices; and
(e) equipment and vehicles for the construction program.
Satla-Bagda
(a) construction of about 55 miles of new embankment and improvement of
about 20 miles of existing embankments, with height varying generally
from 9 to 12 ft, crest width of 14 ft and involving about 219 M cu ft
of earthwork;
(b) construction of 9 gravity drainage regulators and 450 inlet
structures in the embankments of the supplying water courses and
excavation of drainage and irrigation channels to provide gravity
irrigation for a gross area of about 30,000 ac;
(c) construction of about 25.5 miles of new main road and 19.5 miles of
village roads, with 11 culverts and five two-span bridges;
(d) a small ferry boat for people and vehicles which will serve as the
only access to the road system;
(e) construction of miscellaneous ancillary facilities; and
(f) equipment and vehicles for the construction program.
Hail-Haor
(a) construction of an embankment about 8 miles long by upgrading an
existing road, increasing the height above ground level in some
places by five feet, with a crest width of 14 ft and involving about
1,750,000 cu ft of earthwork;



-15-
(b) construction of a gravity drainage regulator where the embankment
crosses the Gopla River;
(c) construction of a secondary drainage system for about 21,800 ac;
(d) improvement of 19 miles of village roads to main road standards and
improvement of about 20 miles of village roads and including about 4
one-span and 4 two-span bridges and 10 culverts;
(e) construction of miscellaneous ancillary facilities;
(f) equipment and vehicles for the construction program;
(g) a fisheries development study and infrastructure investments
totalling about US$0.5 M; and
(h) groundwater investigation works totalling about US$0.5 M.
48.     The fisheries development program would be developed by the inland
fisheries unit of the Directorate of Fisheries which has been working with
various ongoing irrigation projects in consultation with the Bank. Once
agreement has been reached on the development program, it would be
implemented by the Project Implementation Unit which has been established
within the Directorate of Fisheries.
49.     The groundwater investigation of the Hail Haor area would be aimed
at establishing the feasibility of shallow tubewell irrigation. About 20
test holes would be drilled, 10 test wells installed, 40 piezometric
observation wells installed and water and soil samples collected from the
aquifer and analyzed. All work would be carried out by the Groundwater
Circle WDB.
50.     Provision has not been made under the proposed project for the
financing of low-lift pumps and shallow tubewells, which will be required for
irrigating the subproject areas, since these are already being financed under
various ongoing IDA- assisted projects and other sources.
Project- Organization
51.     The project, except for the fisheries component at Hail Haor, would
be implemented by WDB. WDB was established in 1972 as a semi-autonomous
agency within the Ministry of Power, Water Resources and Flood Control and is
responsible for providing surface water irrigation, drainage, flood control,
erosion control, town protection and river training throughout Bangladesh.
It is managed by a Chairman and five Board Members covering planning,
implementation, supply and services, finance and administration. Under their
overall direction, day-to-day management is provided by 11 Chief Engineers
and about 50 Superintending Engineers and Directors. WDB has approximately
2,300 fully professional staff, mainly engineers.
52.     WDB's organization structure is basically sound.  WBD has, in the
past, successfully implemented and completed a large number of water
resources development projects. There are currently six ongoing IDA-financed
projects being implemented by WDB in the irrigation, drainage and flood



-16-
control sectors. In view of earlier delays in implementation, the Government
has recently taken a number of positive steps aimed at streamlining WDB's
administrative procedures and for improving its overall performance. There
has been a noticeable improvement in WDB's performance in recent years and it
is expected that further improvements will result from the implementation of
the recommendations of the joint review report discussed in paragraph 42
above. Based on the joint review's recommendations, the Government has
requested UNDP assistance to finance two projects, one aimed at the
introduction of improved planning standards, procedures and priorities within
WDB and those aspects of the Planning Commission falling under the
responsibility of the Member (Water), and the other to focus on organization
and implementation. Both projects are currently being implemented under IDA
supervision.
53.     WDB would implement the proposed project through its existing
organization: planning and design being undertaken in Dacca under the Chief
Engineer (Planning) and Chief Engineer (Design), and construction and
detailed financial control through the regional Chief Engineers,
Superintending Engineers and Executive Engineers. Overall responsibility for
project administration and supervision would be with the Member,
Implementation. The recently established Monitoring Cell for IDA-financed
projects, attached to the Member's office, will also monitor the proposed
project, and assist in coordinating the various project activities with other
concerned agencies.
54.     At the field level, WDB staff woula need to maintain close contact
with the staff of other agricultural agencies such as: the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation; the Integrated Rural Development
Program; and the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management). This
would be particularly important in the later stages of the project when the
project works would enable the introduction of substantial changes in
prevailing cropping patterns and cultivation practices. To facilitate
project coordination at the full level, a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) would be established within each subproject area. Each PCC would
report to the Member, Implementation and would include appropriate level
officials from the concerned agricultural agencies. Each PCC would meet
quarterly or more often as needed. GOB would establish, no later than June
30, 1982, a PCC for each subproject, with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04(b) of the DCA).
Annual Work Programs
55.     Prior to each construction season, WDB would prepare annual programs
detailing activities and works to be undertaken during the forthcoming year.
Such programs would include appropriate maps, charts and drawings, staffing
and material requirements as well as cost estimates. The Monitoring Cell
would be responsible for collating and consolidating these programs for
submission to IDA. A work program for the remainder of FY82 has been agreed.
GOB would submit, no later than April 30 of each year, the work programs for
the forthcoming construction year for review by IDA (Section 3.06(b) of the
DCA).



-17-
Land Acquisition
56.     Construction of the project facilities would require acquisition of
privately owned land: about 2,848 ac in CB, 1,365 ac in SB, and 77 ac in HH.
Due to land scarcity and a lack of alternative means of livelihood, many
landowners are reluctant to sell their holdings. Inadequate and delayed
financial compensation also have often obstructed timely land acquisition.
Delays in land acquisition have, in turn, often contributed to long and
costly delays in implementation of various projects. Under the latest
Ordinance relating to land acquisition, GOB cannot take physical possession
of the land without paying at least 90% of its estimated value to the owner.
Since land required for development under the proposed project would need
to be acquired in a phased manner, GOB would ensure that, at least three months
before such land is required, sufficient funds are deposited with the concerned
Deputy Commissioners or other appropriate authority (Section 3.07(b) of the
DCA). In addition, WDB will deposit funds with the concerned Deputy
Commissioners for acquiring any land needed for the first year's construction
program as a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the DCA) and
WDB's possession of such land is required as a condition of IDA's initial
deposit into the revolving fund account (Section 2.02(c) of the DCA). Since
the land required for embankments and roads will consist of relatively narrow
strips and holdings are fragmented, it is unlikely that any individual may be
required to sell more than one or two plots while retaining about five or
six within each subproject area. Thus, the need to resettle displaced
persons is not expected to arise.
Operation and Maintenance
57.     WDB's staff of Executive Engineers and their assistants would be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the various project works.
In the past, attention given to operation and maintenance has been inadequate
leading to many works and facilities in Bangladesh becoming inoperative
prematurely. This was partly because of a lack of well-formulated procedures
and programs and partly because of inadequate budgetary allocations.
Provision to cover such costs during the implementation period have been
included in total project costs. Subsequent annual operation and maintenance
costs are estimated (in 1980 prices) at Tk 4.9 M, 6.7 M and 1.3 M for CB, SB
and HH, respectively. This would have to be financed from GOB's normal
budgetary appropriations. GOB would ensure that adequate and timely funds
are allocated annually for operation and maintenance of the project and that
project facilities are maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices (Section 4.02(a) of the DCA). No later than December 31, 1982, GOB
would submit to IDA for its review, a detailed program for inspection,
maintenance and operation of the subproject embankments (Section 4.02(b) of
the draft DCA). The task force established to examine ways and means of
improving the Board's implementation capacity has recommended relieving the
Member, Implementation of operation and maintenance responsibilities, and
establishing a new position of Member, 0 & M, with associated staff
arrangements. The establishment of the position of Member, 0 & M within the
WDB and appointment of the officer and the required support staff would be
undertaken not later than March 31, 1982 (Section 3.09 of the DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
58.     Monitoring of project progress would be through quarterly and annual
reports prepared by the Monitoring Cell of WDB for IDA projects. The reports



-18-
would include all relevant data on physical and financial progress of the
project, together with reasons for any deviations from the targets set under
annual work programs. Following review and consolidation by the Monitoring
Cell, quarterly and annual reports would be sent promptly to IDA for its
review.
59.     The main objectives of the evaluation studies would be to estimate
the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project as well as the
socio-economic characteristics of the project beneficiaries. The data for
evaluation would be obtained through a few selected in-depth interviews in
the project areas as well as through canvassing representative samples of
project beneficiaries. A benchmark survey would be conducted during the
first or second year of the project to establish the pre-project situation.
Two follow-up surveys would be conducted after completion of the project
works; the first after one year and the second after four years. The surveys
would include information on cropping patterns, yields, cultivation
practices, production and employment levels as well as income levels for the
various classes of project beneficiaries. The evaluation studies and surveys
would be undertaken by well-qualified local consulting firms or research
institutions selected in consultation with IDA. No later than June 30, 1982,
GOB would prepare and submit to IDA for review a detailed proposal for
evaluation of the project impact (Section 4.03(b) of the DCA). The progress
reports and the data from evaluation studies and surveys would form, in part,
the basis for preparation of the Project Completion Report by WDB.
Implementation Schedule
60.     Project implementation would take five years (although the Hail Haor
should require only three years), extending from late 1981 until the onset of
the rainy season in May 1986. Most of the construction can begin in the
first year. WDB has already started surveys, site investigations and
designs. The design and construction of the embankments could start almost
simultaneously. Construction of drainage outlet structures would begin in
the second year after completion of the necessary topographical and site
surveys and final designs. Tender documents for the construction equipment
and vehicles are being prepared and their procurement is to be completed by
December 31, 1982. In order to expedite project implementation, a schedule
of contracting for civil works was discussed during negotiations. Bid
documents for civil works for the first year of construction will be prepared
by the concerned superintending engineer soon after Board approval of the
proposed credit.
Cost Estimates
61.     The total project costs, including the groundwater survey and
fisheries component at Hail Haor, are estimated at US$41.4 M (Tk 662 M
equivalent), including taxes and duties of US$2.0 M equivalent (1980 prices).
About 11% (US$4.4 M) would be in foreign exchange. The cost estimates for
imported vehicles and equipment are based on unit prices in recent contract
awards and on international prices. Costs of civil works, including
embankments, drains and buildings are based on recent costs in Bangladesh for
similar works. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 20% for civil
works since detailed surveys are yet to be completed. Price contingencies
are based on an annual inflation rate of 12% for local costs and 9%, 8.5%,



-19-
8%, 7.5%, and 7% for the five years of the implementation period for foreign
costs.
Financing
62.     The proposed IDA credit of US$27.0 M would cover about 70% of total
project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The credit would finance 100% of
foreign exchange costs (US$4.4 M) and about 84% (US$22.6 M) of local costs
other than taxes and duties and land acquisition. GOB would finance the
balance of the project costs, US$14.4 M (Tk 230 M equivalent), including
taxes and duties and land acquisition costs, through annual budget
appropriations. To ensure prompt provision of budgetary funds and hiring of
additional project staff, approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Borrower
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the DCA).
Procurement
63.     Civil works (US$28 M, including physical and price contingencies)
would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) because
they are relatively small, simple, labor-intensive and scattered. In
addition, construction would be subject to seasonal weather and flood
interruptions. The works would be carried out under contracts let through
local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. There is
a tendency in Bangladesh to let many petty contracts, resulting in excessive
paperwork at all levels of project implementation. GOB would ensure that
none of the civil works contracts would be smaller than US$5,000 (Tk 80,000).
Force account work is expected to be very limited and would be restricted
to amounts under US$1,000 equivalent.
64.     Equipment, vehicles and spare parts (US$0.6 M) would be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference of 15% of
the c.i.f. price, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$50,000 for each contract, which are
either urgently needed or are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased
through normal government procedures, on the basis of comparing prices from
no less than three suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to a total of
US$200,000. After the project, the vehicles and equipment would be used for
maintenance or moved to other projects.
65.     Documents for all contracts estimated to cost above US$200,000 would
be sent to IDA for review before bids were invited, and again before award.
All other contracts would be awarded in accordance with normal government
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA, and a summary of the bid
evaluations with the contracts would be sent to IDA before disbursement is
sought.
1/ An internal GOB document the approval of which is a prerequisite for for
the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-20-
Disbursement
66.     Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover: 90% of civil
works; 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles,
equipment, spare parts and construction materials; 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment, vehicles, spare parts and
construction materials procured under ICB; and 60% of total expenditures for
other equipment, vehicles, spare parts and construction materials procured
locally without ICB; 100% for studies.
Joint Project Revolving Fund
67.     Inadequate counterpart funding by GOB has been a major constraint to
successful implementation of a number of priority development programs,
including IDA-assisted projects. To avoid delays in the implementation of
priority programs, pre-financing of certain project expenditures on a
selective basis was approved under the Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
Project (Credit No. 955-BD)and is being carried out under a Project Revolving
Fund. A similar fund is proposed for this project, to be financed initially
in an amount of Tk 20 M. The amounts to be financed by IDA and the
Government are proportional to their respective shares of financing of the
expenditures to be met by withdrawals from the Fund.
68.     The proposed Fund would be operated by WDB and would be maintained in
a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02(b) of the DCA). The Fund
would be used to finance: (a) civil works expenditures carried out by
contract; and (b) purchase of equipment, vehicles, spare parts and
construction materials procured locally, without ICB. It is for expenditures
of this nature that local currency financing is often delayed. Contracts for
materials, vehicles and equipment obtained through ICB as well as force
account work would not be financed from the Fund. Initial advances from the
account would be made, as necessary, and at the discretion of WDB, to
officers designated responsible for subproject implementation. They would
report monthly to WDB on the use of such advances and support their
statements of expenditures with appropriate documentation such as certified
statements of expenditure, invoices, contracts, etc. WDB would prepare and
submit to IDA a consolidated return together with a withdrawal application
for expenditures financed from the Fund. The withdrawal application would be
supported with evidence that GOB's share of these costs had already been paid
into the Fund. Quarterly withdrawal applications for the replenishment of
the Fund would be supported by detailed documentation and monthly statements
of account prepared by the Commercial Bank operating the Fund account. The
monthly statements would give details of all withdrawals and deposits as well
as the opening and closing balances of the account. All disbursements from
the Fund disallowed by IDA would be met by GOB.
69.     The establishment of a revolving fund account in a commercial bank
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the DCA).
An initial deposit by GOB would be a condition of IDA's initial deposit to
the fund (Section 2.02(c)), as is the acquisition of land for the first year
of construction (paragraph 56). GOB would employ an independent auditor to
audit annually the Fund account, statements of expenditure and supporting
documentation. The auditor would produce an annual report, and a copy of
each report would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each
fiscal year. Experience in the operation of the similar Fund under the Small
Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project has been satisfactory.



-21-
Recovery of Costs
70.     At present, there is reluctance in Bangladesh to require the
beneficiaries of drainage and flood control projects to repay project costs
even though the beneficiaries of such projects often derive a considerable
increase in incomes. While it is possible to determine aggregate benefits of
the project or average per acre benefits, it would be administratively
difficult to design and enforce a cost recovery scheme geared to individual
farmers' ability to pay in a situation where they experience a wide variety
of cultivation risks, depending on their location and the quality of land.
On the other hand, imposing charges based on average conditions would not be
equitable. Furthermore, flood protection in Bangladesh, as in many
countries, is considered a social service for which no charges are levied.
Since land values are likely to reflect differences in productivity as a
result of the project, a betterment tax would be a more logical means of
achieving cost recovery. However, in the absence of an effective land
taxation system in Bangladesh, this alternative is not practical.
71.     For the above reasons, as in previous IDA-assisted drainage and flood
control projects, it is not proposed to impose charges on the beneficiaries
under the proposed project. In practice, public investments in flood control
and drainage are made as subsidies in the rural sector and represent a
relatively small part of the total of such subsidies. As stated in paragraph
38 above, GOB is taking steps to reduce existing subsidies in the
agricultural sector. It is possible that eventually, some cost recovery may
be attempted under future drainage and flood control projects since GOB is
currently considering increases in rural sector taxes through the adoption of
a system of land taxes based on potential production. Charges assessed
project beneficiaries could be used to spread development to the poorer
groups without these facilities and are, therefore, justified on equity
grounds. The development of reasonable policy options and formulae for
repayment of project costs is one of the important tasks being undertaken as
part of a new Master Plan for the future development of Bangladesh's water
resources. Preparation of the new Plan is being financed by the UNDP with
the Bank as executing agency.
Environmental Impact
72.     The proposed project is not expected to have any significant impact
on public health although improved flood protection and drainage should
reduce the incidence of malaria and cholera. The effect on flood levels
outside the project areas is likely to be negligible since the flood
discharges in the affected rivers are vast compared with changes made under
the project. Construction of the embankments could have some adverse impact
on water transport. However, since most cargo is transferred from small
boats to larger boats at the confluence of major rivers and drains, the
effect will be small. Furthermore, road development under the project should
greatly improve transport within and to the project areas. Flood control may
result in some reduction in soil fertility because of the elimination of silt
deposits but could be offset by increased use of chemical or organic
fertilizers. Damage of annual flooding to homes, gardens and livestock would
also be greatly reduced.



-22-
73.     The elimination of flood fishing is expected to have some adverse
affect on fish production in the project area, particularly at Hail Haor.
Chalan Beel and Satla Bagda will continue to have a substantial area of
tanks, beels and khals, which can be served from the central hatchery
financed under the IDA-assisted Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project. In the Hail
Haor area, flood plain fishing is undertaken during the period November to
February when fish are easily harvested. Flood fishing has been a rich
source of protein in the local diet and has provided employment for some 200
to 300 commercial fishermen and perhaps 2,000 to 3,000 part-time fishermen.
However, the data base for assessing the status of fisheries in the haor is
poor and outdated. Indications are that annual yields are decreasing and
that the catch consists mainly of low value species. The annual fish yield
from the area is estimated at around 400 tons, valued at Tk 3 M to 4 M. Some
reduction in this production could be expected until the effective
implementation of the fisheries development program to be developed under
the proposed project.
Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
74.     The estimated economic rate of return for the proposed project as
a whole would be 23%; and 25% for CB, 21% for SB and 24% for HH. Sensitivity
tests indicate that the subprojects are mildly sensitive to most variables,
though more sensitive to benefit changes than investment cost increases.
75.     The principal benefit of the proposed project would be the
incremental increase in foodgrain production over projected production levels
without the project, of about 40,000 tons of milled rice and 10,000 tons of
wheat. Based on projected import prices (1982-90 average in 1980 constant
dollars) of $425 per ton for rice and $300 per ton for wheat, the annual
foreign exchange savings of this additional production would be equivalent to
$17 million, net of the foreign exchange cost of additional fertilizer used.
76.     By protecting the project areas from excessive flooding increased
irrigation through privately owned low lift pumps and tubewells will be made
possible. A number of programs are in operation that make available
irrigation equipment, as well as the credit to purchase them, to farmers.
Since it is expected that with the improvement in the flood regime many
farmers will invest in irrigation, the costs and benefits of irrigation have
been included in estimates of the impact of the project on farm incomes and
employment. Assuming increased farm production resulting from the project
and the widespread use of irrigation in the project areas, the minimum
acreage required to provide subsistence level income for an average size
family would fall from 5 acres to 1.9 acres in CB; from 3.4 acres to 1.4
acres in SB; and from 3.3 acres to 2.0 acres in HH. The proportion of farms
below minimum subsistence levels would also decrease from around 70% at
present to roughly 30% of the total in CB and SB, and to about 15% in HH.
The total annual on-farm requirement for the principal crops would increase
from an estimated 16 million man-days, at present, to about 27 million
man-days at full development, as compared to a projected requirement of 19
million man-days without the project. There would also be a substantial
increase in secondary employment activities such as marketing, processing and
supplying of farm inputs. These developments should help to relieve the
large prevailing unemployment and underemployment in the project areas.
Although the overall income distribution would remain largely unchanged,



-23-
reflecting land ownership patterns, the proposed project would, nevertheless,
facilitate substantial reductions in the level of absolute poverty, even
allowing for the increase in population. Net farm incomes in the three areas
benefitted would be generally increased from two to three times present
levels.
77.     The benefits of the recommended fisheries development in the Rail
Haor area would not be limited to the area as floodplain fisheries
development is important for the entire northeast floodplain which covers an
area of about 2 M ac in the districts of Sylhet and Mymensingh.
Risks
78.       There is a risk that project implementation might be delayed.
However, the project components are technically simple, the implementation
period allowed has been conservatively estimated, and only one agency would
be involved in implementation of the project works. A common risk in
Bangladesh is that operation and maintenance provisions will be inadequate.
Compliance with the program which WDB is preparing should minimize this risk.
There is a risk of some potential reduction in fish production at Hail Haor.
While provisions are being made to offset the reduction of flood fishing,
the entire estimated value of fish production in the area is, however,
equivalent to only 5% of the net benefits of this subproject.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
80.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(i) deposit of funds for acquisition of land for first year's construction
(paragraph 56); (ii) approval of the project proforma (paragraph 62); and
(iii) establishment of revolving fund account (paragraph 69).
81.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
October 7, 1981



-24-                                                Annex I
Page I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-'
TOTAL             144.0                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   30.0         50.0      90.0               232.3                     1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..         32.0/e    40.8               499.4                    1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0       68117.0   88934.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1            7.6       10.8               17.3                      40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       371.5        473.0     617.6               153.6                     373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9         702.2     888.6               360.3                    2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3         46.3      43.5                37.4                      39.8
15-64 YRS.                          52.5         51.0      53.9                59.2                      56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          2.7       2.6                 3.5                       3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.4       3.0                 2.1                       2.3
URBAN                               3.6          6.3       6.8                 3.4                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.2         47.6      43.5                27.7                      29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.5         19.9       15.7               10.2                        7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.1       2.8                 2.5                        1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       8.9                20.4                      44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          106.0        101.0      88.0               107.1                     123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0         85.0      91.0                98.6                     112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         43.0      58.5                56.9                      62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0          9.0       9.0                14.2                      19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      24.9         23.5      18.7                14.6                       4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6          44.9      48.8                57.7                      64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        153.0     130.0                89.1                      50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         45.0      53.0                30.1                      45.9
URBAN                                ..         13.0      15.0                65.8                      68.0
RURAL                                *          47.0      55.0                20.1                      34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          6.0       5.0                17.6                      53.4
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0                71.0                      71.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 4.8                      42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..       8427.2c  8775.0               3857.7                    4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      91872.9   56876.6              6411.8                    2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..       6610.0/d  4402.0              1132.8                     588.5
URBAN                                ..           ..     637.6               322.3                     579.6
RURAL                                ..           ..   23754.3              5600.5                    1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          5.9/e     5.9
URBAN                                ..          6.Ile     6.1
RURAL                                ..          5.97      5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
UR3AN                                ..          3.O/e      ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..



-25-                                       Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVpRAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         52.0      72.0                85.9                     99.8
MALE                  66.0        68.0      103.0                94.4                    100.6
FEMALE               26.0         34.0      40.0                64.5                      98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0         19.0      22.0                38.0/aa                  53.5
MALE                  14.0        29.0       32.0               34.6aa                    58.4
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0                18.0/iaa                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.0       1.0                 3.8                     21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATEO
PRIMARY                              ..         49.0      44.0                32.8                     34.2
SECONDARY                            ..         26.0      24.0                19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6/f       23.0      26.0                52.8                     86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.4       0.4                 1.7                     12.7
RADIO KECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          6.0       6.0                35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.4                 3.7                     50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       4.3                14.6                    106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..                 3.4                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6       23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         16.6      17.4                29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8         85.9      74.0                69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3          3.5      11.0                14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.7      35.3                39.7                     40.2
MALE                                 58.7         55.9      56.5                51.5                     49.8
FEMALE                               11.4         11.9      12.7                23.3                     31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.4        1.3                1.1                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/g        16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/g        42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/g         7.97h     B.o71..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9          19.6        ...
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     139.0               134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..     111.0               111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RLLATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  ..                    249.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  ..                    234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      86.0                41.7                     21.2
RURAL                                *            *       86.0                51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the irdicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China incluaed in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
May, 1981



-26-
Annex I
Page 3
DEtINITlIgN OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
aNte.:  Although the data et  draus from  sorcs -enrlly judged the most muthuciteti-ve.  ,oreiable  it should ola- he totd oba  they may cat he intr-
iatly copara ble becaus  of the lack of aads-diaed defilotit.s atd cottpta  usd by different .. ontyiet I. cllec.ting the data-  The dat rt   oe
thele.e,. asful to Ide... the one-  of magnitude. indinametee..ds, aed  h~ra-tece   -e-cal  tutor difretnc-  b-.ee.ootfe 
The eneeceg       Ipaae ) .he sam   --tey grop   fthe  -bhjec  country uA. dl a2 co-ctry group cct  c..methot bigher o--rf  Iot.m. that thn  --oty getup
ctth  suN jcc  mcn-  Imc_-    Pt f.    Capital in-plue Cil Etpurtera   grop eket  'Middle Icc-n  Norh eAta- -ao  Middle fo.tt  it cbo-e  haron-  orsrne
ancit,1-cataa  afitais      .   to the  -efera-  gnuap dt-   h   togsae   oaeltcihe    rthorintn   fo  eah ind icao   an. .d sh.-m oty nbc'
majority fa tbc.. ousete  toe  geou..  ho  dt  to  that indice-o.  Since the  --erge c  contf noA-co  rhc 1i oc ac t Cpoe  on the noatlbitty of dat
and I.I. atttr,oaeomach    eoedIn enlacing anerge- cf Ot  indiater. no anotther.   teanrg A oeoi   ah;I   opnrg' teal- of
tae indicaco- ata  isc sag the  --utry and cefe-enn  gr-pa.
sAul gin  (nhiousamo oq.k-)                                                                         fooaco   c   optlPd-t l,ohn- ud eu-n                            P Focl-lo-(otl
Tonal - T-1a sufac  aced ttspnf-lc  tuod ara            In inland sates-                            oha   and ro-) dirided bhthinn  reape-i-s nabar of hospitalhd
hartoulural - stleateof agrcrnctalarea und teaprartly on ror-aanci                   -ratlblo  In p-blio cod privc           ca   t   poate    oPiaarr-
i- oropa, Psa.u. e  -maronan  kitrh-m  garden  on to lie fallow; 1919 dana. -                      bhl iftntoor-      tr -  tp    ral   c   a     I a  hari  prtetly  scffed
by On le-t one phynt co    icb tomatapr diddo  poliPcIpaly osto-
2lIPEPP  CAPITA  U55$) - 19  par onlca nacta te  on carer maket ponies,  -al-                          dial  -an  are cot too-ded.  O.R-l hositals.   teo-, include health
culneed by tsar  -noe -t  method an Onld Baol htia  (1977-79 bath); 1960,                           sad sedicat    ace1      o  pe__enty  nafad by aphyaitiat (hu  hr b
197D,ded 1919 dana.                                                                                 -edi_al o-iac-o-  nnt   idno i "-1 ahllot  ffe   lu-p  cen-               rc
Cannot and prov.ide     Iiod tafo P- td ica  facilities. -  Pr arine-
NfioRY ligfUlgrllli PRi  ClPITA - A-tonal       .. cemptint of c-mroaal e-nrgy (neul                   tiaWup-cHraOoaiostrunkl   rncplgtclneiaa
amd -igcitte   pe-ntle-s  natura  gau and hydro-, to ac   n  gohrlee-                                ttd cora  hompici  loca  or rurlh.m teal  sodmdica  odsaemp
troti yp  to kit ogre-  of coal eq,o-lntla  ret tapir-n   lbS, felt, -ad 1019                                  Sp-et- iretllo-d lo-itaie  ace lclode   only u-do  totl 
laca -                                                                                            ddnsi-oa0jteotapinul fed - tota  ..she  of adtit                 t   r di-h-nget
from boapitula. divided by the cuahee of heda.
LOPUiAiTION ugh Vtiat PTATISTICI~
Toa   yl.ty, ttd-lcai.S _ho....da( -- Am of Jalp 1; 19601  1970, and Sf79             titIPLIN
bea   nolt o   cree  ttno    Ratio of arhan to tota  popuIlotlo;                                   Ahueodceisofarupfinidulohabtlivig quaira
differe_  deioitio-  of  ohac a,, say tfeon comparaility  If data                                 sod  tlt mal teals.`            hore   rldge  m ay ormpt      o  be itvcluded St
Po2a1atle- Profeuti..a                                                                            Avernoenaahbarof t            Prmoo     artoo-total,  nh-_-ad rurlI - A-etgo   o
PapalastotsyeaclGo - Coeec-      oclec   ponPeotontAle  hate.d Is 1991                      her of pe--o  pee tone in allbtrha, end eara1 occopied   meena
toalpoptain hp aend act aId their  - soly and f-tilIty                                       _ aes-Iellngs, respeticy    D-on1ltgs  t l1udnn...on    --eraeetra-t -emad
P-olecIIna  prasee.    frotaay caes              Ipra  of coeeI.ev.l  .a..-...opid   ota
lece - rd  ennn lft7apennp  nhlllgatf-  yeas-   The  ua                                   Co-toetiota  d-ellitogs ofo    et lut y it lIIg -quarters as
atrs for fot I1c I     aee also-7   hae  h-e ed         oing decline in                        o  tota -rban, and cora  d-ell ina rap-c c-ly.
fe-tittly accrding to it Ie ..cc  a-d psfaily platin "               eIfcrtsat-e.
Sac  _tctr  is  hngsge   one.o. thes  nieEehDtos  fmralt                                  ICATISN
and ferriStiy treads rot profantiom  p-rpaea-                                                Aite   eolrnrn
tet...ero  _orAitton-Inaa.tat'lo..ay pop-al tlo    te-        ist gr-at  cln                       iar   cho                male      fesle-ottco,tl  adfml
ehe birth rote It capel cc cth  deatb rac, and also the age erocrr-eroiato   l                                               tteritarlvls  percentges of r-p_ctfve
mafoaonatte -IbIsIa ahieve  no, utter frth itry race  daclima en                          r-imay  ok-l-age pgpa..           ;   acaly  cnlud-e children aged k-l
the  eplaoseo  leel  f  .eitOt r-rdti         rty, h.e.s each gme...etiom                   yce hut a-djustd for differen trtlghe of pelto s-Y              tio  for
of  o-e  repln-  ica-If _etoty.  Tie  stat..tory popo1acins tite ea                                netes tit            ....n.dootmerlletsy  medli   ene
e-toa-d on the haaie of the projectd .ha,aterlct.iitc  of crl popatisci                               ..mo  toes pupil  ue bel   or chorethe official ahosi ege,
moca parlll,ndtttta  oOactmetisttlcrrnsnralaoa-                                   eensvro-oolmtadel-Cospnned asboaacod
mont I_v.                                                                                         edceti_rqarasat l"aetforye.er  .f approved primary iTte "tiac;
terY    aiote    orlo   Id reahed - The pour ahoy a toti-ay population                              yr-vid    gerru....aI anl,orteacher tra Iinigiara rits ,a paI,
miteh. boa        -hJ ten.eate.                                                                   u    lyp of 121.t 11 pants of age; onreepoodeaecoee  aegneal
Polaio   leeif                                                                                         e-lded.
Per s -     - aid-yean  popolation acP a;ur  kilo-ter (155 ht-ccne) of                           Ica oa   onleiiecern   todrl-trtna                                 'iatfecto.
ttlae;19ff, 19ff And 1019 deco.                                                             imclude tectotoal, Iod-tial  or ohr prgrestik-                  prt  indeod
Por91- lao.nyloulturallad - . lopucad no abov  Ior agcirlctal-  1sod                         ely or as departeet.. o.f secandar.        neiatas
only; 1961, 1973 n-  1978 dao.-i-esheti   peMay,..sd  -entmdary - Tonal atudeltsero.Ied It
Pon2lantoiceftutr   neros ..c) - Childea   ft-l4 ye--)  srko-ae(15-                                    primary noA scndary levels dtvded by  ..mer  ar  teahers Is rhe
o4 yeaca)  ..ad retired (i5 y--r and  tr)apretgaof  id-ysr Pipa-                                     corresponding Ien-I..
1ari-o; 19t0, 11,71,. ad 1979 data.                                                                MalIt litseaty rate (e--tg) - LieTnte adults (akle at read and write)
P-platlom  Groefhan R-     eoen    .- ota  - A-oma  groth catsa 0f tota  sd-                           atapr-etage of t-u  adolt popalanton  ged it Year. ad est
YeePapuIeineto  c9Ol-ti, 19tI-flI  anrd 1970-09.
Poonatiot                                , -At"Aal gr-hc rana ot  than porn-                  CONSUMPTIONi
lattom   for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 19701-7                                                      Paaat..aer Curs (per thoasa..dPoonaom   -cassger cats coprise motor
Crude girth Race -(nec thuuaad) - Alvual litn   births pe,rtho..o.d rf sid-ya..                      nara stig  e    that aight perm..ant 1 eodesklac,harssd
population; 19f,19ff, ad 191 dat.                                                                 alar   stils
Croft icach hate (pa  thousnd    A- Ie d-ecta Pot th-- de of eld-pear                             RadoisnRean-s (car thonad rrlao)                  All sypes of1l eaenn  far rdio
popaattm;   id,101, sod 1909 daa                                                              roaoet   ogeea  pti  pe_kuedo   oulto;ecue   t
ineadp-od-onlo  Ru -e- r.eegr nose  of danghosca a oa              ill I-a  itlnna   roieot  --asofa  tod it year  when.etsra in   o  rdt
her e        -slrpr-du-o- priod if glere-pe-tance   prese-  age-speif    a-st                                nefet   aafrrcn  yeats may stbe cospaeablsima
t'iia      rates;  uaalic-y-acneagasdipg it 1960, 1970, aed 1979.                                mott      bara      .hlished lIte..siog.
Pasaily _Tlamina - ic        s  Iooa  (th .n.amis)        ..daIa  n-ashen of acce-pee-            TV   . fe -sver  (ccc thonn.....d     im   -TTccecesfr irodocat to
of blrch-uoto    ait  ana    aiy f  sin.   aiP piaigpors                                           eealpti   e             nadpoylatiot  _m1-d.~  onlic..eed TVT eei-ers
woee of oitlo-bcarimg ago (15-44 yeats) who usehieh-usrol devIces to..e.sane  Ciecalatiam  fp-rtboadcuaio)-ibo.a Ike ac-eg  lil-
all _nrieid  cte  co tam  age grua.. Poltio o  "daily deter. - eresetest.pepee', defined as aperiodical
Pehifoa-Ion devoted Prnmr         .. t   ...rding getr-.aes   In fa cee..idered
POOI AlDNIT fl    Oitl                                                                                 to he "dailfo  if tta.PParss I..eac  fourtImes  a. wek
ladee o.f Pond _P-odoctt-oe   fpyflaL. taJip.-_LI-lll  - tIse of plocoapiot encaI                 Cieat.a..a  Acce-da-  cc Capita Pea Yea-i-...d as the a-b.e  of
pcodtnaanm  of all Pond nn-sditiet.   Production  -Iod-m acd od feed atd                           tickets sold dortag  the pear. in,ludiag adesios-  to dett-ie ci---e
on  a          Y_rcpachels-  Ctassodiinaontr  Pelmoof goode           -e -     ..s.acn           and mobilt .Itt -
lossa  o  soar  eith arIdible atd I..t.i ..risoa  (eg.cffee aad
-aidmal  -vergs prod-ce  plc-  -nghts; L9lO-h5, 1900, sod 179 deta.                             Total Lakr Fmoon        r (en rade( - itomamically  soiepeaa.  niding
Per cattspIO:clre It I            p.Eectaft of oeo ieee-s  -  opotd Pro                           steed fonts.  .Id ocplynd bn ea.clodioghossive   Modes t,
Prc day.  Arailahlr sapplies  -npetei dmett  proocioc  imotsient coparble; li9t, 1971  -md 197ll                                           ne
lua- itesott  in food p-...sio, and  Iaste  I.it  itribtoiom   teqoite-croire(sat)-   Laber force In f'icatg, fteestrp, hnaiag aed
_ettasere   tiatd hy PAt heard n   hl            -gou   ede Cot ..-Ia aco-                      fihntmpretg    fgol.  labor foote; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.
city aod health       . coadtcl,gen-i-oetool teapera...r. - bdy ctbm   age                    lant (ecn)-Lbor force 1 ~in mictg.  osrrat,a,f                              lt
aed sea dia-ibotico  of porn-ia`lo . ad o11wieg I                Iprcn  to   oseciad ele-trinity  - mtr td gas as p--ntage of tota  labt Poets; 1960,
hb...aebold len-l; 196-1-65, 1970, atd 191  Coca-t.                                             19ff amd 1979 dat.-
Per cenra5ot1  o  pnto  (grana per dovI - Peoc-in conet of per capoca                           Parriolpati-c Oat  loercen -. taetei.aa eae-Petopn                               r
gee sepply      food Per day. lteaspplY  f food is deflm-d aa ah.-   it                        -snaccraescospmd astosi  mae  and femal  lakes forte a
opal-e.etes for all onuot_I _aethIIbd by IIIA  p-onde for aini-a                                p.....e.g.. of toal  molt aId feal   pmnltin  ofal .age  .eP,o
alic.. ceof...    gas  oftnlf.cleytCY and 10 g -e of aIia   a                                    91  1~97   ad 1979 dana.  Ths   re bae   n  Lm               ariitlt   ae
roles protin, of shob 15 gaas shotld be animal proteit.  Thes  ssad-                            rsfl-ccinf,gs-    rnsea..g. of the poostn,ed lag  im                    -ad.  A
anial  rotin  m   rancag   fo  tnonrid, Ipropose  hy FAG in the Thtr                 rnol  epoeryIds  - Ratio of population udet 15 end i5 sad oce
Perld Pond Surrey; 196l-iS, 1971 and  1910 deco-t   the tona  tint. fonts.
______________-t     _______    _    j tmal   end   on   -P t i. .Ppy            1
el   rmaImas  s- pulm.s in geama per dan; 1961-65, 197f0a  lO.Cta.                   INCOME D15TeI0l7lION
Child (ages I-)sotltty Rats..f~rtutloaat                ona  dearbe per cho....ad ie               ecmant.rnc   mne(ohi   atadmd  - nerlvd by riches
age groop 1-i  eas  nrhildren in this age g-op; for mocdevloping ton-                              I Pectoc  richest      p.roem. t,P.o.e... .peeet, emdpoca  40 percent
tisCts d-ct-d Pens lift tables; 1960, 1911 er  10179 data.                                    ofh      hseoda
gIglyg                                                                                            PO51TY 1000Ff GROUlPS
Lif   aecaoa    1B   icear) - urag-e nosie  of poarsof lIfe remimimg                               The ftilowitgnstia-t  ar  very uppro-mt  -..nu.e. or povety levels
st birth; 1960, 19ff asd 1909 data,                                                                andabold be intepreted nith  -naed-tble  cauio.r
o.f  sgre hadln   biths.__                                                                         Absoutetd-hro  ncom   leel itebc ScdmoInoeleowycicoa miima
Aclsl  t         W.e.ese(sceoo  Roueit-  ea   rat  n   ne  - thN-                                   -outni...ail  PdIui  de                ---rse  l ane-fod  -eqoire--  Ic eon
ber  If ,peol ttl,       -eban, and enrol  itoh ...a..able-ett  ant                               affordabLe
water s'pply(Inlad es otected at c  maer  os onct-td hoc  -ttctaaa-ad                           fcEat-d  elair- P-nstu Iti-m  Lee017prcrnl-nban and corl -
eate  math em chat fete Pro  tetd hobolsa, apaings,  rd saitary _slls)  5lclt  atepvrty  ncm   gave  it to-third or acreage pe  'aPics
o_..tg.f rencarc-n -ylaiotnaoraarapoblo                                                      arona  iu-e  ef nit coutr.   IrhanJ~'    .ee  I. derivdfesters
founisis orst-andpoec   oated  vot mre than2l0 aete_ frma1oe-mpbeln    eilM   djcanmot foe higher ros  of licicg Is orbaaes
ceasomahl  access thadiml  ta tiebaeiflornbarm  of the ht....hoid                            end  -arl1  Ptorn  of populatIon  (urbas aed cral.) who ate  e.bsolre
dono _mret  sped  udierpn rnc     part of the daf It fe-hiag the                                     
fA-ily  Enac-   ored
i-ame   i people lcots. -ehun, etarotl) ser ved h   r entrant   .....a am
the. n-le-iot sod di-oo-a, oltbooichoi tr-ameuC, of h-.aeaac                                                                             mroic and Seotl1 lG.a Dcicin-
ate aet-t-wre  hy eatr-bon    apomao  the osa ~f pit prIdes asd simMfnti   olyi   o    e rta                                                                              lpceo
lee I...llttoM.fap1981
Pa  ..ata  per Phosioda  - PoPu1lato   divided by camber of post tiolag  pipal-
nlsm-  qaaltfied from  a- sedio1 schoolt _tinscett  leve.
goalati   fe   tontrAFPerso   - ePruan-ti  dtcided by nabec or practicin
male sad femal  g-sdu-emoas  proia  noe, d  .a.i .,.It rcs



-27-
Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:             92.9 million (January 1981)
GNP Per Capita:         US$120 (FY80)
Amount           Average Annual Increase (%)           Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$          (in constant FY75 prices)                     (in current prices)
Indicator                                          in current prices)
FY80            FY60-70   FY70-75    FY75-80          FY60        FY70       FY75        FY80
NATIONAL ACCOUINTS
Gross domestic product /a                                 11,346              4.0       -0.6         5.7         100.0       100.0      100.0       100,C
Agriculture /a                                          6,085              3.1      -1.3          3.6         59.9        56.9        62.5        53.e
Industry /a                                             1,383              7.9      -3.2         5.9           7.7         9.6        11.3        12.2
Services Ia                                             3,877              4.9        3.3        9.0          30.1        30.0        26.2        34.2
Consumption                                                11,466              4.4      -0.7         5.2          92.4        92.8       100.0      101.1
Gross investment                                            1,660             10.9    -10.9         13.5           6.9        11.3         7.0       14.6
Exports of goods & nfs                                        820             0.8    -11.7           4.0          10.0         8.3         3.1        7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                                      2,600             8.8      -12.0         5.3           9.3        12.5       10.1        22.9
Gross national savings                                         36            26.5    -17.7          -8.4           0.9         6.1         0.6        0.z
Amount                                                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (2
(million US$                                                       (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY80                                                 FY73        FY75       FY79        FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                      719.2                                                   100.0       100.0       100.0      100.1
Primary                                               198.0                                                   40.6        3i.2        35.7        32.1
Manufactures                                          521.2                                                   59.4        65.8        64.3        67.5
Merchandise imports                                    2,352.0                                                   100.0       100.0      100.0       100.1
Pood                                                  691.0                                                   44.1        41.5        16.1        29.t
Petroleum                                             390.0                                                     3.2       11.1        11.5        16.1
Machinery & equipment                                 491.0                                                    13.8        9.6        25.0        20.,
Other                                                 780.0                                                   38.9        37.8        47.4        33.1
FY74       FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78        FY79       FY80
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                                 140.6       240.5       183.1       177.2       203.6      216.8       254.L
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                                       7.9661      8.8759    14.8521    15.4667    15.1215    15.2228    15.47;
Export price index                                                            104.4      126.0       108.3       118.7       129.6      165.6       207.1
Import price index                                                           153.0       186.5       179.4       173.7       172.7      205.5       241.'
Terms of trade index                                                           68.2       67.6        60.4        68.3        75.0       80.6        85.1
As % GDP
(at current prices)
FY73       FY75        FY77        FY80
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                                          5.0         5.4         9.5         10.4
Current expenditure                                                                      6.5         4.5         7.8          7.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                              -1.5        +0.9       +1.7         +2.8
Capital expenditure                                                                      8.8         3.1         9.5         13.3
Foreign financing                                                                        7.1         2.4         6.0          8.2
1960-70     1970-75      1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                                            4.2        -0.7          5.8
GNP per capita growth rate(%)                                                                  1.5        -3.3          3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a  At market prices.
not available
not applicable
ASADD
July 15, 1981



000   0  0  0000   0  00.                                                                                                                                 04
04                     000   04  0'  0000.  -  00                                                                                                                               4404
0440             0.044   04040  .00.00.00.04-.
O  44                    0'004  4-44
<0.                       -  -        .                 .0
0'0.oo  0'  0  0040.0   0  0.0
7
404  .0  0.  040400.  .4 .0..      00                                                                 .
.0                                    .  00.440404.004.0 004.0040. 0.00'                                        0.'00 .0
7
04.040  0.  0'    00'                       0.0 '00404..044  00.    0'040.0.00 0'   0.00..  -.0.0.0 '0.0    -  -0004.4
0.4            00.0-0.004         o00002040                                           4440.
0040'  0.       .0'.0o      400.      0'   0.0.0' .0040.00.  00    04.004040.00    0...4.440'00.040..00      0.0''00. .4
02  0.1 .00' 0......
0               0.0.0.....0                                  04000.004.4  004    0'.0.4.0.00.440    .0040.0  -.0.00.040'    0  -.1-0.0
0.0.       04.       0
0.  0.   44    .0000.0.00.0.0.10.                     00.    04000...0..-,'0  '0 00040'0'0..00'    0.400'  .04.000.00    44' .00..-.0.    44
04              0400  0'  .4  .0.0.0  0' .00         00.
444              0440'      0.   04044   4  04       44    04.000.00.-tO   00'    o0'00.0'..0    04000   0.0.0000           04004040        00
O'A   t           I  I       I
0404  4.                                                                                                                                        0          0440   .0
4      4ood  0                                                                                                                                        440        04.0    0
04                        000   04  0'  .                                                                                                              .4         .00.
0      .04   0004   .00..0'000o0.                  .0    000.0.00.00   -04    0404000.0.0    0 0'004.-...4'.0,0040.0.04004                100
77                         ':       j
g
0.0.0   0  0.   00.0.  o  '0.0             04 0'0040004   0.0'   '44.0.00..C0'0    0.o0'04  000.0040         0    00.o
0. 0  0! 0.00' 0. 0' .004.0' 0 .00. 0.    ...II
0.     0.j  0400        0'   00.04  04  04         0.   41040404040.00   00.040400044000.000   040404000.0.00.0
a               -  .-,      4             '                  0.000.0.                0.0404.0-0
0.0..0  0' 0   ..00'0  0' 00.         04   '00000   0.0  040    0'0.  '00400'    00.00404.0...-.0.0.              .40.0.
I                 0       0.  '00'0004   0'4    0    0'0'  004004    0                  04040.         040.
0                                                                                     044  0.4'                  0  ...44
44                   44                                          00     0                 4444  440
4404.4                  0                    0.                                                               444-0  44.0                0   0.0
040            -  440.. .4                              44                           0                           44  44-0               0..  .044
0444.          0  34-4                       44                                      0                         0      44                      0-4
044      0  0  00  44                                 0.                           0                         440.  0                  444  
.000       44  0  04                          44.       04                          44.                        4444  444.-.             00
0.0.0     44  0         0.                          0.      0       '4              0. .4                     .0   00.                 00.  044
000        44  4' .044  44                   44     44    44                         0  0                    040   -.o                00)   00
.  4.     4-4044  0.    .0          44   0.  44                  004.0-0                    00   4444    0
   4444    44   .4I..  44                  04044      44440   o                       4'  00         4'
0-oflOl                  44  44    0.
4440.00      0  0440      0                 0440       -00.  0                                               -044   0.4                4   oO    .0
oWO.-.  0                                                             0  04-4                 440440.444'                      04    44
40.44-.  .  g          0                           Z-2  -z
<400   044   4-0444444                      .0444444o  00     0.  444                      40                  44440000                   00  ...    .44
4-.. 44  0  04                   040.04444   4.4o   0    04              044-4444                   0.0  0440                       044   44
440000440    0.  0                       0   0044   Ooo   00   04044444044.04                 -04044440    0'04444                     .44   44  4-.
40.444444  44    0.44.044  -.4              004-44-00    444   4-1  0    0          o0040                     04'0-0.044                ....44  00    44
00.4444  44 .4   44 44                     .04404444440444444             0404.04444  040444440   0444404.44  004.0404.0                  .44  044
4400  4-  0  .440    44                   .0   044  4.0..fl044   .30.40400.4.0  .0  0444   0.4004-0.0  000404000                              00
000.0.440    440044   0                     044400.0.044.0400   44.                  004000   444.0440.o  04        04444                 0.44  4444    0
O   440     44  0  00   4-                   00440.04440040.44                       044000   440.4444044  0000                           40   044
.400.  .4  44  444-.440  44               0o000400 440.-.00.    00           0.04    000.0.  000.000.    04040<0404                     4444  440.
044.440 0 0 40 4444 4' o4 00404000
A                                                                    A                                               A
0                       0                0



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 19 credits fully disbursed                     54.90   639.75       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      0.85
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      1.39
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.50      2.64
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                     20.00      7.12
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00      6.76
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.00      4.22
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    15.08
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00      9.68
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00      5.34
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00      6.98
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.00      5.86
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00     3.84
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -      21.00    13.73
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -      10.00      5.36
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -       5.00      2.83
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -      21.00    14.81
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -      25.00    20.91
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                        US$ million /a /b
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -        7.00    4.32
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -        6.00    3.64
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -       19.00   15.92
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -       10.00    7.26
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -        6.00    5.32
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -       25.00   22.39
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -          32.00   29.84
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00   27.81
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -       22.00   15.41
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                -       25.00    0.03
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                  -      25.00   24.02
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00    9.56
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII               -      50.00    7.47
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00   23.20
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II        -       20.00   19.64
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      20.00   19.71
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00   10.89
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II             -       25.00    3.53
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -      40.00   38.97
Total                                                54.90  1,451.25  448.10
of which has been repaid                               -         0.40    -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  1,450.85  448.10
Amount sold                             0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,450.85
Total undisbursed                                      -       448.10  448.10
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7i   See Part B for IDA Credits expressed in SDRs.



-31-                   ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of August 31, 1981)
Credit   Fiscal                                               Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Original  Undisbursed
1065     1981       Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III    26.7            26.7
1071     1981       Bangladesh   Imports Program IX             49.5         23.7
1091     1981       Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development   64.7            64.4
1096     1981       Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                    19.1        19.1
1117     1981       Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II   40.2            40.2
1124     1981       Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV        12.9         12.9
1140 1/  1981       Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                 14.8         14.8
1147 1/  1981       Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit            32.6         32.6
Total                                                    260.50       234.40
of which has been repaid                                 0.00
Total now outstanding                                    260.50
Total now held by IDA                                    260.50
Undisbursed                                                           234.40
1/   Not yet effective.
2/
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of August 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                 -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
2/   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery           2.1       .2     2.3



-32-                   ANNEX II
Page 4
D.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 1, 1981 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is virtually complete and
a PCR has been issued. however, the credit remains open to permit completion
of a delayed pilot command area development component which is also being
financed under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids are
being evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981. Similar
progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency (SCA) com-
ponent. However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component
remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract grower scheme
continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded appraisal
estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal targets
because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varie-
ties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommendations
for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training programme
currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to
permit completion of their FY81 work programs.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining
the number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original
project. Civil works in the original project area are completed. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about
30,000 acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints
continue to inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
They are, however, improving.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976;  Effective Date:  February 24, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 50 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
WDB has been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular
regard to the requirements for the embankments. The project is expected to be
completed in June 1983.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976: Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. however, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 30% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been tendered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a 10%
increase over the appraisal estimates.



-34-
ANIEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Local fund allocation is also inadequate.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
only now been taken up. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Miillion Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the technical aspects of Project has been satis-
factory. BARC headquarters building is under construction and work has
commenced on the civil works component of the three regional research stations.
Consultants on farm development and potato research have been appointed but
not for research monitoring. The National Research Plan has been published
and 39 sub-projects have been selected for financing under the research grant
scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students to take up overseas



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Ph. D. courses and nine senior scientific staff have attended career develop-
ment courses. No progress has been made in the MSC training program. Pro-
vision of funds and management of project finances have been inadequate.
However, BARC and BARI have developed closer liaison and a consultancy
accounting firm will be employed to ensure proper planning and management
of future expenditures.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, construction
of five regulators have commenced in Chenchuri Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali
(KBK) and some embankments works have been completed. Delays have been
experienced, however, in the implementation of the Brahmaputra Right Embank-
ment (BRE) due to difficulties in land acquisition and removal of squatters.
Retirement of the embankment based on mutually agreed designs has also led
to further delays in project implementation.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project;  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has started on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. Orders have
also been placed on the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has
begun with about 1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also
been prepared.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1042  Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant has been appointed; his first visit
is scheduled for August/September 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (for-
merly Bangladesh Landset Programme) should undertake the 5 year Remote Sensing
Programme and a draft scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained
in February will be processed shortly; aerial photography will be completed at
the end of the year.
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: USf18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of June 9,
1981; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant construc-
tion is over 95% completed. Despite continuing minor delays, production of
urea is expected to start around October 1981, slightly later than anticipated
at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs are unlikely
to exceed that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of August 31, 1981, disbursements were about US$19.14 million.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit to June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
As of August 31, 1981, disbursements were about US$24.97 million.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about US$70,000 t
urea and 40,000 t TSP. The credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment
for commitments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: ApPil 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of August 31, 1981, US$42.53 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023  Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Negotiations with consultants are underway.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date:  November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of August 31, 1981 US$21.47 had been disbursed. The credit
was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for commitments in the pipeline will
continue.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on January 15, 1981. As of July 15,
1981 US$1.2 million had been committed.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of August 31, 1981 disbursements were about SDR 25.8 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This Credit became effective on August 12, 1981.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980 and payments of commitments in the
pipeline will continue. Project costs (in dollar terms) are close to appraisal
estimates due to currency devaluation.
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training insti-
tutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the
recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and in
developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist the
NCRT in performing its functions. The consultants have now been appointed.
Part I of the Agricultural Management Training Institute courses, organized
by Coverdale consultants for training staff are almost completed.



ANNEX II
-39-                  Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US>25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date
June 30, 1985
The PIU manager and architect have been appointed and project
buildings sites have been acquired. Consulting architects have been appointed
and preparation of designs are in progress. The equipment and office furniture
lists are under preparation and master lists of Technical Training Center (TTC)
equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA approval. Curricula in ten trades
have been prepared at TTC. Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job
training have been concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project
development.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
Key staff for overseas training have been selected. Most key staff
for the Project Implementation Unit and the Regional Project Units have been
appointed. Preparation for a detailed program for first year School construc-
tion has been started.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Miillion Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 1981
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. The only
major problem delaying project completion, in respect of which the original
Closing Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981, is the slow
implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project.
Although 6 of the 21 facilities are now fully completed and 7 more are
expected to be completed between July-September, 1981, a second extension
of the Closing Date may be needed to permit full project completion and full
disbursement of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Except for the first tranche (1979/80) of the Family Welfare
Centers' component, project execution effectively commenced only in July,
1980 and, in relation to the original four year implementation period, is
currently about one year behind schedule. While the impact of this delay
on two parts of the project (Information, Education and Motivation (IEM)
and Research and Evaluation) is not significant except in terms of credit
disbursements, the civil works components of the service delivery and
training parts of the project are experiencing problems owing not only to
delayed implementation but also to proposed budget cuts, revised building
design standards, and domestic and international price inflation. Solutions
to these problems are currently -eing QLscussed wit'- the Government.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 12
Transport Project
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  USU25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977;  Effective Date:  March 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and bid documents for telecommunications
equipment are ready and awaiting clearance by TTB. Lists of spare parts
for BIWTC cargo vessel have been prepared and most items have been ordered.
Consultants appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling
of BIWTC and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their
reports. Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies
is in progress. At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been
extended to December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project has been delayed as a result of the
Borrower's failure to make timely recommendations for award of construction
contracts. Since these contracts were scheduled to commence early October
1980, at the beginning of the construction season, the project has been
delayed by about two years and completion by the anticipated completion
date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion by the Credit Closing
Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on much improved Borrower
performance and elimination of further unnecessary delays.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on July 24, 1981. Contract for trial
dredging at Chittagong for which retroactive financing has been approved,
has been under execution since April 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily.



-41-                    A       u
Page 13
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$2(.O Uillion Credit
of June 2b, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organizing
its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development. TTB
funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government account.
This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to
which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved a level of
financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development program within
the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on commercial accounts
is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be prepared from FY82/83
onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Cove-
nants under the project are now being complied with. TTB has recently taken
final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under the project.
Works related to last procurement will be completed by June 1983. Adequate
actions as would be required to further improve TTB's management, operations
and development capability, will be considered under the proposed third tele-
communications project.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.



-42-
ANI4EX II
Page 14
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
some materials shortages, the drilling of BKII, the results of which are
needed to confirm the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, has
been satisfactorily completed and contracts awarded for the procurement of
line pipe. Award of pipeline construction contract could be made in time
for construction to commence during the 1980/81 dry season.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Consultants for design and supervision of construction and financial
management have been appointed.



ANNEX III
-43-
BANGLADESH
SECOND DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:                Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Two years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
WDB
(c) Date of first preparation to IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
June, 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
June 23, 1980 and February 4, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
September 3, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:               Special IDA Implementation Action
The establishment of a Joint Project Revolving Fund
in an amount of Tk 20 million (US$1.0 million by IDA and
Tk 2.0 million by GOB (paragraphs 67-69).
Section III:              Special Conditions
(a)  WDB possession of land required for the first
year of construction is a condition of IDA's
initial contribution to the revolving fund
(paragraph 56);



-44-
(b) GOB would ensure that, at least three months
prior to any land acquisition, sufficient funds
for such land are deposited with the Deputy
Commissioner or other appropriate authority
(paragraph 56).
Special conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) deposit of funds for acquisition of land for
the first year's construction (paragraph 56);
(b) approval of the project proforma (paragraph 62);
and
(c) establishment of the revolving fund account
(paragraph 69).



IBRD 15269
SEPTEMBER 1980
BANGLADESH
r    .,/DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL U
CHALAN  BEEL SUB- PROJECT
'A,         , -      g     !|                                 PROPOSED
if x    )  t<_,DRAINAGECHANNELS
\,              -.            REGULATORS
'D-oOt no                                     MAIN ROADS
rMAN,- . -.   i;;=>P                         VILLAGE ROADS WITH SERVICE ROADS
NIYAMATPUR  rTHANAEMBANKMENTS
NIYAMATPUR  TI-lANA                      .                                                        . X '/ EXISTING
DRAINAGE CHANNELS
"              /                      XI Vp -   MAIN ROADS   TO BE IMPROVED
I                              _ _   (  | ) X-<<VILLAGE ROADS
RIVERS, REELS, KHALS
g/. />    Kusumrr.   I i ta  >                       ~~~~~~~~~VI LLAGES
i ,. .  --  -   THANA BOUNDARIES
.  t'    SSs       <        \tAND~~~~A  TANIA     m
WESTERN  SECTION                                                                                 EASTERfN  SECTION
TANORE                                               THANAA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 -N' ft;\  
.> MOHANPUR THANAI                      C/
\;     u    ~~~~Solpor  }     c;/ 
),~~~~ ~DURGAPJR    THANA
<>: ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       h                                                         "2-~ ~   _      .
i   ! {     J ,     :                  >                                    S S~~~~~~~~00     '  iihD1
Thd.-    --,, popdos ,d ,HA
KILOMETERS                0N   00001,
PABA  THANA                                                          0   0,0,0 '   d0,0oo,' 






IBRD 15653
90                                             BI   SAN        D         IMARCH  1981
INDIA                                                                                          DIG TR
i-A                      RMA                      J                                                          DHAKANTAPUR                    MITSHWAR R
This~~~~ ~ ~~ Xa has bX pmam by th/
WortDrd 8,k's staff e04us/vly for   GH>\   
,h. reoort to vvhich iti ttahe d.@aSo                6                               0J/                                 t/> 
Th. deno-mst-o used and the                    I]r        n         }           _SX]// I                                             |1 
boouderis aho-z on this .dp-J   )  {  )1 
World 8d-k dd its affifirts*v- a _ Y <t\|rg2/1
judgment on the /ago status of     ,J                4 \             l1i                                                          //
any teritory or dny -ndonsm.n                 I    I.  m\                                                         v^.
o, -2cCptd/-C of -uh boundd.rwrs / <\ 246
PROPOSED %X0XXX'_,   -
ACCESS ROADS               j   --                 |                 3
- -PROJECT BOUNDAR                                                                                                                      AG  URALHO    (\ r         
INA-.        MAINROADS)
VILLAGE ROADS                                                            \                          \    \                                  |
IIIRAILWAY t>4        
_3RIVERS, LAKES  2       
DRAINAGE OUTLET STRUCTUR)\e4C<                                                                    \/               <j/               \/ 
RA20    CONTOUR LINESAFEETP                                                                                                                    MINrESHWA         2
This~~ ~ ~ ~ tna ha bee preare by thel                                                                                                  I
the repert to uhich it is etta shed.~~s                                                                   G
World~ Bak eOndN it aflato an
KILOMETERS 0          1       2 n O t
EMB TBANGLADESH
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT P
HAIL HAOR
91 j140'                                                            91045'
VILLAGE ROADS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ 






IBRD 15654
22-55'                                                                                   C                 MARCH 1981
.MA HItLAFA. 220 55'   \                                                                                           f        t      f
/   (/4%0   \                                       2    &     0/  /            iL                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The dte-om-t-o ttstd an  he
N'K,                                                                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h, -
do not mply, on the pert of the
Word Rank nd to atihitn. an' -Y   0
TATI            J-d~~~~t,gntn 00 tfle legal Stto_o
4\                                                                                ,,                             any t.rrot r -     ay   nn-y nt
1   ;   9;  \    ./                X         )        /S A                 Mr    ^ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A~~~~~~~
I~I gr-//            POLOER2 2
L90 05 'G                                                                                                                                                                         90' D5'
DP/,                                     / AGARA
/   /A                                        ATI
BANG LA D ES H
DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL
PROJECT  T[
|OLOAR '                   -/           \SATLA   BAGDA
PROPOSED
_OL_ER_._      AI MAIN ROADS
f ' t \/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I LLAGE ROADS
t                                                                                          .   FMBANKMFNTS TO BE IMPRO VED
&/ lOTW'ALIrABA                                I'                                                                                -   -          /l'    OAS             MRV5
EXISTING ROADS
FIELD TRACKS
RIVERS
DRA NAGE BASIN OUTLETS
BARtA ALUMARI AI
-      KILOMETERS  __             2_    3_      4_     5
22- SF                        '  



