Tr     rCREDIT NUMBER 1184 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Drainage and Flood Control Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               <?    , 1982, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADES (hereinfifter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME    ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called   the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "WDB" means the Water Development Board, established
and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and Power Develop-
ment Boards Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972) or any successor
thereto;
(b) "DOF" means the Directorate of Fisheries within the
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock of the Borrower;
(c) "Revolving Fund" means the revolving fund account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d) "Tk" means taka, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty four million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 24,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion,.for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause WDB to open a project revolving fund account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursements from the Revolving Fund shall be made exclusively to
finance the --osts of goods and civil works required to carry out
the Project, provided that no disbursements from the Revolving
Fund shall be made for: (i) goods purchased after international
competitive bidding; or (ii) civil works carried out by force
account.
(c) Upon receipt by the Association of evidence, satis-
factory to the Association, that (i) WDB has taken possession of
the land required for construction during the first year of the
Project implementation; and (ii) that the initial deposit in an
amount equal to Tk 2,000,000 referred to in (d) below has been
made by the Borrower to the Revolving Fund, the Association shall
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Revolving Fund an initial amount in the currency of
the Borrower equivalent to $1,000,000 and shall thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Revolving Fund such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Revolving Fund with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Revolving Fund pursuant to subparagraph
(b) above for expenditures for the Project eligible for financing
under the Development Credit Agreement, but only to the extent
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount
already on deposit in the Revolving Fund as of the date of
such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
Tk 20,000,000 inclusive of the funds contributed by the Borrower
pursuant to subparagraph (d) below.
(d) The Borrower shall deposit in the Revolving Fund
Tk 2,000,000 and shall thereafter deposit in such Revolving
Fund, at least once a month, an amount sufficient to maintain the
level of the Borrower's contribution to the Revolving Fund at
Tk 2,000,000.


﻿- 3-
(e) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association
in respect of each payment out of the Revolving Fund such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that the payment was made on account of the
reasonable cost of goods or civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Revolving Fund: (i) was made for any expendi-
ture not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit
Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association and prior to any further
deposit in the Revolving Fund by the Association, deposit in the
Revolving Fund an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Revolving Fund shall be
made when the Association shall have notified the Borrower that
all further withdrawals shall be made under paragraph (a) of this
Section or when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account
shall have reached the equivalent of $23,000,000, whichever
shall be sooner. Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit
shall follow procedures agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable ou each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1992, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2031 each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and C
(other than C.5) of the Project through WDB and Part C.5 of
the Project through DOF with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In the event that the Borrower and the
Association determine that consultants are needed to assist WDB in
carrying out the Project. the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause WDB to construct
and improve the embankments included in the Project in accordance
with desi,,i standards and construction specifications (including
compaction) satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to ensure efficient coordination
among the various WDB units concerned in the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause WDB to maintain a Monitoring
Cell which shall (i) be responsible, inter alia, for overall
Project implementation and monitoring and reporting on the
progress of the Project; (ii) be headed by a Director with the
rank of superintending engineer; and (iii) assist WDB in the
overall coordination of the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) In order to ensure efficient cooperation between WDB and
other agricultural agencies of the Borrower, for the purposes of
Parts A, B and C of the Project, respectively, the Borrower shall
not later than June 30, 1982 establish and maintain three Project
Coordination Committees to report to WDB. The membership, composi-
tion and terms of reference of these Committees shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion in respect of the Project, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Monitoring Cell referred to
in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement to prepare and furnish to
the Association for review, by April 30 of each year of Projhct
implementation, work and procurement schedules for the Project
with respect to the following year-
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) In order to ensure the timely acquisition of the land
required for the construction of the embankments, roads and
other structures included in the Project and without any limita-
tion of its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section and
Section 3.01 hereof, the Borrower shall cause WDB to deposit with,
and make available to, the concerned Deputy Commissioners or any
other appropriate authorities funds sufficient to acquire land, as
follows: (i) promptly after the date of this agreement for the
land required for construction during the first year of the
Project; and (ii) at least three months before land is needed, for
the land to be acquired for construction in the remaining years of
the Project implementation.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) adequate
credit will be made available to farmers in the Project areas; and
(ii) an adequate coverage of the Project areas with extension
services will be maintained.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.09. Not later than March 31, 1982 the Borrower
shall: (i) establish within WDB the position of Member, Operation
and Maintenance; and (ii) appoint the officer and support staff
required for such position.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause DOF to furnish to the Association, for its
comments, not later than June 30, 1983, the recommendations and
findings of the study referred to in Part C.5 of the Project;
and
(b) thereafter, timely implement the recommendations of
the said study taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.Ol. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof. Such records shall include,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures paid out of the Revolving Fund and other expendi-
tures on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures paid out of the
Revolving Fund adequate to show expenditures with respect to
Section 2.02 (c) and to show separately expenditures with respect
to Section 2.02 (d), or on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause WDB and DOF to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (statements of income and
expenses and related statements) in respect of the Project for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿- 8 -
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each of the first two fiscal years and six months after the
end of each fiscal year thereafter, (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by
the said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on
the basis of certificates of expenditures have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided and a separate opinion by an
independent auditor in respect of all expenditures and records for
work carried out by force account; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of WDB and DOF and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon the Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
proper operation and maintenance of the drainage and flood control
facilities, buildings, vehicles and equipment provided under the
Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon the Bor-
rower's obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall (i) furnish to the Association for review, not
later than December 31, 1982 or such later date as shall be agreed
with the Association, an inspection and maintenance program for
the embankments referred to in Parts A (1), B (1) and C (1) of
the Project and (ii) thereafter implement such program, as such
program may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon
the Borrower's obligations under Section 3.06 (c) of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall undertake a monitoring program designed
to assess the impact of the Project on the agricultural develop-
ment of the Project areas. To this end the Borrower shall:


﻿-9-
(a) complete a benchmark survey by December 31, 1983 and
two follow-up surveys about one year and four years, respectively,
after Project completion in order to collect appropriate informa-
tion on: (i) cropping patterns, yields and the use of fertilizers
and pesticides; (ii) farm empLoyment; (iii) farm sizes and land
tenure and (iv) the var! )us modes of irrigation; and
(b) furnish to the Association for review, not later than
June 30, 1982 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, its proposals for the implementation of such monitor-
ing program.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of WDB or for the suspension of its operations, unless upon
any such dissolution, disestablishment or suspension, arrangements
satisfactory to the Association shall have been made to replace it
by another body which will assume and perform all its functions
in respect of the Project and covenants applicable under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association for the establishment of the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower;
and


﻿- 10 -
(c) the requirement referred to in Section 3.07 (b) (i) of
this Agreement has been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date   M/o/ l46921, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.08 and 4.02 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 18 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Financa
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                  Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                    SETU 65886
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (1
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 20,140,000        90%
(2N Equipment, mate-               530,000
rials, vehicles,
and spare parts
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally manufac-                         100% of local
tured                                   expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                         60%
(3) Studies                        620,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                  2,710,000
TOTAL         24,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to provide flood control and
drainage to three separate areas of the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Chalan Beel (about 131,000 acres)
(1) Construction of about 83 miles of embankments and
a drainage network including about 9 new sluices;
(2) Improvement and paving of about 27 miles of main roads,
construction of about 4 miles of new main road, improve-
ment of about 30 miles of village roads and construction
of the road embankment and paving of about 30 additional
miles of village roads (including bridges and culverts);
(3) Construction of miscellaneous ancillary facilities; and
(4) Provision of equipment and vehicles.
Part B:   Satla Bagda (about 72,000 acres)
(1) Construction of about 55 miles of new embankments and
improvement of about 20 miles of existing embankments,
and construction of a drainage and irrigation network
including about 9 gravity drainage regulators and
about 450 inlet sL. uctures in the embankments of the
supplying water courses;
(2' Construction of about 25 miles of new main roads and
about 20 miles of village roads (including bridges and
culverts);
(3) Construction of miscellaneous ancillary facilities;
(4)   4rovision of one ferry boat; and
(5)   Provision of equipment and vehicles.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:   Hail Haor (about 60,200 acres)
(1) Construction of about 8 miles of embankments and a
drainage network including a gravity drainage regulator
and a secondary drainage system;
(2) Improvement of about 40 miles of village roads (includ-
ing bridges and culverts);
(3) Construction of miscellaneous ancillary facilities;
(4) Provision of equipment and vehicles;
(5) Carrying out a fisheries development study and infra-
structure investments in the sector; and
(6) Carrying out groundwater investigation works.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, equipment, materials,
vehicles, and spare parts shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March 1977 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be grouped into bid packages
of $5,000 equivalent or more and let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Association; provided, however, that small civil
works estimated to cost less than $1,000 equivalent may be
carried out through force account.
3.   Items costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may
be procured through local shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations, provided that the aggregate of all items
so procured shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
4.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,


﻿- 17 -
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall
be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods subject to international competi-
tive bidding under Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
"angladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladegh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall


﻿- 18 -
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group 'C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
G.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.


﻿- 19 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
FOR SECRETAR


