Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7482-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Broad-Based Growth Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 22, 2008
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7482-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 22, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework. 
 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions and in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $100,000,000 (one hundred million 
Dollars), as such amount may be converted, from time to time, through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”).  
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread. Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid 
when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
Page  3
-
2
-
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in 
Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the 
aggregate equal  $100,000,000 (one hundred million Dollars) shall be converted 
from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount 
in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed under 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the 
opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives 
of the Program. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
5.01. 
 Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) 
months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expires on 
February 2, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone:  
 
Facsimile: 
 
(502) 22485002  
 
(502) 22485005 
(502) 22485080  
 
(502) 22485084 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By /s/ 
José Francisco Villagrán de León 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:  
 
A. 
Promoting Growth and Strengthening the Investment Climate
1. 
The Borrower, through its Commercial Registry, has established a system 
(
Ventanilla 
Ágil
)
that provides prospective firms with simplified procedures for: (a) the 
filing of a single-step application (Form No. FU-01) requesting all necessary company, 
tax and social security registration; and (b) the issuance of a registration certificate within 
a
period of up to 25 (twenty-five) days following said application, as set forth in the 
official letter (
Oficio
)
issued by the General Director of the Commercial Registry dated 
June 20, 2007.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through its Civil Aeronautics Directorate, has been awarded an air 
transport safety certification (IASA Cat.1) of its facilities at 
La Aurora
 international 
airport in confirmation of the Borrower’s ability to adhere to international standards and 
recommended practices for aircraft operations and maintenance established by the 
International Civil Aviation Organization,
 
as set forth in the official letter (
Oficio
)
No. 
326-2007 issued by the Director General of Civil Aeronautics dated June 19, 2007.
 
3. 
The Borrower, through its Banking Superintendency, has initiated a program of 
legal, administrative and technical actions aimed at further strengthening the Borrower’s 
financial sector, as set forth in the official letter (
Oficio
)
No. 2489-2007 issued by the 
Banking Superintendent dated June 20, 2007, including, 
inter alia
,
the following actions: 
 
(a) 
The application of credit risk-based consolidated supervision procedures, 
on a pilot basis, to selected financial institutions. 
 
(b) 
(i) The mapping of interrelationships between all Financial Groups and 
their subsidiaries and related parties; and (ii) the classification of the 
information derived from such mapping, as the basis for designing a new 
analytical tool, as required for the assessment of the impacts that the 
incorporation or withdrawal of related entities may have on the solvency 
of Financial Groups.  
 
(c) 
The quantitative and qualitative improvement of the data on Large 
Corporate Debtors reported by banking institutions to the Banking 
Superintendency, as required for the assessment, by said banking 
institutions, of the corporate portfolios of said debtors, based on their 
capacity to pay. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
The establishment and operation of a unit (
Unidad de Investigaciones 
Especiales
)
within the Banking Superintendency responsible for the 
investigation of Illegal Financial Activities. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through its Monetary Board, has suspended the licenses of failed 
banks to operate as banking institutions and has started the irrevocable resolution process 
of such banks, as evidenced by Resolution JM-120-2006 issued by the Monetary Board 
on October 19, 2006 and Resolution JM-13-2007 issued by the Monetary Board on 
January 12, 2007.  
 
B. 
Enhancing Capacity for Public Spending in Priority Sectors
1. 
The Borrower, through its Tax Administration Superintendency, has increased its 
capacity for tax administration by carrying out a series of strategic actions including, 
inter alia:
 (a) the monitoring of 3,000 electronic tax declarations submitted by Large Tax 
Payers and the application of cross-check controls of said declarations; and (b) the 
registration of 45,275 individuals and 630 entities as additional tax payers in the unified 
tax registry (
Registro 
Único de Contribuyentes
)
during the period January 1, 2007, to 
May 31, 2007, as set forth in the official letter (
Oficio
)
O-SAT-S-433-2007 issued by the 
Superintendent of Tax Administration dated June 20, 2007.  
 
2. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Public Finance, has:  
 
(a) 
issued a budget execution report dated June 21, 2007, confirming an 
increase in the execution of social expenditures in 2006 to 5.4% of GDP 
compared to 5.3% of GDP in 2005; 
 
(b) 
issued a report verifying that the 2007 budget allocation and the 2007 
Complementary Budget Provisions (
Disposiciones Complementarias que 
Regulan la Ejecución del Presupuesto General de Ingresos y Egresos del 
Estado para el Ejercicio Fiscal 2007
)
enacted through Legislative 
Decree No. 11-2007 dated March 6, 2007 published in the Official 
Gazette dated March 19, 2007, includes,
 inter alia
,
an increase in the 
budgetary allocations for social expenditures as a percentage of GDP in 
2007 greater than the 5.4% of GDP as executed in 2006, as evidenced by 
the official letter (
Oficio
)
No. 458 issued by the Minister of Public 
Finance, dated June 21, 2007; and 
 
(c) 
prepared results-based budgets for the Ministries of Education and 
Health for 2007, as set forth in the budget proposal submitted by the 
President of the Republic 
to the Borrower’s Congress, through official 
letter (
Oficio
)
dated August 28, 2006. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
C. 
Transparency and Public Sector Management
1. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Public Finance: (a) extended the coverage 
of SIAF to 8 (eight) central government and decentralized agencies and about 70 
(seventy) additional municipalities during the period June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007; (b) 
implemented the use of 
Guatecompras
 in at least 370 (three hundred and seventy) public 
agencies out of which 280 (two hundred and eighty) are municipalities, as set forth in the 
report No. SIAF-741-2007 issued by SIAF dated June 20, 2007. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through its Congress, approved the mandatory use and 
implementation of 
Guatecompras
 for all public procurement procedures estimated to cost 
an amount of Q 30,000 (Quetzal thirty thousand) as evidenced by Legislative Decrees 
Nos. 92-2005, 11-2006 and 11-2007, dated respectively, December 19, 2005; May 29, 
2006; and March 19, 2007. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.  The Loan shall (except for amount required to pay 
the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche. The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Loan Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
 
99,750,000 
Front-end Fee 
 
250,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 100,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amount.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
Page  10
-
9
-
D. 
Excluded Expenditures.  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at 
any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
E. 
Closing Date.  The Closing Date is December 31, 2008. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
Beginning November 15, 2009 
through November 15, 2026 
 
2.78% 
On May 15, 2027 
2.70% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
Page  12
-
11
-
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Banking Superintendency” means the Borrower’s supreme body 
(
Superintendencia de Bancos
)
responsible for the regulation and supervision of 
banks, which body was established and is operating pursuant to the provisions of 
Legislative Decree No. 18-2002 (
Ley de Supervisión Financiera
)
effective on 
June 1, 2002. 
 
2. 
“Civil Aeronautics Directorate” means the Borrower’s agency responsible for the 
supervision, regulation and oversight of all civil aviation activities in the 
Guatemalan territory, which agency is operating pursuant to the provisions of 
Legislative Decree No. 93-2000 (
Ley de Aviación Civil
)
dated December 18, 
2000. 
 
3. 
“Commercial Registry” means the registry of individual or corporate commercial 
entities, which registry was established and is operating within the Ministry of 
Economy (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the provisions of Legislative 
Decree No. 2-70 (
Código de Comercio
)
dated January 25, 1970. 
 
4. 
“Congress” means the Borrower’s legislative branch of government. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
Page  14
-
13
-
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
6. 
“Financial Group” or “Financial Conglomerate” means a grouping of financial 
entities registered and regulated by the Banking Superintendency pursuant to the 
legal and financial criteria provided by Art. 27 of the Legislative Decree No. 19-
2002 (
Ley de Bancos y Grupos Financieros
)
effective June 1, 2002. 
 
7. 
“GDP” means gross domestic product. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
9. 
“
Guatecompras
”
means the transparent web-based government procurement 
system of the Borrower. 
 
10. 
“Illegal Financial Activities” means any of the transactions conducted by 
financial institutions described as criminal or illegal activity pursuant to the 
provisions of Arts. 45, 46, 49, 96, 98 and 102 of the Legislative Decree No. 19-
2002 (
Ley de Bancos y Grupos Financieros
)
effective June 1, 2002, and Art. 2 of 
the Legislative Decree No. 61-2001 (
Ley contra el Lavado de Dinero u otros 
Activos
)
effective on December 17, 2001. 
 
11. 
“International Civil Aviation Organization” means the agency established within 
the system of the United Nations responsible for the establishment and 
monitoring of international safety standards.  
 
12. 
“Large Corporate Debtor” means a corporate entity which has incurred in debt 
with a banking institution in an amount of $650,000 or more. 
 
13. 
“Large Tax Payer” means any of the 300 largest taxpayers based on the 
following criteria and using the Borrower’s taxpayer database from the previous 
year: a) net assets, b) gross income, and c) tax payments from the previous year. 
 
14. 
“Ministry of Education” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education. 
 
15. 
“Ministry of Health” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health. 
 
16. 
“Ministry of Public Finance" means
 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance. 
 
17. 
“Monetary Board” means the Borrower’s agency responsible for the monetary, 
exchange and credit policies of the country and the oversight of the liquidity and 
soundness of the banking system as set forth in Article 133 of the Constitution 
and operating pursuant to the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 16-2002 (
Ley 
Orgánica del Banco de Guatemala
)
effective on June 1, 2002.  
 
18. 
“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s official gazette (
Diario de Centro 
Améric
a) wherein, pursuant to the Borrower’s legal and constitutional 
framework, all pieces of legislation must be published to ensure their entry into 
force and effect. 
 
19. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated June 21, 2007, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
20. 
“Quetzal”and “Q” mean the Borrower’s lawful currency. 
 
21. 
“Tax Administration Superintendency” means the Borrower’s agency responsible 
for the supervision of tax administration established and operating pursuant to the 
provisions of Legislative Decree No. 1-98, dated January 12, 1998 (
Ley Orgánica 
de la Superintendencia de Administración Tributaria
)
and published in the 
Official Gazette on February 13, 1998. 
 
22. 
“SIAF” means the Integrated Financial Management System of the Borrower. 
 
23. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 17, 
2007) are as follows: 
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are 
deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program.”
 
