Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:39833   
Operation Name 
Guatemala Third Broad-based Growth Development Policy 
Loan (GT DPL III) 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
PE-P101311-LEN-BB 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Guatemala 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry 0f Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
May 8, 2007 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 20, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
August 2, 2007 
I. 
COUNTRY AND SECTOR  BACKGROUND 
 
With a multi-ethnic population of about 13 million and a per-capita GNI of about $2,350, Guatemala is 
the largest economy in Central America.  While a source of cultural strength and rich historical heritage, 
Guatemala’s ethnic diversity has also unfortunately been accompanied by a pattern of conflict and 
exclusion since colonial times. 
The 1996 Peace Accords marked an important turning point in Guatemala’s development, both ending the 
civil war and setting out targets to reverse the country’s historically exclusionary pattern of social and 
economic development. The Accords set national targets in four main areas: (i) resettlement, 
reincorporation and reconciliation, (ii) human development, (iii) productive and sustainable development, 
and, (iv) modernization of the state and improved governance.   
Largely as a result of the country’s historical legacy, poverty and inequality are high and social indicators 
(health, nutrition, education) are low relative to the country’s average income.  About 56 percent of all 
Guatemalans lived in poverty in 2000 and about 16 percent in extreme poverty, despite a decline in the 
late1990s when growth rates reached 4 percent or about 1.4 percent per capita on average. The 
Government, with analytical support from the Bank, is currently undertaking a new living standards 
measurement survey which will provide updated poverty and welfare statistics by late this year.  
An important impediment to steady progress on growth, poverty reduction and strengthening of public 
institutions since the Peace Accords has been the lack of political and policy continuity. This, in turn, is 
related to the short political cycle and social fragmentation—a legacy of the country’s colonial history 
and civil war.  Presidents are elected for 4-year terms, but given a constitutional limit to a single term, 
positioning by parties and candidates for the next election begins early, with obvious difficulties for 
passage of legislation sponsored by the executive.  There have been a number of efforts to forge longer-
term consensus on development priorities and policies through national dialogues on key issues such as 
fiscal reform, the MDGs/poverty reduction and land, but the impact of these has been limited to date.   
Upcoming elections are in September 2007, but overall policy continuity is expected. Leading 
presidential candidates from both sides of the political spectrum have expressed interest in solidifying 
gains in economic growth and stability, reducing poverty, and deepening progress on governance and 
transparency.  
 
Page  2
2
II. 
PROGRESS UNDER THE GOVERNMENT’S DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
 
Besides maintaining macroeconomic stability, Guatemala’s key challenges in restoring broad-based 
growth are: (i) taking advantage of expanding trade opportunities and ensuring that SMEs can share in 
those opportunities, (ii) strengthening the climate for both domestic and foreign investment and business, 
(iii) modernizing property rights, (iv) addressing infrastructure bottlenecks to growth, (v) continuing to 
strengthen and deepen the financial sector, (vi) enhancing the capacity for efficient and effective poverty-
oriented public spending—especially for education and health, and (vii) strengthening public sector 
management and transparency.  The principal issues and government plans with respect to each of these 
areas are discussed further below in some depth as they form the background to the specific actions 
supported by this DPL series.  For ease of reference they are organized in the same order as they appear in 
the DPL matrix, for which they form the background.  Controlling the high levels of crime and violence is 
another key element of the effort to promote growth (as well as security) in Guatemala.  Issues in this area 
are not described here as they lie beyond the scope of this DPL operation. It should be noted, however, 
that Government is currently working with a number of bilateral donors (including Japan, Spain and 
USA) to implement an integrated strategy to address this problem, within a regional context. 
 
III. OPERATION 
OBJECTIVES 
 
The objective of this loan is to support Guatemala’s progress in promoting more equitable, broad-based 
growth.  Given the design of the Bank’s CAS and the DPL series within the Government’s own 
development plan, there is strong client ownership of the DPL agenda, namely: 
·
promoting equitable growth and strengthening the investment climate
 
·
enhancing capacity for increased public spending in priority sectors
 
·
improving public expenditure transparency and management
 
Following the medium-term framework laid out in DPL I
—underpinned by the substantial body 
of analytical work carried out by the Bank in partnership with the Government of Guatemala, the 
design of key prior actions, triggers and indicators for DPL III support progress in each of the 
above three main areas. 
 
IV. 
RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT 
 
In addition to supporting Guatemala’s efforts in restoring broad-based growth and macroeconomic 
stability, the key rationale for this DPL is to assist the country in its development strategy.  Financing 
provided by this DPL will help support specific Government development efforts in: (i) taking advantage 
of expanding trade opportunities and ensuring that SMEs can share in those opportunities, (ii) 
strengthening the climate for both domestic and foreign investment and business, (iii) modernizing 
property rights, (iv) addressing infrastructure bottlenecks to growth, (v) continuing to strengthen and 
deepen the financial sector, (vi) enhancing the capacity for efficient and effective poverty-oriented public 
spending–especially for education and health, and (vii) strengthening public sector management and 
transparency. 
 
Page  3
3
TENTATIVE FINANCING 
 
Source:  
($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
V. 
INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS 
 
The Government of Guatemala and the Bank have agreed to monitor progress in the DPL program 
regularly. Discussions will be held with the Ministry of Finance, the main counterpart agency for the loan, 
who will be in charge of M&E for the loan and for collecting from the appropriate sources the data 
necessary to assess implementation progress.  Other agencies that will play an important role in this 
process are the Central Bank (for financial sector issues), the Ministry of Economy and the Commission 
for Competitiveness (for trade and investment climate issues), the SAT (for tax administration issues), 
and the Office of the Commissioner for the Government’s Plan.  
 
VI. 
BENEFITS AND RISKS 
 
The 
key benefits
 expected from the program are: (i) Meeting fiscal and financial needs during a year of 
political transition. This proposed loan would help meet the Government’s objective of providing stable 
and low cost financing as well as diversifying financing sources for its 2008 budget—a year of political 
transition. This, in turn, would support the Government’s concurrent goals of maintaining fiscal stability 
and addressing social needs through increased and more efficient spending; (ii) Improving the outlook for 
economic growth. The loan supports a broad agenda of measures anchored around Guatemala’s efforts to 
deepen financial markets as well as enhance its trade and regional integration agenda, including its 
participation in DR-CAFTA. The agenda includes key actions of the complementary agenda of policy and 
institutional reforms to ensure that Guatemala can fully benefit from the opportunities of trade and greater 
integration into the world economy.  Key complementary actions include measures to facilitate the 
expansion of trade and investment levels, improvements in the investment climate, addressing 
infrastructure investment and services, and promoting innovation and technology; and (iii) Increasing the 
efficiency and transparency of public sector management. The loan supports public sector modernization 
efforts aimed at improving the efficiency of public expenditures, strengthening governance and fighting 
corruption with a specific focus on government procurement and financial management. Efforts in these 
areas are also expected to foster an environment more conducive to investment and growth. 
The operation is subject to 
four main risks
 during the implementation of the DPL series: (i) 
Political 
gridlock
,
given a divided Congress in the run-up to September 2007 elections; (ii) 
Societal tensions
 
related to the country’s post-conflict status, especially around controversial areas like tax reform, 
continued trade liberalization, promotion of increased private participation in infrastructure, and issues 
surrounding property rights and land; (iii) 
Exogenous shocks related to natural disasters, 
which could 
derail efforts to attract investment and necessitate unanticipated spending for emergency assistance and 
reconstruction; and (iv) 
Macroeconomic risks due to external or domestic market volatility
,
(e.g., 
domestic financial market risks, low commodity prices, persistently high oil prices, global recession, 
unfavorable conditions in financial markets) that could affect the economy negatively.   
 
Page  4
4
VIII.  
POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS AND ENVIRONMENT ASPECTS 
 
CONTACT POINT 
Contact: David Gould 
Title: Lead Economist and Task Team Leader 
Tel: (202) 458 1114 
Email: 
dgould@worldbank.org
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
The Infoshop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202)45805454 
Fax: (202)522-1500 
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
