Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  5161-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGER
IRRIGATION RERABLITATION PROJECT
May 30, 1985
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank antborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 460
CFAF 1 million = US$2,174
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)      = 10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)       = 35.30 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 hectare (ha)           = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)     = 2,205 pounds (lbs_)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADDM      Ader-Doutchi-Eaggia, an intermittent tributary of the Sokoto River
in the Tahoua Province of Niger
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank for
WTest African Monetary Union)
CA        Centrale d'Approvisionnement (Input Supply Center)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Loan Agency)
CFDT      Compagnie  Fran-aise  pour  le  Developpement des  Fibres  Textiles
(French Company for Cotton Development)
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (National Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank)
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid Grant Agency)
GMV       Groupement Mutualiste Villageois (Village Mutual Group)
INTRAN    Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques du Niger (National
Agricultural Research Institute)
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau  (Federal Republic of Germany Aid
Agency)
NIGELEC   Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite (National Electricity Authority)
OPVN      Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (Grain Marketing Board)
ONAHA     Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles (National Irriga-
tion Authority)
RINI      Societe Riz du Niger (Rice Processing Parastatal)
UNCC      Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation (Nigerien Credit and
Cooperative Union)
FISCAL YEAR
October I - September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ...................................  iii-v
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY ............................................ vi-vii
I. INTRODUCTION... 
A.  Project Background .......................................  1
B.  The Rural Sector .........................................  1
C.   Institutions .............................................  3
D.   Sector Issues and Strategy ...............................  7
II.   PROJECT AREA .................................................. 10
A.   Physical Resources ....................................... 10
B.   Socio-Economic Features .................................. 12
C.   Past Development and Present Situation of
the Irrigation Sub-Sector ................................ 13
III.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ............................ 15
A.   Objectives and Brief Description ......................... 15
B.  Detailed Features ........................................ 16
C.   Status of Project Preparation ............................ 22
D.   Project's Ecological Impact .............................. 22
E.   International Water Rights ............................... 22
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ....................... 22
A.   Cost Estimates ........................................... 22
B.  Proposed Financing Plan .................................. 24
C.  On-Lending and Administration of Funds ................... 25
D.   Special Revolving Fund Account ........................... 26
E.   Procurement and Use of Consultants ....................... 27
F.  Disbursement ............................................. 29
G.  Accounts, Audits and Reporting ........................... 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Niger in
November-December  1983.   Mission  members  included  Messrs.  Djibril  Av
(Agriculturalist/Leader), Bernard Dussert (Financial Analyst), Jan Pruntel
(Engineer) and Ms. Noriko Iwase (Economist), all from IDA, and Messrs.
Jean-Frangois Barres (Rural Development Specialist, Consultant), Adolphe
Chavancy (Agriculturalist, Consultant) and Hendrik Rozeboom (Rice Processing
and Marketing Specialist, Consultant). This report was edited by Ms. Michale
Moriarty (Editorial Assistant) and processed by Mr. Jacques Bourgoin and
Ms. Jehanne Romain.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
thir official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................   31
A. Project Implementation .31
B.  Financial Management ..................................... 32
C.  Credit Management and Marketing .......................... 33
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .34
A. Production .34
B.  Markets ...................,... 35
C. Prices ..................... 37
D. Cost Recovery .39
E.  Financial Implications for Beneficiaries,.,           .   41
F. Financial Analysis of ONARA .44
G.  Recurrent Costs and Impact on Government Finances .45
VII.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .45
A.  Project Benefits ......................                   45
B.  Economic Analysis .......................,,.,,.46
C. Risks .48
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS,....................... 48
ANNEXES
3-1    Evolution of Cultivable Areas
3-2    Input and Agricultural Equipment Requirements
3-3    Construction Schedule
4-1    Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
4-2    Estimated Disbursement Profile
6-1    Evolution of Area, Yield and Production: Rice, Cotton, Sorghum and
Onions
6-2    Cost Recovery: Irrigation for Rice
6-3    Rice Crop Budget
6-4    ONAHA:  Summary Financial Statement
6-5    ONAHA:  Projected Income Statement
6-6    Government Project Related Cash Flow
7      Key Parameters Used in Economic Analysis
MAP
IBRD No. 18074R: Niger - Irrigitation Rehabilitation Project



-Wii-
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Reports by SOGREAH and Louis Berger
Ref. No.                         Document                              Code
A.1         Donnees de base et diagnostic (vallee du fleuve -  126.823 (W1-3)
Ader Doutchi Maggia), May 1982.
A.2         Donnees de base et diagnostic (complement Ader-    126.823 (S1-3)
Doutchi Mag§ia - Vallee de la Komadougou) -
(avenants n s 1 et 2), July 1982.
A.3         Avant-projet sommaire et etude de prefactibilite  126.823 (FF1-3)
des perimatres de l'Ader Doutchi Maggia,
November 1982.
A.4         Avant-projet detaille des perimetres de la           126.823 (LL 115)
vallee du fleuve Niger, May 1983.
A.5         Etudes de la nappe alluviale de l'Ader Doutchi    126.823 (X)
Maggia (avenant n° 4), November 1982.
A.6         Reconnaissances complementaires de l'Ader            126.823 (II)
Doutchi Maggia (avenant no 4), June 1983.
A.7         Avant-projet sommaire et etude de prefactibilite  126.823 (GG)
du perimetre de Sakoira, March 1983.
A.8         Etude de factibilite des perimatres de la vallee  126.823 (MM1&2)
du fleuve Niger, September 1983.
A.9         Organisation Cooperative et Formation (avenant    126.823 (HH)
n° 4), September 1983.
A.10        Etude hydropedologique (avenant no 3), October    126.823 (KK)
1983.
A.11        Dossier d'appel d'offres, stations de pompage,    221.251 (B1-4)
March 1984.



- iv -
Ref. No.                       Document                              Code
A.12       Dossier d'appel d'offres, fourniture de            221.250 (23)
materiel de travaux publics (financed by IDA),
March 1984.
A.13       Dossier d'appel d'offres, fourniture de            221.250 (1)
materiel de travaux publics (financed by CCCE),
March 1984.
A.14       Dossier d'appel d'offres, barrages de l'Ader       221.302 ( 1&2)
Doutchi Maggia, March 1984.
A.15       Dossier reserve a l'administration, April 1984.   221.251 (A1&2)
Report by NIGELEC
A.16       Projet d'alimentation en electricite des           221.249
perimetres irrigues de Kokomani, Saga,
N'Dounga I et II, Iollo, Libore, Seiberi et
Daikena, May 1984.
Reports by HELIOS
A.17       Rapport d'investissement et recommandations         127.608 (G1 8)
sur 1'organisation et la gestion de 1'ONAHA
et des cooperatives.
A.18       Partie I Orientations generales, July 1983.                "
A.19       Partie II Structures juridiques, July 1983.
A.20       Partie III Structures financieres.
A.21       Partie IV Structures organisation gestion
ONAHA, July 1983.
A.22       Partie V Systames organisation et gestion                  "
ONAHA., July 1983.
A.23       Partie VI Organisation gestion - cooperatives,
July 1983.
A.24       Partie VII Organisation - environnement -
economie, July 1983.



v
Ref. No.                        Document                              Code
B. Working Papers
B.1        Engineering Components.                              221.253 (B1)
B.2        Agricultural Components.                             221.253 (B2)
B.3        Training.                                            221.253 (B3)
B.4        Monitoring and Evaluation.                           221.253 (B4)
B.5        Rice Processing and Marketing.                       221.253 (B5)
B.6        Project Costs.                                       221.253 (B6)
B.7        Economic Analysis.                                   221.253 (B7)



- v/I 
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Niger
Beneficiaries:         National Irrigation Authority (ONAHA) and irrigation
cooperatives through ONAHA.
Credit Amount:          SDR 9.6 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
On-lending Terms:       The Government of Niger  would pass on the total credit
amount to ONAHA and cooperatives as a grant, except for
the medium-term credit which would be passed on to
cooperatives as a loan.
Project Description    The  main  objectives  of the  proposed Project  are to
promote   cooperatives'/farmers'   self-reliance    in
management of irrigation schemes in order to ensure the
sustainability of investments, reduce Government's
recurrent costs, increase production, and improve farm
income. The project would comprise the rehabilitation
of existing irrigation perimeters and includes the
tollowing components: (a) rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure and equipment; (b) crop intensification;
(c) assistance to cooperatives; (d) adaptive research
and seed multiplication; (e) strengthening of ONAHA;
and (f) strengthening of RINI.
Project Benefits:      The  Project's   main  benefits   would  derive   from:
(a) incremental production of paddy, cotton, sorghum
and onions on areas to be brought back into production
and increased yield and cropping intensities; and
(b) savings on operating and maintenance costs by
substituting electric pumps for diesel ones.  Lessons
learned under this project, in particular with regard
to cooperative management of irrigation schemes as well
as the role of ONAHA, would be applied to future
investments in this field.
Risks:    No significant technical risks are associated with the physical
rehabilitation works. The only major foreseeable risk is that the
irrigation schemes would be inadequately maintained. This risk has
been minimized under the project by introducing a pump maintenance
scheme by the private sector, by financing an important training
program for cooperatives, and by providing the necessary framework
(contracts between Government and cooperatives, internal regula-
tions, etc.) to establish a reliable system of maintenance and
operations.   Other  possible  risks  are  related  to  management
capability of ONAHA,  the lead executing agency.   They would be



- vii -
minimized by financing a training program for ONAHA's staff and
technical assistance.
Summary Project Cost Estimate:
Local      Foreign       Total
…--US$ million              ---
Rehabilitation Works                           3.6          5.9         9.5
Crop Intensification                           1.4          1.0         2.4
Assistance to Cooperatives                     2.1          1.1         3.2
Applied Research & Seed Multiplication         0.2          0.4          0.6
Strengthening of ONAHA                         1.1          2.0         3.1
Strengthening of RINI                          0.8          0.5         1.3
Project Preparation (PPF)                      0.1          1.1          1.2
Total Base Costs                          9.3         12.0        21.3
Contingencies: Physical                   0.5         0.5          1.0
Price                     1.2          1.7         2.9
Total Project Costs                      110          14.2        252
Financing Plan:
Government and Beneficiaries                   1.6          1.1         2.7
IDA                                            3.8          5.5         9.3
CCCE                                           3.8          5.5         9.3
KfW                                            1.8          2.1         3.9
Total                                    11.0         14.2        25.2
Estimated Disbursements:
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992
…----- US$ million ------
Annual           2.2      1.4       2.0      1.4       1.1      0.8       0.4
Cumulative      2.2       3.6      5.6       7.0      8.1       8.9      9.3
Economic Rate of Return:  18%
Map: No. IBRD 18074R
WAPAC
May 1985



NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Project Background
1.01     At the request of the Government of the Republic of Niger, IDA and
CCCE financed a comprehensive study of the rehabilitation of the irrigation
subsector, which was carried out by consultants SOGREAH/Louis Berger and
Helios, starting in February 1982. The first phase of the study consisted of
a thorough analysis of the subsector and identification of technical, institu-
tional and sociological constraints on performance.  The second phase con-
sisted of a topographic survey of the existing irrigation and drainage net-
works, retention dams and flood control works, preparation of engineering
designs for the bidding and construction stage, and guidelines for institution
building.  The third phase provided a feasibility study for the proposed
project, which was appraised in November-December 1983. The fourth and last
phase, which started immediately after appraisal, consists of additional field
engineering studies and the preparation of bidding documents.
1.02      During appraisal, consultants'  proposals were amended and it was
agreed that the proposed project would include:
(a) all the perimeters included in the first and second phases of the
study, except for three perimeters which were eliminated for tech-
nical and economic reasons, and four other perimeters, which were
being rehabilitated by the European Development Fund (EDF);
(b) two perimeters (Namarigoungou and Say) for which support services
were deemed necessary; and
(c) the rehabilitation of three existing rice mills needed for pro-
cessing incremental paddy production.
B. The Rural Sector
1. Resource Base
1.03      Niger is a land-locked country, bounded by Algeria and Libya to the
North, Chad to the East, Nigeria to the South, and Mali, Burkina Faso and
Benin to the West. Niger's closest access to the sea is about 600 km from its
Southern border.  The country covers 1.27 million kM2, of which 75% is desert,
15% semi-arid and less than 10% suitable for crop cultivation. The popula-
tion, estimated at 5.9 million in mid-1982, is growing at an annual rate of
3.3%. About 75% of the population is concentrated on less than 8% of the land
area formed by the Southern rainfall belt, where annual precipitation is
between 500 mm and 800 mm.  In this area of about 100,000 kM2, population
density averages about 201km2, but exceeds 100/km2 in the more favorable
locations in the valleys, which are mainly found along the Niger River and in
Tahoua Province. Rainfall is not only scant but also irregular, making Niger



vulnerable to droughts.   In the early seventies, Niger experienced severe
drought:   its livestock herd was decimated  and  food production declined
dramatically. Average annual deficits were 135,000 tons, or 122 of the total
cereals demand, but in the worst years (1973 and 1975) the deficits were as
high as 450,000 tons. Most recently, 1983/84 was poor and 1984/85 very poor:
it is estimated that cereal shortfalls in 1984/85 may amount to more than
500,000 tons. The two consecutive years of poor rains in the pastoral areas
may have had a serious long-term impact on the natural pastures. The contri-
bution of the irrigation subsector to national agricultural production is
limited, with irrigated lands representing less than 1% of the total culti-
vated area (para 2.10).
1.04      Between  1976 and 1980, Niger experienced rapid economic growth.
During this period, GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7.5% in real terms.
This high growth rate was attributable on the one hand to rising output and
exports of uranium, and on the other to increased agricultural and livestock
production.  With the increased revenues, Government launched an ambitious
public investment program. During 1980-82, however, the real GDP growth rate
slowed to 1%. This sharp decrease was caused by a drop in uranium prices and
by a slowdown of uranium production and exports, combined with less favorable
harvests than in previous years.
1.05      The uranium boom also induced structural changes in the economy.
The contribution of the mining sector to GDP increased from 8% in 1976 to 14%
in 1979. The importance of construction and public works also increased, due
to greater public investment, from 3% of GDP in 1976 to 7% in 1980.  The
relative importance of the agricultural sector, however, declined from 50% in
1976 to 43% in 1980. Uranium has been the most important export commodity
since 1973, and has accounted for three-quarters or more of total merchandise
exports since 1977. The remainder is made up of agricultural products, mainly
livestock (cattle on the hoof, and hides and skins), followed by cowpeas. The
once-important Nigerien exports of groundnuts dropped dramatically during the
1973/74 droughts, and have since then remained at insignificant levels. While
Niger has been virtually self-sufficient in staple grains since 1976 except in
1984/85, its cereals imports, mainly rice and wheat, have accounted for 3-5%
of total merchandise imports in recent years.
1.06      Despite the recent structural changes and its diminished role in
export earnings, the agricultural sector, including livestock, fishing and
forestry, remains the most important economic activity and the principal
livelihood of the population.  Nigerien agriculture is largely subsistence-
based, producing such food crops as millet, sorghum, and, to a lesser extent,
rice. The principal crop is millet, supplying about 75% of the total cereals
production,  followed by sorghum, providing about 20%.  Rice  is a distant
third, supplying only 2% of the cereals production. Maize production is still
at an insignificant level. The marketed volume of total cereal production is
estimated at 15-17%.  The principal cash crops are groundnuts, cowpeas and
cotton. Groundnut production has declined sharply from 260,000 tons in 1972
to 96,000 tons in 1981, due to a decline in relative profitability vis-a-vis
cowpeas, repeated disease outbreaks and difficulties in reconstituting seed
stocks after drought.  This decline in groundnut production was offset by
cowpea production, which increased from 72,000 tons in 1971 to 280,000 tons in
1981. Compared with groundnuts and cowpeas, cotton has been a marginal cash
crop. It was once exported, but its production has declined and now cannot
meet the needs of the domestic textile industry.



-3-
2. Input Pricing
1.07      Government pursues a policy of subsidies on agricultural inputs,
which have been distributed by the Nigerien Credit and Cooperative Union
("Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation" - UNCC)  through its Input
Supply  Center  ("Centrale  d'Approvisionnement'" - UNCC/CA).   The  subsidized
prices for agricultural equipment, fertilizer and pesticides are fixed by
decree every year. Agricultural equipment is produced at three UNCC workshops
in Zinder, Tahoua and Dosso. Much of the fertilizer comes from Nigeria, where
fertilizer has been heavily subsidized until recently. The amount of funds
available for input subsidies is fixed by the Ministry of Plan: this amount
was halved from CFAF 600 million in 1981/82 to 300 million in 1982/83, but
increased to 550 million in 1983/84.  Since official fertilizer prices were
raised substantially in 1981/82 (40-75%), UNCC/CA has had difficulty selling
its subsidized fertilizer because of strong competition from private traders,
who supply farmers with undetermined quantities of fertilizer smuggled from
Nigeria, particularly in the area close to the Nigerian border (para 6.11).
Official prices of animal-drawn equipment have been gradually increased in
recent years. Despite the above recent price increases, subsidies in 1983/84
still ranged from 21% to 36% on fertilizer and from 42% to 60% on animal-drawn
equipment; they stood at 13% for carts.
3. Output Pricing
1.08      Prices  paid  by  the  parapublic  marketing  agencies  for millet,
sorghum, groundnuts, cowpeas, paddy and cotton had been fixed annually by a
National Price Committee chaired by the Ministry of Commerce and Transport.
These prices, with the exception of paddy, remained almost unchanged from
1978/79  to 1981/82.   They were  then substantially raised  in 1981/82 and
1982/83.  The price of millet increased from CFAF 40 to CFAF 70, then to
CFAF 80/kg (100% over two years), sorghum from CFAF 45 to CFAF 60, then to
CFAF 70/kg (55% over two years), cotton (top grade) from CFAF 62 to CFAF 80,
then to CFAF 120/kg (94% over two years).  As for paddy prices, they were
steadily raised by a total of 90% between 1979/80 and 1982/83, from CFAF 45 to
CFAF 85/kg, which represents 106% of the economic price at farm gate. Cotton
and sorghum are at about 70-75% of their respective economic prices at farm
gate (para 6.09). Except for cotton, private traders are active in parallel
markets, where prices are determined by market  forces.   As part of  its
austerity program supported by the IMF under the Standby Arrangements and by
IDA under the structural adjustment program, Government is considering the
liberalization of the pricing and marketing of most of agricultural outputs
(para 1.23).
C. Institutions
1. Local Government
1.09      A "Prefet" for each of the seven provinces is appointed by, and is
the personal representative of, the President. Each province is divided into
administrative districts governed by "Sous-Prefets". Administrative districts
are further divided into "cantons", each governed by a chief who is elected by
the chiefs of the villages concerned and receives a Government allowance. The
"vcanton" is the point of contact between modern Covernment and traditional
authority. The mechanism for coordinating development activities has been of



- 4 -
Provincial and District Technical Committees under the chairmanship of the
"Prefet" and the 'Sous-Prefet". respectively. These committees include as
members heads of Government technical departments and representatives of local
authorities.  This structure, however, is being replaced by the "Societe de
Developpement" which is organized as a hierarchical structure, i.e., at
national, provincial, district, canton and village levels. The goal of the
"Societe de Developpement" is self-management, as well as participation in
decision-making by the population coucerned, with Government technical
officers limited to advisory roles. Local government has been involved with
the operation and management of irrigated perimeters, land distribution,
eviction of cooperative members not fulfilling their obligations, paddy
marketing, debt repayment, etc.
2. National Irrigation Authority (ONAHA)
1.10      ONAHA, which will be the lead agency for project implementation, was
created in 1979 as a financially autonomous public enterprise of an industrial
and commercial character, taking over from the Rural Engineering Department
for the preparation and execution of irrigation works, and from UNCC for the
operation of irrigation schemes, extension and recovery of water charges.
ONAHA's Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister of Rural Development.
1.11      ONAHA has its headquarters in Saga, 13 km away from Niamey, and has
four regional offices in Tillabery, Niamey, Tahoua and Diffa.  The legislation
which created ONAEA defined two major objectives:  (a) to ensure the execution
of new irrigation works financed by the state, and (b) to ensure operations
and management of existing or new irrigation schemes, including extension
works for farmers. To achieve these objectives, the Central Directorate of
ONAHA is divided into four divisions: the Infrastructure Division (topography
and civil works on force account), the Materials Division (maintenance and
repairs of civil works equipment, vehicles, pumps and tractors), the Agricul-
tural Development Division (land preparation by tractors, agricultural exten-
sion and cooperative management and traiining) and the Administrative and
Financial Division (general administration, personnel and accounting). The
regional  offices  are  similarly  organized.   As  of  September  1982, ONAHA
employed 510 people, of which 194 were at the headquarters and 316 at the four
regional  offices.   During  1983,  however,  efforts  were  made  to  reduce
personnel, and as of October 1983, its total personnel was 351.
1.12      ONAHA has since its creation acquired technical competence in civil
works construction as well as in the area of support to agricultural produc-
tion. The Bank- and KfW-financed Namarigoungou project (Cr. 851-NIR, satis-
factorily completed in March 1984) helped ONARA to develop these skills.
Weaknesses are still found, however, in its administrative and financial
management. Since its creation, ONAHA has been confronted with severe finan-
cial problems resulting from non-receipt of funds appropriated in the Govern-
ment capital budget (National Investment Fund) and from services charged at
rates below actual costs. Internal control over personnel and administrative
procedures seems to be lax, which leads to inefficiency and waste of
resources.



- 5 -
1.13     At the Zinder seminar  1/   (November 1982). the new orientation
toward self-management of irrigation schemes by cooperatives was recommended
and later endorsed by Government. This decision consequently modified the
future roles of ONAHA to:
(a) developing new irrigation schemes and rehabilitating the existing
ones;
(b) acting as manager until cooperatives take over management of peri-
meters;
(c) providing services (maintenance, etc.) at full cost at the request
of cooperatives; and
(d) helping to ensure self-management by cooperatives.
This would entail, in the long-run, personnel and budget reductions, as well
as improved staff training in management and technical matters.
3. Nigerien Credit and Cooperative Union (UNCC)
1.14      UNCC was established in 1962 as a public enterprise responsible for
cooperative development, input supply, seasonal and medium-term credit
recovery and primary marketing. It also managed some agricultural projects
and operated three workshops where farm implements are assembled. At the
Zinder Seminar, the reorganization of UNCC, so that it would deal only with
cooperative training, was proposed and later endorsed by Government. UNCC was
legally dissolved in December 1984. Its functions are being transferred to
the National Union of Cooperatives and the Ministry of Rural Development,
although details remain to be seen.
4. National Agricultural Development Bank (CNCA)
1.15      CNCA, established in 1967 as an offshoot of UNCC, is responsible for
providing agricultural credit, processing loan applications and bookkeeping
for cooperatives'  accounts.  Because  its credit eligibility criteria and
sanctions in case of default have been ill-defined and ill-enforced and
because it diverted most of its financing to questionable lines of credit for
agricultural and agro-industrial parastatals, CNCA is now totally illiquid and
practically bankrupt (para 1.25).
1/ The Zinder Seminar on the organization of agricultural development
projects and related policies was held in November 1982. It attracted a
wide range of participants from national and international organizations,
including representatives of cooperatives. Government officials of the
ministries concerned, youth and women's associations and external aid
donors. The major thrust of the recommendations, proposed at the Seminar
and adopted by the Council of Ministers in March 1983, is a transfer of
responsibility from parastatals to cooperatives, with the goal of
self-management of development activities.



- 6-
5. Rice Processing Parastatal (RINI)
1.16      RINI is the parastatal responsible for paddy processing.  Its equity
is almost entirely owned by Government. It operates three industrial rice
mills (donated by external aid) with a total annual capacity of about 16,000
tons. RINI buys paddy from cooperatives at fixed prices set by Government and
sells the rice to the Grain Marketing Board ("Office des Produits Vivriers du
Niger" - OPVN), or to private merchants at prices also determined by Govern-
ment.   Its  technical and financial capacities have been weak, but have
improved significantly since mid-1983. However, in order to run its rice
mills effectively and reach the breakeven point, RINI would need financial and
managerial assistance in addition to sufficient quantities of paddy to
process.
6. Cooperatives
1.17      Niger has one of the most imaginative and best-adapted cooperative
legislations in West Africa. After the failure of experiments with coopera-
tives based on individual membership, UNCC started a new system in 1966 based
on collective membership in basic socio-economic entities, i.e., villages or
sections of villages in the case of large villages. Village Mutual Groups
("Groupement Mutualiste Villageois" - GMV) have been formed and gradually
regrouped into cooperatives since then; almost all the territory is now
organized into cooperatives. A GM4V is constituted by heads of households in
each village or each section of a village, which is collectively responsible
vis-a-vis the cooperative to which it belongs as well as to credit organiza-
tions.  Each GMV is represented within the cooperative by representatives
consisting of a president, a secretary, a treasurer and five delegates. A
cooperative's general assembly, constituted of delegates from GMVs, elects a
board of directors of the cooperative, which in turn delegates some of its
functions to an executive committee consisting of a president, a secretary and
a treasurer.
1.18      The cooperative legislations issued in October 1978 and January 1979
were designed mainly for rainfed farming and have required that cooperative
boundaries coincide with those of cantons, the lowest layer of the adminis-
trative organization. However, there have been de facto cooperatives on each
irrigated perimeter, whose boundaries never coincide with those of cantons.
UNCC prepared modifications to the legislations of 1978 and 1979, which
essentially recognize the specific character of irrigation cooperatives and
the new structure for cooperatives to be reDresented at the "Societe de
Developpement". This new law was passed in May 1984.
1.19      Irrigation cooperatives formed by all the farmers/beneficiaries in
each irrigation perimeter are assisted by ONAHA for technical and financial
management. When a new irrigation perimeter is developed, ONAHA equips it
with a director and a certain number of village extension workers, depending
on its size. Directors of perimeters currently take care of financial manage-
ment, such as payments to suppliers, keeping track of bank accounts and
calculating irrigation operating costs. Under the proposed project, however,
cooperatives would receive training in literacy and management (para 3.17) and
be in direct charge of the above operations, with perimeter directors having
only an advisory role.  The proposed changes are in line with Government
strategy to promote cooperative self-management.



- 7 -
7. National Agricultural Research Institute (INRAN)
1.20      INRAN is responsible for agricultural research.  It was established
in 1975, under the tutelage of the Ministry of Rural Development, taking over
from French research institutes.   In 1979, INRAN was transferred to the
Ministry of Higher Education and Research and back again to the Ministry of
Rural Development at the end of 1984. Among the research stations it operates
is one specializing in rice and located at Kolo, in the project area. For its
rice program, INRAN is supported by a subregional office of the West African
Rice Development Association  (WARDA).  INRAN  suffers  from  the following
weaknesses: it has virtually ignored farming systems research, its program-
ming and monitoring have been lax, its links with extension agencies have been
weak and its operating budget is not commensurate with its staffing.
D. Sector Issues and Strategy
1. Government Strategy
1.21      Since the droughts in the early  1970s,  Government policy with
respect to the agricultural sector has been to give the highest priority to
food security. Meeting this objective, however, is not easy for Niger's
agricultural sector, which is characterized by the following:
(a) limited and often irregular rainfall which makes rainfed farming
risky and vulnerable to droughts;
(b) a per capita availability of arable land receiving over 600 mm of
rainfall of only one fifth of the average for the Sahelian
countries;
(c) declining rainfed yields, reflecting shorter fallow periods and
cultivation of more marginal lands as a result of population growth
of about 3.3Z per year;
(d) the high cost of irrigation operations, with investment costs above
US$10,000/ha and a per capita availability of irrigable land of only
one third of the average for the Sahelian countries;
(e) inadequate applied research into yield increase by intensification,
absence of technological breakthroughs; and
(f) human resource bottlenecks.
1.22      Government has responded to these challenges and constraints by
developing strategies to exploit the potential of rainfed and irrigated
agriculture.  In rainfed agriculture, the strategy is to set up, in viable
rainfed cultivation areas, a regional "Productivity Project" that would
provide smallholders with improved extension, input supply, credit and
marketing.   In controlled irrigation,  the Five-Year Plan 1979-1983 set a
modest goal of developing of about 1,000 ha per year, which was achieved on
average during the Plan period. The results so far obtained from tl.e area-
based productivity projects in rainfed agriculture have been far below those
originally expected, and serious reevaluation of the on-going projects is
underway. At the Zinder Seminar in November 1982 on the organization of



- 8 -
agricultural development projects and related policies (para 1.13), the
constraints and difficulties in implementing current large-scale area develop-
ment projects were recognized. The Government's stated policies following the
Zinder Seminar recommendations are:
(a) mobile, better-trained extension teams responding to changing local
demands;
(b) promotion of farmer participation and self-management; and
(c) small-scale, village-level tests and demonstration activities to
promote "bottom-up" technical packages.
2. Policy Issues
1.23      On the output pricing and marketing issue, given its large deficits
and severe burden on the financial sector, redefinition of OPVN's roles is
under intensive discussion in the context of the structural adjustment
program.   Government  is  making  arrangements  to  liberalize  pricing  and
marketing of millet and sorghum by adopting a tender system. Under the IMF
Standby Arrangements, the pricing and marketing of cowpeas have already been
liberalized.
1.24      On the input pricing issue, Government's desire to transfer income
from uranium to the rural sector has been thwarted by a drop in uranium
revenues.   Following the Zinder Seminar recommendations,  the Government's
stated policies are:
(a) maintaining the absolute volume of Government subsidies at their
1983 level;
(b) reducing subsidy rates gradually; and
(c) liberalizing input distribution, thus allowing cooperatives to take
charge of input purchase and distribution, and giving priority to
new areas in need of subsidies.
Following the dissolution of UNCC (para 1.14), the reorganization of the input
distribution system by CA is being studied and aims at transferring management
of input distribution to cooperatives and encouraging direct transactions
between private traders and cooperatives.
1.25      Agricultural credit is in real difficulty.  The national agricul-
tural credit bank (CNCA) is virtually bankrupt (para 1.15), with outstanding
credits of CFAF 7.5 billion, most of which are unrecoverable.   The main
problem of CNCA is that it has been forced to deviate from its original
mandate and has turned to financing seasonal credits and operating deficits of
public enterprises, directing less than 20Z of its total resources to farmers.
Furthermore, the lack of stringent criteria for credit allocation and
repayment has led to a high delinquency rate. It is IDA's view that CNCA
cannot become viable given (a) unsatisfactory recovery rates and the related
bad precedents set, and (b) the low estimated demand for medium-term credit
whereby no agricultural bank could meet all its costs at current rates of
interest.   IDA has  suggested  that  CNCA  should  cease  operations  and be
liquidated and that, as an alternative to CNCA, interim mechanisms should be



-9-
sought within projects where there is effective demand for credit, until
longer-term solutions are found.  The proposed project would entrust the
management of short- and medium-term credit to cooperatives with technical
assistance from ONAHA. The above three issues, namely, output pricing, input
pricing and agricultural credit have been extensively discussed with
Goverment in connection with the structural adjustment programs and will
continue to be addressed in the context of the ongoing policy dialogue.
3. Previous Bank Involvement in the Rural Sector
and Performance Evaluation
1.26      Since 1969, nine credits have been approved for a total of US$91.6
million. They include one agricultural credit, one drought relief project,
two in forestry (Forestry I and II), three projects in rainfed-based area
development (Maradi I, II and Dosso), one in the irrigation sub-sector
(Namarigoungou), and one in livestock. The first credit (Cr. 207-NIR: Agri-
cultural Credit project for US$0.6 million) was signed in 1970 and aimed at
providing smallholders with credit for seasonal inputs and implements. The
results were far from satisfactory for several reasons, including a lack of
support for production technology and severe droughts during the project
period. The second was the Drought Relief project (Cr. 441-NIR: US$2 million)
of 1974 to finance small subprojects which were generally executed satis-
factorily.   Two  forestry  projects  (Cr. 800-NIR  for  US$4.5  million  and
Cr. 1226-NIR for US$10.1 million) were approved in May 1978 and April 1982,
respectively. The first forestry project financed 400 ha of pilot irrigated
tree plantations, as well as 700 ha of pilot state-managed rainfed tree
plantations. The second project is financing rural mini-nurseries to supply
plants for about 6,200 ha of rural tree plantations, as well as the expansion
of state-managed rainfed tree plantations. Due to the recent drought, the
project is being reoriented to concentrate on maintenance and rehabilitation
of  the  plantation  already  executed.   Three  credits  for  rainfed  area
development schemes (Maradi I: Cr. 608-NIR for US$10.7 million, Dosso:
Cr. 967-NIR for US$20.0 million and Maradi II: Cr. 1026-NIR for US$16.7
million) became effective in October 1976, February 1981 and February 1982,
respectively.  Although  the first Maradi project has been satisfactorily
completed, the second Maradi and Dosso Agricultural projects have encountered
major difficulties in implementation, mainly due to lack of technical break-
throughs in rainfed farming (Maradi and Dosso) and to weak project management
(Dosso), and have failed to attain their agricultural production objectives.
The Livestock project (Cr. 885-NIR for US$12 million), approved in March 1979,
covers the center and east of the country and mainly provides a package of
services such as animal health, animal husbandry and delivery of drugs and
feed supplements to pastoralists in the semi-arid pastoral zone; it had been
proceeding satisfactorily until the recent drought hit the project zone very
severely.
1.27      The Namarigoungou Irrigation project (Cr. 851-NIR) became effective
in October 1979 and construction started in early 1980. IDA financed US$15.0
million, KfW financed DM 12.5 million (US$6.0 million), and to meet the
financial difficulties of the project, KfW later granted an additional DM 10.0
million (US$4.0 million).  The project has increased Niger's agricultural
production, especially rice (about 10,000 tons of incremental paddy produc-
tion), through the development of 1,450 ha of irrigated lands (1,350 ha of
rice perimeters and the rest for vegettbles and other crops), and has raised
the income of participating farmers. Other project components included the



- 10 -
provision of services to farmers already cultivating in the project area,
training for staff and farmers, and the improvement of health services.
1.28      Efficiency of use of construction equipment under force account
started poorly but greatly improved  during the construction period.  The
quality of the work, moreover, was good. Overall, ONAHA has developed con-
siderable skill in civil works construction, which could be used to advantage
in the proposed project.
1.29      The project's main achievements are:
(a)  the setting up of two cooperatives which are models  for other
cooperatives;
(b)  the successful introduction of animal traction (no land preparation
by tractors) and foot-operated threshing machines;
(c)  a good record of cost recovery:  in addition to the cost of inputs,
beneficiaries bore the full cost of energy and pumping set mainte-
nance, and set aside a provision for equipment replacement;
(d)  effective   seed  multiplication  at  the  farmers'   group  level
(Namarigoungou even produces seeds for other perimeters);
(e)  applied research (fertilizer, pest control) to make up for deficien-
cies at the national level; and
(f)  acceptable  yields  (despite serious pest attacks, present yields
average 4 tons/ha of paddy) and double cropping on the entire area
developed.
The appraisal mission of the proposed project judged, however, that to sustain
the present high performance further support would be necessary.  For this
reason, the Namarigoungou perimeter would be included in the proposed project
for such aspects as credit, follow-up training, agricultural extension,
assistance to cooperatives, and monitoring of alkaline soils.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Resources
1.  Location and Climate
2.01      The project area  (see Map No. IBRD  18074R)  is divided into two
parts.  The first, located in the Niamey Province, consists of the Niger River
valley, stretching about 500 km across the country.  The other part, located
in the Tahoua Province, is composed of the basin of the Ader-Doutchi-Maggia
(ADM), an intermittent  tributary of the Sokoto River.   The total area to
benefit directly from the project area is Sahelian. Average annual rainfall
in the Niger River valley ranges from 400 mu in the Namarigoungou perimeter in
the north to 650 mm in Say in the south. In the ADM valley, these values lie
between 400 and 600 mm. Rainfall during the last decade has frequently been
below average, but the statistical evidence for a possible long-term trend is



- 11 -
inconclusive. About 80% of annual rainfall is received during the four-month
period from June through September. Rainfall is usually brief, violent and
localized. Temperatures are highest in May/June with an average maximum of
44°C, and lowest in December/January, with an average minimum of 11°C.
2. Hydrology
2.02      The water discharge of the Niger River undergoes rather smooth
changes due to the regulatory effect of the inland delta in Mali. The median
maximum flow at Niamey is over 2,000 m3/s, and normally occurs in November.
The median minimum discharge occurs in end-June, and was 14 m3/s for the
period 1966-80, down from the 37 m3/s observed in the period 1929-65. Between
1966 and 1980, the minimum dry season discharge exceeded 3.5 m3/s nine years
out of ten, the most critical period being from end-June to mid-July. Strict
adherence to the cropping calendar is required to limit water use exclusively
to rice nurseries during this period. The development and use of short cycle
varieties would further alleviate the problem. Water supply in the ADM region
is sufficient for supplementary irrigation of the wet season crop. However,
catchments can only irrigate parts of the perimeters' area during the dry
season. The situation has also gradually deteriorated due to siltation of the
reservoirs; for instance, it was found that the storage capacity of the
Ibohamane and Moulela reservoirs has decreased by half over the past 15 years.
The situation is less severe for the other perimeters included in the proposed
project. Groundwater found in the reservoir bottom and in some parts of the
perimeters is used to grow off-season crops and vegetables. The water quality
in both the Niger and Maggia Rivers is excellent for irrigation and can be
classified Cl-SI in the USBR classification system.
3. Soils
2.03      The  soils of the ADM perimeters  are composed mainly  of mixed
calcareous alluvium; they are mostly deep, low in organic matter, moderate to
low in inherent fertility, erosive on slopes, and are quite variable in
texture depending on their depth and location within most perimeters. Soil
alkalinity is not a problem in these perimeters and salinity is found only in
some spots at the foot of the Moulela and Ibohamane dams. Neither alkalinity
nor salinity will be a problem as long as subsoil drainage continues to be
satisfactory (except, as indicated above, close to dams constructed on per-
meable subsoils). The soils of the rice perimeters near Tillabery are silt
loams to clay loams, low to moderately low in organic matter, and moderately
fertile. These perimeters generally lie slightly higher than the floodplain
oi the river, and pose no serious drainage problems. Salinity/alkalinity are
not evident here either, except in unirrigated areas where the water table is
high (Daikena and Lossa), on old high bunds and on wind-blown soil piled
against upraised rocks (Kokomani), and in swampy areas along the Niger River
(Sona).  Soil textures of the rice perimeters near Niamey range from silt
loams to clays, with some sandy loams, particularly in the N'Dounga area.
Heavy cracking clays are common in Saga, Seiberi and Saadia. These perimeters
are for the most part relatively low-lying and tend to be very poorly drained;
a high percentage of their gross areas is either swampy or under water most of
the year.  These poorly drained areas would be reclaimed under the project
through construction of adequate drains. Salinity is found in some places in
the Seibery perimeter, but would not be a threat with adequate water manage-
ment practices.



- 12 -
B. Socio-Economic Features
1. Population and Land Tenure
2.04      The project would directly benefit about 80,000 people.  In the
Niger River valley, the dominant ethnic groups are the Songhay (or more
specifically, the Kado group) in the Tillabery district and the Zarma in the
Niamey district. In addition, one finds, on irrigated perimeters, the Kourtey
group (originally Peul), who are pastoralists and traditional rice growers,
and the Wago group, who are also rice growers.   Irrigation schemes have
displaced some farmers who cultivated rice in the floodplains with traditional
methods.   Land allocation depends basically on the number of active male
adults: each parcel is about 0.25 ha, but a family with several active male
adults may be allotted more than one parcel. Priority was also supposed to be
given to former occupants (mainly Kourtey and Wago) growing traditional rice,
but this rule was not always respected, since the Kados, although not rice
growers, are numerically dominant in the area. A detailed survey of family
units and allocation of irrigated parcels is available only for Namarigoungou.
It shows that, on average, there are 1.8 male adults and 0.42 ha of irrigated
land per family unit, or 0.23 ha per active male adult. Other sample surveys
indicate that an average family unit contains 12 people in the Sona, Lossa and
Kokomani areas and 10.3 people in N'Dounga, Libore and Seiberi. The socio-
economic study carried out as part of project preparation work found certain
evidence that the economic situation of women had deteriorated because of
irrigation development,  e.g., reduction of areas available for vegetable
gardening and shortage of fuelwood. In view of redressing the situation, and
promoting integration of women in cooperative development, the proposed
project would finance certain promotional activities for women.
2.05      In the few urban perimeters close to Niamey there are some absentee
beneficiaries of irrigated parcels.   They often live in town, have non-
agricultural income, and contract out their rice cultivation. This practice
naturally lowers yields, leads to the neglect of irrigation works, and results
in non-payment of collective charges.  Although this is not a widespread
problem, internal cooperative regulations (para 3.16) would  eliminate low-
performance beneficiaries.
2.06      Farmers engage in both rainfed farming and rice cultivation during
the wet seasons. Since irrigated parcels are small, families consider them a
supplementary source of cereals. They also have supplementary income from
sales of livestock, market gardening (particularly near Niamey) and miscella-
neous jobs. Seasonal or longer-term emigration of young men, to urban areas
and neighboring countries, is also common.
2.07      In the ADM valley, the dominant group is Hausa, but Aderawa N'Gabas
(related to the Touareg) and Peul are also present. An average family unit
has about 8-10 people. In Ibohamane, farmers typically engage in irrigation
for cotton and sorghum, rainfed farming for millet and sorghum, gardening in
the reservoir dam in dry seasons, as well as some livestock.
2. Roads and Communications
2.08      All perimeters, except three in the Niger River valley, are served
by a tar-surfaced road. Perimeters in the ADM valley are linked by earth



- 13 -
tracks passable year-round, except for two months during the rainy season.
The vicinity of the capital and other towns (Tillabery, Tahoua, Say, Malbaza,
etc.) provides a large outlet for all agricultural products, along with
banking and postal facilities.
3. Health
2.09      Recent  surveys  have  shown  that  waterborne  diseases  (malaria,
bilharzia and gastro-intestinal infections) are of serious concern, especially
for young children.  The proposed project would not exacerbate the present
situation, but would instead reduce the incidence of malaria and bilharzia by
improving the drainage and cleaning of canals.
C. Past Development and Present Situation of
the Irrigation Sub-Sector
1. Irrigation Potential in Niger
2.10      The irrigation potential in Niger is estimated at about 270,000 ha.
Of this total, about half (140,000 ha) is in the Niger valley. The rest is
divided into the ADM valley (20,000 ha), the area along the Komadogou River
and Lake Chad in the East (50,000 ha), and ancient river valleys called
dallols and other small valleys (60,000 ha). As compared with the potential
in the Niger and ADM valleys, that of the Komadogou River and Lake Chad area
and dallols is much less known and little developed. Out of the irrigation
potential in the Niger valley of 140,000 ha, only 30,000 ha are lowlands
("cuvettes"), which have generally good soils easily irrigable by low-lift
pumping. The rest consists of upland terraces where soils are quite hetero-
genous and high-lift pumping is costly. As of end 1983, there are about
10,000 ha developed or under development in Niger, of which 6,000 ha are in
the Niger valley and 3,500 ha in the ADM valley.
2. In the Niger Valley
2.11      Modern irrigation, aimed at securing full control of water, was
introduced only in the mid 1960s and has been implemented in piecemeal
fashion. The development of 6,000 ha of irrigated land involved 12 different
donors, and a variety of designs, equipment brands, services to farmers and
cost recovery policies. With the exception of Namarigoungou (1,450 ha), all
perimeters have areas of between 50 and 400 ha.  About 90% of the areas
developed are under rice monoculture.   Irrigation is obtained by low lift
pumping, for which most pumping stations are equipped with diesel engines.
Construction costs are in the range of US$10,000/ha, which is unusually high.
This is due to the country's land-locked position, the lack of effective
competition and of economies of scale, high design standards (all primary and
secondary canals are lined), and the absence of multi-annual contracts. The
proposed project includes 13 perimeters in the Niger valley, namely, all
perimeters except for five EDF-financed perimeters, two USAID-financed peri-
meters, and three perimeters eliminated for technical and economic reasons.
2.12      Yields as high as 6 tons paddy/ha/crop are possible at farm levels
if all recommended practices are used, but overall performance has not ful-
filled this potential. In 1982, average yields on the rice perimeters were
estimated at 2.6 tons/ha/crop. Moreover, about one quarter of the total land



- 14 -
developed was abandoned and farmers could not manage a second crop on about
15% of the cultivated area. The reasons for this poor performance are:
(a) faulty designs, e.g., some pumping stations are located in parts of
the river that dry up during the low-flow season;
(b) excessive reliance on parastatals for the design, operation and
maintenance of the irrigation schemes.   Because they lacked the
financial resources, the flexibility and the skilled manpower, they
could not perform satisfactorily;
(c)  ill-defined agronomic packages, e.g., there is a uniform recommenda-
tion for fertilizer application that has no basis in reliable
adaptive research. Similarly, no prescription was available when an
outbreak of White Fly (Aleurocybotus indicus) occurred in 1982;
(d) lack of a good seed multiplication and distribution system;
(e) workload conflicts between the wet season rice crop and traditional
rainfed crops, although there are ways to resolve, or at least to
alleviate, these conflicts, primarily by providing animal traction
equipment, which already exists in some cooperatives; and
(f) lack of incentives for farmers: with the above difficulties, output
on irrigated plots could hardly meet farmers' needs for self-
sufficiency, yet Government tried to impose mandatory quantities to
be marketed in order to supply Government-owned mills. Until 1982,
official prices were not sufficiently attractive.
3. In the ADM Valley
2.13      Modern irrigation was introduced in the ADM valley, as in the Niger
valley, in the mid-1960s. Irrigation potential and the level of development
are, however, much lower than in the Niger valley (para 2.10). Irrigation,
obtained by gravity from small catchment basins, makes up for any shortfall in
rains during the rainy season.  The main crops during the wet season are
cotton and sorghum, rotated in a ratio of 1:1, which has proven satisfactory
on both  technical and economic grounds.   Performances  are already high:
average yields are 2.6 and 1.85 tons/ha/crop for cotton and sorghum, respec-
tively. Dry season crops are vegetables (mainly onion), maize and wheat. On
one perimeter, double cropping is impossible because of the low capacity of
the reservoir. On the others, 10-50% of areas developed are double cropped.
2.14      Because gravity irrigation requires few operating expenses,  the
situation in the ADM valley is not as serious as that in the Niger valley.
The main problem is that the increasing siltation of the reservoirs, which
cannot be prevented, reduces the capacity of the reservoirs and will
eventually fill them up.  Another problem is the poor maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage infrastructure, which can lead to the abandonment of
parts of the perimeters.



-15 -
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Objectives and Brief Description
3.01      The overall objectives of the proposed project, which are in accor-
dance with Government's policies on food security, are to improve incomes and
the general welfare of the rural population in the project area.  The key
innovations being introduced are: the extensive participation of beneficia-
ries in the operation and management of perimeters, an increased cost recovery
rate and the involvement of the private sector in the maintenance of pumping
equipment.   Together,  these are expected to ensure the durability of the
irrigation schemes. Specific objectives are:
(a) rehabilitation of infrastructure and equipment on 16 perimeters (11
perimeters in the Niger valley, covering about 2,200 ha, and five
perimeters in the ADM valley, covering about 850 ha); generalization
of the practice of rice double cropping on the 11 perimeters in the
Niger valley; an increase in water availability for the dry season
crops and extension of the useful life of the reservoirs in the ADM
valley;
(b) crop intensification, in order to raise the average paddy yield by
about 1.2 tons/ha/crop on the above-mentioned 2,200 ha of rice
perimeters to be rehabilitated, and to consolidate the performance
of the Namarigoungou and Say perimeters (1,650 ha);
Cc) assistance to cooperatives, to promote self-management and self-
reliance on 18 perimeters (the 16 perimeters to be rehabilitated and
those of Namarigoungou and Say), totalling about 4,700 ha; and
(d) strengthening of ONAHA and RINI.
3.02      The above objectives would be achieved through the following project
components:
(a) rehabilitation works;
(b) crop intensification, including promotion of animal traction;
(c) assistance to cooperatives;
(d) adaptive research and seed multiplication;
(e) strengthening of ONAHA, including setting up a monitoring and
evaluation unit; and
(f) strengthening of RINI.
3.03      The project would be implemented over a five-year period,  from
October 1985 to September 1990.  Rehabilitation works are expected to be
completed during the first two years.



- 16 -
B. Detailed Features
1. Rehabilitation Works
3.04      Rehabilitation works would cover 11 perimeters in the Niger valley
(Daikena, Kokomani, Sona, Lossa, Kirkissoye, Saadia, Saga, Libore, N'dounga I,
N'dounga II and Seiberi), totalling about 2,200 ha, and five perimeters in the
ADM valley (Moulela, Kawara, Guidan-Magagi, Tounfafi and Ibohamane), totalling
about 850 ha. The main improvement in the Niger valley would consist of the
replacement of all diesel-driven pumping units with electric ones, which are
easier to maintain and more economical. Diesel pumps will be repaired and
kept as back-ups in case of power failure. In the ADM valley, the main works
would be the rehabilitation of catchment dams. Details of works to be carried
out are as follows:
(a) in the Niger valley:
(i) electrification of seven irrigated perimeters including the
erection of 24 km of medium tension transmission line;
(ii)  installation of 38 electric pumping units and four diesel-
driven pumping units in 14 pumping stations, either to replace
existing electric or diesel-driven pumping systems, or to add
additional drainage capacity, including rehabilitation/con-
struction of associated structures and civil engineering
works; the additional energy requirement can be accommodated
within the existing capacity;
(iii)  reshaping and reinforcement of about 30 km of protection
dykes, to protect the perimeters against the
maximum flood levels occurring in a one to one hundred-year
frequency;
(iv)  rehabilitation of some 75 km of irrigation canals, 135 km of
primary and secondary drains, 190 km of field drains, 190 km
of access roads; and the rehabilitation of associated struc-
tures; and
(v) construction of three cooperative stores;
(b) in the ADM valley
(i) rehabilitation of three catchment dams, including raising the
crest level of one dam (Ibohamane);
(ii)  reshaping  and  reinforcement  of about  15 km  of protection
dykes; and
(iii)  rehabilitation of some 30 km of primary and secondary
irrigation and drainage canals, and 30 km of tertiary drains,
as well as 5 km of primary roads.
3.05      Most of the primary and secondary irrigation canals in the Niger
valley perimeters are concrete lined, whereas in the ADM region most canals
are lined with the natural stones (laterite) abundant in that region. Reha-
bilitation of the irrigation canals consists mainly of silt and brush removal,
filling of dilation groves and reshaping of embankments. The present drainage
system, especially in the perimeters south of Niamey and in the ADM, is
inadequate and would be reconstructed to a capacity of the main drains of
1.2 1/s/ha in the Niger valley and 2.5 1/s/ha in the ADM region. Most of the
primary and secondary drains would be reshaped under the proposed project and
some new ones dug. All field drains would be reconstructed. To provide
all-weather access, primary access roads leading to pumping stations would be



- 17 -
reshaped and resurfaced with laterite; all other access roads would be re-
shaped as needed.
3.06      The capacity of the pumping stations to be rehabilitated would be
designed for 2.65-3.30 1/s/ha depending on the conveyance system (open canals
or buried pipes) and climatic conditions. Farmers would irrigate a maximum of
12 hours per day for rice in the Niger valley and ten hours per day for upland
crops in the ADM region.   The existing irrigation canals were originally
designed for about 1.6-6.0 1/s/ha and most canal capacities would not be
changed, since current discharge and water levels are adequate.
3.07      The electrification of the pumping stations would be subcontracted
to the National Electricity Authority (NIGELEC). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that ONAHA and NIGELEC would conclude an agreement satisfactory
to IDA not later than December 31, 1985. Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that farmers would be given preferential rates of electricity for
irrigation.
2. Institution Building for Adequate Maintenance
3.08      Proper maintenance of pumping equipment is one of the most critical
conditions for the success of the project. ONAHA, as a Government agency,
cannot attract the qualified staff required for a high standard of pumping
equipment maintenance and for the monitoring of spare parts inventory. It is
also subject to Government pressure to be lax on the collection of payments
for services it renders to cooperatives, a practice which would eventually
lead to poor maintenance. For these reasons, maintenance of pumping equipment
would be entrusted to the private sector. Maintenance contracts would bind
each cooperative and representative of an equipment supplier and would be
monitored by ONAHA.  In order to keep maintenance costs to a minimum and at
the same time prevent poor maintenance, ONAHA would review the contractor's
performance under maintenance contracts annually, as well as supervise imple-
mentation of pump maintenance. Bids for pumping equipment were invited for a
package of pumps and maintenance. Only one supplier proposed a maintenance
contract. which was found too expensive. Negotiations with the supplier are
under way  to reduce maintenance  costs.  Assurances were  obtained during
negotiations that ONAHA would ensure that arrangements satisfactory to IDA are
made to assist cooperatives to select qualified contractors for the mainte-
nance of pumps and review annually the adequacy of such maintenance by such
contractors and take action to remedy any maintenance deficiencies disclosed
by the annual review.
3.09      Maintenance  of  irrigation  and  drainage  canals  and  dykes  that
requires heavy equipment would be the responsibility of ONAHA, though farmers
would have the option of hiring a private contractor.  The project would
finance the cost of the equipment and the creation of two brigades attached to
the regional offices of Niamey and Tillabery.  The periodicity of works on
each canal would be agreed in the ONAHA-cooperative contracts (para 3.16),
with a fee covering ONAHA's full cost.
3.10      Any canal maintenance that can be done by hand would be the benefi-
ciaries'  responsibility.  If they do not perform the task satisfactorily,
ONAHA would do it and charge the labor to cooperatives.



- 18 -
3. Crop Intensification
3.11      Crop intensification would be carried out on the 16 perimeters to be
physicalLy rehabilitated (para 3.04) and Say, and continue to be carried out
on the Namarigoungou perimeter,  totalling about 4,700 ha (Annex 3-1).  It
would aim at:
(a)  an average paddy yield of 3,850 kg/ha/crop on the 13 rice perimeters
(3,800 ha)   compared   with   the   present   average   yield   of
2,600 kg/ha/crop on the perimeters to be rehabilitated;
(b)  a cropping intensity of 2.0 on the 11 rice perimeters to be rehabi-
litated, compared with the present cropping intensity of 1.85; and
(c)  average yields  of  about  2,800  and  2,000 kg/ha  for  cotton and
sorghum, respectively, on the five perimeters in the ADM valley
(850 ha),  compared with the present yields of about 2,600 and
1,850 kg/ha, respectively.
3.12      Agronomic packages.  Agronomic packages for rice would be based on
proven techniques already promoted on the Namarigoungou perimeter and on
previous experience in similar ecological conditions.   Rice transplanting,
which is already a general practice, would be maintained. The variety now
grown, IR 1529-680-3, performs well in terms of yield, grain quality and
milling out-turn. Its cycle is also satisfactory: 135 and 125 days for the
dry and wet seasons, respectively. However, the project would aim at identi-
fying varieties with shorter cycles (8-10 days less per crop) in order to help
generalize double cropping and save on energy costs. The project would set up
a simple seed multiplication scheme, taking advantage of the autogamous
character of rice and its high multiplication coefficient from seed to harvest
(about  100).   In  these  conditions,  small  quantities  of  foundation  seed
produced by INRAN (para 3.18) would be multiplied on collective cooperative
seed plots or by contract farmers on site, in order to produce enough good
quality seed for the next crop. By repeating this process, the rice field
would be progressively cleaned of impurities and good varietal purity would be
achieved in two to three years.
3.13      Fertilizer and pesticide application.  Application rates of fertili-
zer on rice would be upgraded since the results of trials carried out over
five cropping seasons under the Namarigoungou project demonstrated that the
new formula (400 kg of compound fertilizer 15-15-15 and 150 kg of urea) would
yield incremerntal value of production 5-6 times greater than incremental
fertilizer costs with the presently practiced formula (100 kg of compound
fertilizer and 200 kg of urea) under the existing price structure. This rate,
already applied since 1984 in the Namarigoungou perimeters, would be adjusted
during project implementation to fit diverse ecological conditions, in the
light of results of the adaptive research program (para 3.18). Seed dressing
and insect control techniques tested in Namarigoungou would be extended to all
rice perimeters. On cotton, sorghum and onion, application rates would remain
unchanged except for insecticides on cotton, which would be changed to a more
active and efficient formula. Cooperatives would be provided with a seasonal
credit fund to purchase inputs in required quantities and to offer seasonal
credit to their members. Details of input rates and requirements are found in
Annex 3-2.



- 19 -
3.14      Farm implements.   Animal traction equipment and pedal threshers
would be promoted to permit timely land preparation and threshing, and to
alleviate workload bunching between rainfed crops and the wet season rice
crop. The objective would be to have one set of farm equipment for 2 ha of
irrigated rice perimeters. To meet this target, the project would supply, on
credit, 2,000 pairs of draft animals with matching equipment (tool bar, plow,
cultivator and cart, no farmer would be obliged to take a full set of equip-
ment) and 1,500 pedal threshers.   In addition to 13 rice perimeters and five
perimeters in the ADM valley, the other perimeters may also benefit from this
program. In order to ensure that animal draft equipment is properly main-
tained, 30 blacksmiths would be given technical and management training and
would receive the equipment they require on credit. They would be assisted by
two regional trainers. The implementation of this animal traction promotion
program would make it unnecessary for farmers to request custom land prepara-
tion by ONAHA's tractors.
3.15      Extension.  If the intensification program is to succeed, farmers
need adequate extension advice. The project would finance the cost of village
extension workers at a ratio of one extension worker to about 200 ha (800
farmers). After three years, the extension density would be decreased to one
extension worker to 600 ha (2,400 farmers), which should suffice for trans-
ferring to farmers the findings expected from the applied research programs
and for maintaining a high standard of seed multiplication.  The project would
also finance the cost of one director on each perimeter throughout the project
implementation period, in order to assist cooperatives in both managerial and
technical matters. After project completion, each cooperative would decide
whether or not to hire its own manager, either the former perimeter director
or someone else of the cooperative's choice.  Training and supervision of
extension staff would be the responsibility of regional offices of ONAHA,
assisted by an expatriate rice agronomist and his counterpart, both assigned
to headquarters (para 3.18).
4. Assistance to Cooperatives
3.16      The success of the project in the long run hinges on the participa-
tion of beneficiaries, and on their adequacely maintaining the assets put at
their disposal. Niger has already made encouraging headway in this direction.
For several seasons now, some irrigation cooperatives have incurred and paid
most direct operating costs themselves. They also routinely set aside funds
for pump renewal and major repairs. Further progress requires a clear defini-
tion of responsibilities and a strong training program in self-management.
Government has passed a new law recognizing the specific character of irriga-
tion cooperatives (para 1.18). To provide a favorable environment for coopera-
tive self-management, Government has taken the following actions:
(a)  clear up cooperative accounts, with the assistance of a consultant
financed by CCCE, in order to assess their net financial situation
vis-a-vis banks, suppliers of goods and services, and collection
agencies;
(b)  define the terms of ONAHA/cooperative contracts under which the
responsibility for scheme operation and maintenance would be trans-
ferred to cooperatives; at a minimum, beneficiaries would be
required to reconstruct the field drains and irrigation ditches and



- 20 -
bear the full cost of energy, maintenance of irrigation and drainage
network, and maintenance and renewal of pumping equipment; and
(c) submit to IDA a model of internal cooperative statutes defining
members' obligations, procedures for eviction and inheritance rights
on irrigated plots.
In addition, Government is requested, as a condition of effectiveness, to
prepare a plan for reconstructing cooperatives' debts including recommenda-
tions, if necessary, through a Government-appointed committee, for debt
rescheduling, cancellation, or expulsion of non-payers, and to achieve
progress satisfactory to IDA, in the implementation of such plan.  It is
expected that ONAHA/cooperative contracts and internal cooperative statutes
will be adopted by all irrigation cooperatives under ONAHA's supervision, thus
ensuring country-wide application of the major principles of institutional
rehabilitation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ONAHA would not
start rehabilitation works on a given perimeter until it has concluded a
contract with the cooperative concerned and this cooperative has adopted
internal statutes consistent with the model.
3.17      Assistance to cooperatives would aim at enabling them to:
(a) adequately maintain the assets put at their disposal;
(b) prepare and monitor their semi-annual budgets;
Cc)  understand and prepare their accounts and use them as a managevment
tool;
Cd) manage primary paddy marketing; and
'e) increase their ability and incentive to undertake collective and
productive investments.
Toward that end, a functional literacy and numeracy program would be imple-
mented with the assistance of the Literacy Directorate of the Ministry of
Education. The design of simple accounting procedures, initiated during
project preparation with CCCE financing, would be completed and tested before
project start-up. During project implementation, short-term consultants would
be provided to assist in the implementation and evaluation of the program.
Assistance to cooperative management would be provided by financing the cost
of cooperative directors throughout project implementation, as well as the
cost of seminars and training in management for cooperative accountants,
executive members of cooperatives and women. ONAHA, with its own specialized
staff assigned to headquarters and regional offices, would oversee coopera-
tives' management and see that their statutes are enforced. The project would
make credit available to cooperatives for purchasing collective equipment
(pumps for gardening, paddy dehullers, millet mill, etc.). It would help them
establish village woodlots on soils unsuitable for crops.  It would also
provide them with sufficient working capital to enable them to apply the
recommended intensification packages and to prefinance collective charges for
operating irrigation perimeters (e.g., energy, collective nursery).



- 21 -
5. Adaptive Research and Foundation Seeds Production
3.18      The project aims to establish a fruitful dialogue between INRAN and
ONAHA by  subcontracting  specific activities  to INRAN.  These  activities
include fertilizer trials on sites that are representative of the main ecolo-
gical conditions, and the introduction and screening of new rice varieties
intended for future extension activities. INRAN would also be entrusted with
the production of rice foundation seed to be multiplied by cooperatives
(para 3.12). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ONAHA and INRAN
would conclude an agreement satisfactory to IDA not later than December 31,
1985. An agronomist and his counterpart, posted at ONAHA headquarters, would
be the key liaison between INRAN and ONARA. They would assist ONARA regional
offices in testing the packages proposed by INRAN, plan the production of
foundation seed, and monitor the quality of cooperatives' and contract
farmers' seed multiplication.
6.  Strengthening of ONARA
3.19      To help ONAHA assume its role of lead executing agency, the project
includes financing for incremental staff, office equipment, vehicles and
operating  expenses  at  ONAHA's  headquarters  and  regional offices.   This
involves setting up a new unit for coordination, monitoring, evaluation,
financial planning, budgeting and budgetary control (para 5.06).  Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that ONAHA would set up this unit to be staffed
and fully operational no later than December 31, 1985, and that this unit
would be staffed throughout project implementation by personnel 'whose
qualifications and experience would be satisfactory to IDA. In addition, the
project would finance key posts in the Administrative and Financial
Directorate, i.e., an expatriate administrative and financial director and a
Nigerien chief accountant at ONAHA headquarters and three accountants at ONAHA
regional offices (para 4.14). The project would also finance the costs of
annual audits over the project implementation period, and a study of the use
of groundwater in the ADM valley to either supplement gravity irrigation or to
replace it once the reservoirs have silted up.
7. Strengthening of Societe Riz du Niger (RINI)
3.20      The strengthening of RINI was included as a project component to
enable this entity to process the incremental paddy production expected from
the project, and to improve its overall efficiency. This option was chosen
since existing private rice mills are too small to absorb considerable quan-
tities of paddy collected by cooperatives from their members as payments of
their debts (seasonal input and water charges). In order to run its mills
effectively and become financially viable, RINI would need financial and
managerial assistance. Financing requirements for this component, provided by
CCCE and KfW, would include additional storage capacity, weighing equipments,
technical assistance and an increase of RINI's permanent funds to enable it to
purchase 3,000 tons of paddy each season from its own resources. The project
would also finance a feasibility study of husk combustion as an alternative to
diesel engines for the operation of rice mills. In order to improve manage-
ment, Government is about to negotiate a management contract for RINI with
CFDT. As a condition of effectiveness, Government would cause RINI to sign a
management contract for RINI satisfactory to IDA with a qualified firm.



- 22 -
C. Status of Project Preparation
3.21      Engineering designs based on sound criteria and adapted to expected
project performance are available for all works to be constructed. Prepara-
tion of bidding documents was completed in May 1984. Bid evaluation has been
evaluated in order to minimize the risks of cost overruns. The construction
schedule can be found in Annex 3-3.
D. Project's Ecological Impact
3.22      The project would not have any adverse effect upon the ecology or
the health of the population. On the contrary, the regular canal cleaning
achieved by the project would increase the speed of the water flow, thereby
reducing the population of schistosome-bearing snails, which are the agent of
bilharzia. However, it is recognized that the project would not alleviate the
problem of water pollution in a few villages caused by fertilizer and pesti-
cide run-off into river meanders that have been cut off for use as pumping
reservoirs. No water supply component is included because this would have
been too expensive, difficult to implement and hard to justify on equity
grounds, since the villages concerned still have better access to good quality
drinking water in the main river flow than most areas in the country.
E. International Water Rights
3.23      Since works would be limited to the rehabilitation of existing
perimeters, the project would not cause the consumption of river water to
exceed the consumption capacity that was originally foreseen for these peri-
meters under optimal conditions. Water consumption would, however, be mar-
ginally increased over the current level because some areas are not under
cultivation at present due to the deterioration of irrigation works.  The
project would not have significant adverse effects on downstream riparians.
All Niger river riparians have signed the 1980 convention creating the Niger
Basin Authority, which is charged, inter alia, with harmonizing and
coordinating national development plans on the Niger river. The convention
requires member states to inform the authority of any works undertaken on the
river. At negotiations, the Government confirmed that they had complied with
this requirement.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs, net of taxes and import duties (which would be
waived) but including contingencies, are estimated at CFAF 11.6 billion,
equivalent to US$25.2 million, of which 57Z is foreign exchange.  Project
costs are summarized below.



- 23 -
Summary Project Costs a/
Total
% Foreign   Base
local  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign  Total        Excange  Costs
---- CFAF million -----        --  US$ Million ---
Rehabilitation Works
On Force Account             1,255   1,664   2,922            2.8     3.6      6.4          57      30
By Contractors                 381   1,047   1.428            0.8     2.3      3.1          73      15
Total Rehabilitation Works   1,639   2,711   4,350            3.6     5.9      9.5          62      44
Crop Intensification           627      452   1,079           1.4     1.0      2.3          42      11
Assistance to Cooperatives     980      524   1,503           2.1     1.1      3.3          35      15
Adaptive Research & Seed
Multiplication               112      174     286           0.2      0.4     0.6          61       3
Strensthening of ONAHA
Assistance to ONAHA            360      731   1,091           0.8     1.6      2.4          67      I1
Monitoring & Evaluation        127      205     333           0.3     0.4      0.7          62       3
Total Strengthening of ONAHA   487      936   1,423           1.1     2.0      3.1          66      15
Strengthening of RINI          370      229     599           0.8     0.5      1.3          38       6
Refinancing of PPF              47      499     546           0.1     1.1      1.2          91       6
Total Baseline Costs         4,262   5,524   9,786            9.3    12.0    21.3           56     100
Physical Contingencies         211      242     453           0.5     0.5      1.0         .53       5
Price Contingencies            538      800   1.337           1.2     1.7      2.9          60      14
Total Project Costs          5.010   6.566  11.576           31.0    14.2    25.2           57     118
a/ Due to rounding, totals may not su.
4.02       Unit  costs  are  based  on  price  quotations  as  of  December  1983,
adjusted to February 1985, the date of negotiations, using an adjustment
factor of 9.1Z on local cost, and 4.8Z on foreign cost. The total allowance
for physical contingencies amounts to 5% of base costs. Price contingencies.
which amount to 13% of total costs or 14Z of base costs including physical
contingencies, have been calculated at the following annual percentage rates:



- 24 -
Assumed Price Contingencies
(in Z)
1985         1986          1987         1988          1989
Foreign Costs         5.0           7.5          8.0           8.0          8.0
Local Costs            6.0          6.0          6.0           6.0           6.0
B. Proposed Financing Plan
4.03      In view of Government's tight financial situation, it is proposed
that its contribution be limited to (a) providing the Namarigoungou equipment
to be used for the rehabilitation works (valued at its depreciated replacement
value) and the cost of its overhaul; (b) salaries of incremental civil
servants; and (c) salaries and related costs of the agriculturalist working on
the Namarigoungou project during the interim period. Beneficiaries' financial
contribution would consist of down payments and credit repayment instalments.
Government and beneficiaries' contributions are estimated at US$2.7 million.
The Federal Republic of Germany through KfW would contribute DM 12 million, or
US$3.9 million as a grant. CCCE and IDA would share the remaining project
costs equally. The CCCE loan would be for a term of 30 years including ten
years grace, at an interest rate of 1.5% per annum during grace period and 2%
per annum thereafter. The financing plan is thus as follows:
Financing Plan
USS million                   (Z)
Government and beneficiaries                       2.7                      11
IDA                                               9.3                       37
CCCE                                              9.3                       37
F.R. of Germany (KfW)                              3.9                      15
Total                                       25.2                      100
4.04      The proposed financing plan is based on a combination of joint and
parallel arrangements as follows:
(a) IDA, CCCE and KfW will jointly finance US$8.3 million (49%, 27% and
24%, respectively), including:
(i)  the cost of civil works on force account, excluding expatriate
staff cost, new equipment and vehicles and overhaul costs of
the Namarigoungou equipment (US$3.4 million);
(ii)  agricultural equipment, except farm implements and threshers,
excluding beneficiaries' contribution (US$0.2 million);
(iii) cooperatives' revolving fund (US$0.9 million);
(iv) miscellaneous equipment (US$0.3 million); and



- 25 -
(v) local operating and training costs (US$3.5 million);
(b) A parallel arrangement is elaborated to cover the costs of the
pumping equipment, vehicles, electric power lines, the earthmoving
equipment, rehabilitation of the dams in the ADM valley, farm
implements, threshers and expatriate staff.
A summary of the proposed financing plan by type of expenditures is presented
on the following page.
C. On-Lending and Administration of Funds
4.05      The proceeds of the IDA credit (and of the CCCE and KfW financing)
would be passed on by Government in grant form to ONAHA except for the
proceeds for agricultural equipment on medium-term credit, which would be
on-lent to cooperatives. Assets created or upgraded by investments (rehabili-
tation works) would belong to Government, while ONAHA would act as a manager
for the assets.  Funds for applied research and the electrification of the
pumping stations would be passed on to other subcontracting Government
agencies (INRAN and NIGELEC) by ONARA also as grants. ONAHA would furnish the
appropriate Government services with all the means necessary (except civil
servant salaries) to carry out training activities and the establishment of
woodlots.  Funds for initial establishment of seasonal credit funds  for
cooperatives would be passed on to cooperatives by ONAHA as grants. After the
initial establishment of seasonal credit funds for cooperatives, individual
members' repayments against short-term credit for inputs would be paid into
the revolving fund administered thereafter by each cooperative. Farmers would
obtain medium-term credit in kind, i.e., receive equipment purchased by ONAHA.
Farmers' repayments against medium-term credit for farm implements and collec-
tive equipment would be paid to cooperatives which in turn pay back principals
to Government at an annual interest rate of 1% over a period of a maxinum of
eight years (para 5.08).



- 26 -
Detailed Financing Plan by Type of Expenditures
(US$ million)
Total    Govt.  Benef.   IDA   CCCE       KfW
1. Rehabilitation works
- force account                  7.3      0.7      -     3.0    2.4      1.2
- contractor work                3.9       -       -     1.3    1.9      0.7
11.2     0.7      -      4.3    4.3      1.9
2.  Crop intensification             3.0      0.1     1.3    0.4    1.1      0.1
3.  Applied research and             0.7      0.1      -     0.1    0.1      0.4
seed multiplication
4.  Assistance to cooperatives       3.9      0.4     0.1    1.5    1.2      0.7
5.  Assistance to ONAHA              2.8       -       -      1.3    1.3     0.2
6.  Monitoring and evaluation        0.9       -       -     0.7    0.1      0.1
7.  Assistance to RINI               1.5       -       -     -       1.0     0.5
8.  PPF and CCCE advance              1.2      -       -      1.0    0.2      -
Total                        25.2      1.3     1.4    9.3    9.3      3.9
Percentage                 (100.0)   (5.3)   (5.7) (37.0) (37.0)  (15.0)
D. Special Revolving Fund Account
4.06      In view of Government's limited capacity to prefinance expenditures
for rehabilitation works to be reimbursed under external financing, a revolv-
ing fund would be established immediately after credit effectiveness with all
cofinanciers' contributions for a total amount of CFAF 720 million (US$1.6
million). 1/   IDA would make an initial deposit of CFAF 353 million (US$0.8
million, 49% of the total) into an IDA Special Account. CCCE and KfW would
1/ This involves the costs in the first year excluding equipment, works and
services to be paid directly and local personnel salaries, adjusted to
delays in processing of reimbursement requests and payments. The major
items are costs of force account works (CFAF 287 million: average four
month requirements of the first year costs such as civil works, local
personnel and vehicle operating costs) and payment to cooperatives of
seven perimeters to be rehabilitated in the first year to establish
revolving funds for working capital (CFAF 267 million). These costs are
jointly financed by IDA, CCCE and KfW.



- 27 -
also make an initial deposit of their respective shares (27% and 24%) into
their respective Special Accounts.   Upon the completion of civil works by
force account and payment of cooperatives' revolving funds, the Special
Account deposit would be reduced to CFAF 70 million.  IDA would replenish its
part of the revolving fund upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that all
expenditures were eligible for financing; CCCE and KfW would do likewise.
E. Procurement and Use of Consultants
1. Procurement of Goods and Works
4.07      Cofinanciers  have  agreed   on  the  parallel  financing  of  major
packages:   the pumping equipment,  vehicles  and  farm  implements would  be
financed by CCCE; the electric power lines by KfW. The earth moving equip-
ment, threshers and rehabilitation of the dams in the ADM region will be
financed exclusively by IDA and will be procured under international competi-
tive bidding. These and other procurement arrangements are summarized in the
following table with amounts to be financed by IDA shown in parentheses.
4.08      The dispersed and sporadic nature of rehabilitation works on the
irrigation/drainage systems, roads and protection dykes, and the need to work
around cropping schedules, give an advantage to ONAHA in implementing these
works on force account. Most of the construction equipment needed as well as
the required skilled manpower are already available from the recently com-
pleted  Namarigoungou  project.   Additional  experience would be  gained  in
operating the maintenance equipment to be procured under the proposed project,
which would initially be used for construction and thereafter for maintenance
of  the  main  infrastructure.   Comparison  of  construction  costs  by  the
Namarigoungou force account fleet and proposed by local contractors shows
further that unit costs for earthworks done by contractors are higher than
those of works done on force account.  Works to be done on force account,
mainly comprising the physical rehabilitation of the perimeters (earthwork and
structures), would amount to US$7.3 million, including local and expatriate
staff costs.



- 28 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                    Total
Project
Items to Be Procured                  ICB          LCB        Other       N.A.         Cost
Earthworks, structures, buildings    1.2           0.43    a/ b3                       5.1
and forestry plantations           (1.2)        (0.1)       (1.6)         -         (2.9)
Pumping stations                                    -          1.6  b                  1.6
Electric power lines                                -          0.7  ct      _          0.7
Construction equipment/vehicles       1.2           -          1.3  b/    0.6          3.1
(1.2)                                            (1.2)
Agricultural equipment                0.6          0.4         1.9  b/      -          2.9
(0.3)       (0.1)                               (0.4)
Local staff, training, operating       -           0.5          -          4.0         4.5
costs and misc. equipment                       (0.2)                   (1.7)       (1.9)
Expatriate staff, consultants,         -            -          4.5 /        -          4.5
audits and studies                                          (1.4)                   (1.4)
Revolving funds for cooperatives       -            -           -          1.6         1.6
and RINI                                                                (0.5)       (0.5)
Project preparation facilities         -            -          1.2          -          1.2
(1.0)        _(1.0)
Total                            3.0          1.3        14.7        6.2         25.2
(2.7)       (0.4)        (4.0)      (2.2)       (9.3)
a/ Construction by force account.
b/ Parallel-financing by CCCE and procured through procedures acceptable to
them.
c/ Financing by KfW and procured through procedures acceptable to
them.
d/ Depreciated replacement value and reconditioning cost of the Namarigoungou
equipment.
et Expatriate staff, of which IDA finances Chief of Monitoring and Evalua-
tion, ONAEA (36 man-months) and Head of Financial Planning, Budgeting and
Budgetary Control Unit, ONAHA (36 man-months), CCCE finances Chief
Exigineer (21 man-months) and Works Supervisor (21 manm-onths), both for
force account works, Rice Processing expert, RINI (24 man-months) and
Administrative and Financial Director, ONARA (36 man-months), and KfW
finances Administrative and Financing Manager for force account works (24
man-months) and Agriculturalist/Rice Expert (36 man-months).
ft Including the preparation studies financed by CCCE.



- 29 -
2. Contract Review
4.09      All bidding packages for works and goods over US$100,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in a
coverage of about 90% of the total estimated value of works and goods
contracts other than force account works. The balance would be subject to
random ex-post review by IDA after contract award. Civil works done on force
account would be reviewed throuSh annual budget approval.
3. Consultants
4.10      Expatriate staff and short-term consultant costs amount to about
US$3.6 million, including contingencies, for 246 man-months of resident
expatriate staff and 39 man-months of short-term consultants.   Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference, qualifications and
experience of expatriate staff and censultants financed by IDA would be
acceptable to IDA. Particular emphasis will be given to the training of local
personnel for subsequent managerial and staff positions within ONAHA. The
draft terms of reference are shown in Annex 4-1.
F. Disbursement
4.11      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be against the categories of
expenditures and within the limits shown on the following page.
4.12      Withdrawal  applications  would  be  fully  documented,  except  for
categories (1)(b) and (3)below, for which statements of expenditures (SOE)
would suffice.  In the case of the SOE procedure, supporting documentation
would be kept by ONAHA for verification by the auditors financed under the
project, and for review by IDA supervision missions. Withdrawal applications
for civil works done on force account (Cat. (1)(b)) would be supported with a
statement of the work performed certified by the Chief Engineer (para 5.02)
with unit costs to be agreed annually with IDA. IDA will not accept a reim-
bursement application for less than an estimated US$20,000 equivalent.
4.13      The  disbursement  profile  deviates  from  the  Aggregate  African
Regional Profile for irrigation projects because of the initial disbursement
to the special account, the fact that physical rehabilitation will take place
only in the first two project years, and because of the favorable disbursement
experience in Namarigoungou, where the whole credit was disbursed in about
five years from Board presentation. Disbursement of the present project is
expected to be completed in six years. The schedule of disbursements is in
Annex 4-2.



- 30 -
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
% total
estimated cost
to be disbursed
Categories                                Amount        by IDA Credit
(US$ million)
(1)     Civil works:
(a) Rehabilitation of catchment
in the ADM                             1.1               100
(b) Other                                  1.3                49
(2)     Equipment:
(a) Construction                           1.1               100
(b) Agricultural (threshers)               0.3                90
(c) Agricultural (others)                  0.1                44
(3)     Salaries of ONABA's incremental
staff on contract (other than
in category (4)), training and
operating costs and office equipment       1.4                49
(4)     Services of consultants, experts
and specialists, and studies                1.4              100
(5)     Seasonal credit fund to cooperatives        0.2               49
(6)     Special account                             0.8               100
(7)     Refunding of project preparation
facility                                    1.0              100
(8)     Unallocated                                 0.6
Total                                 9.3
G. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
1. Accounts and Audits
4.14      ONAHA's accounts have been examined by independent auditors since
1980/81.  The most recent accounts for 1982/83 are audited but not certified
since the auditors cannot vouch for the accuracy of the accounts. The defi-
ciencies in ONARAts accounts are mainly due to a shortage of adequately
trained accounting staff at senior and intermediate levels, and a lack of
internal control over the application of procedures. In view of the general
weakness of ONAHA's financial management, the proposed project would set up a
new unit (para 3.19), whose functions include financial planning, budgeting
and budgetary control, to tighten internal control, and finance key posts in



- 31 -
the Administrative and Financial Dir. torate, namely, an expatriate adminis-
trative and financial director and a Nigerien chief accountant at ONAHA
headquarters and three accountants at ONARA regional offices.  In order to
ensure efforts to redress the current accounting practices, recruitment of an
administrative and financial director, ONAHA, chief accountant and three
regional accountants with qualifications satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition for credit effectiveness.   They would be responsible for imple-
menting recommendations made by the auditors to improve ONAHA's accounting
practices and putting order in ONAHA's accounts by September 30, 1986, the
date by which these accounts must be certifiable by independent auditors.
Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
4.15      ONAHA accounts would be audited annually during project implementa-
tion by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and financed by the project.
Audited financial statements and reports, of such scope and in such detail as
IDA may reasonably request, will be submitted to IDA within four months of the
end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls and on whether or not
IDA funds have been used for their intended purposes. The report will also
confirm that summary SOEs, submitted as justification for disbursement under
Categories (1)(b) and (3) (para 4.12), correctly reflect detailed records kept
by ONAHA. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations.
4.16      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ONAHA would establish
and maintain separate project-related accounts in accordance with sound and
accepted accounting principles and practices, and that ONAHA would complete
the design and installation of a cost-accounting system and start its
operations not later than December 31, 1985.
4.17      Assurances  were  also  obtained  at negotiations  that  cooperative
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acc ptable to IDA every
other year, starting from fiscal year 1985/86, and audit reports would be
submitted to IDA within four months of the end of each such two year period.
2. Reporting
4.18      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ONAHA would (a) submit
to IDA, within two months after the end of each semeste., bi-annual progress
reports in a format still to be agreed, and (b) submit to IDA a Project
Completion Report not later than six months after the Credit closing date.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation
5.01      The project would be implemented over a five year period, starting
in October 1985, with ONAHA as the lead agency. ONAHA's General Manager would
act as Project Manager, except for the RINI component, which would be managed
separately by RINI.  ONAHA's three Regional Offices (Tillabery, Niamey and
Tahoua) are responsible for day-to-day project activities and field level
coordination.   ONAHA would be  directly  responsible  for  implementing  the
physical rehabilitation of the irrigated perimeters and for carrying out crop
development activities (extension, crop intensification, monitoring and



- 32 -
evaluation).  Adaptive research and the production of foundation seeds would
be subcontracted to INRAN. For cooperative training, ONAHA's Regional Offices
would coordinate and supervise the implementation of training activities by
regional teams composed of representatives of the Literacy Service of the
Ministry of Education, the "Animation" Service of the Ministry of Planning and
ONAHA. The Forestry Service of the Ministry of Hydrology and Environment
would, under ONAHA's supervision, establish village woodlots on soils un-
suitable for crops.
5.02      The physical works would be implemented over a two year period.  The
autonomous force account unit exists with the core local staff and would be
responsible for the construction of works on force account, as well as for
supervision of the contracted works. The force account unit would be headed
by an expatriate Chief Engineer to be recruited, who would be responsible to
ONAHA's Director General; he would in turn be assisted by two other
expatriates, i.e., a works supervisor and an administrative and financial
manager for force account, and local staff.  Since local staff developed
considerable skills under the Namarigoungou project, the input of expatriate
staff has been reduced considerably from its level in this previous project.
At the end of the construction period, most of the local staff engaged in
construction activities would be transferred to the regional maintenance
brigades that are to be established under the proposed project.
5.03      In the interim period between the closure of the Namarigoungou
project and the start of the proposed project, a nucleus staff would be
retained at the Namarigoungou project headquarters at Tillabery and financed
from the revolving fund established by Goverment for the implementation of
the Namarigoungou project. This staff would be responsible for the recondi-
tioning of that portion of the heavy equipment procured under the
Namarigoungou project that would be redeployed under the proposed project.
5.04      Civil works related to buildings and pumping stations would be
awarded to the private sector. The electrification of the pumping stations
would be subcontracted to NIGELEC.  Civil works related to irrigation and
drainage systems, dykes and access roads would be executed on force account by
OKAHA. Farmers would participate in the rehabilitation works by reconstruct-
ing field drains and reshaping field irrigation channels on a no-cost basis.
5.05      Once the rehabilitation works are completed,  responsibility for
scheme operation would be transferred to farmers. Maintenance of field drains
and irrigation channels would be the responsibility of the beneficiaries.
Farmers would have the option of having the main perimeter infrastructure
maintained by ONAHA at a fixed rate and at real costs, or hiring a private
contractor, with ONAHA supplying technical assistance. Pump maintenance would
be contracted out to the private sector. Maintenance contracts would bind
each cooperative and the pump supplier representative, and would be monitored
by ONARA (para 3.08).
B. Financial Management
5.06      In addition to normal financial accounting, ONAHA has started to
develop a cost-accounting system.  This system needs to be adapted to the
Project's transactions and tied in with the basic accounting data of each
regional office.  Adequate procedures will be established between ONARA's



- 33 -
regional offices and the cooperatives to take into account their respective
financial responsibilities for operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated
perimeters.  Cost data will be analyzed and synthesized by staff for financial
planning, budgeting and budgetary control in the new unit to be created
(para 3.19) which will report directly to ONAHA's General Manager. In addi-
tion to processing cost data for decision making, it will support ONARA in the
areas of long-range planning, budgeting, budgetary control (including control
of cooperatives' cost recovery performance) and internal audit.
5.07      A financial and administrative manager (expatriate), a chief accoun-
tant and three regional accountants, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA, will be recruited by ONAHA in 1985 with CCCE financing,
before project start-up. Their costs during the project implementation period
would be borne by the project. The financial and administrative manager and
the chief accountant will have primary responsibility for:
(a)  the financial and cost-accounting system;
(b)  the treasury function, i.e., payments, banking operations, debt
management, monitoring of Government budget allocations, inventories
and the preparation of the annual financial statements; and
(c) procurement and administrative affairs.
They will also participate in budget preparation. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that ONAHA would continue to employ a financial and adminis-
trative manager and a chief accountant with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA.
C. Credit Management and Marketing
5.08      The project will finance two types of credit. Credit would not be
channelled through CNCA which, because of past questionable lending practices,
is facing increasing recovery problems. Being practically bankrupt, it has
now ceased all lending operations. Hence, until a long-term solution for
agricultural credit is worked out, credit under the project would be handled
in the following way. First, seasonal credit would be provided by cooperatives
to their members out of their seasonal credit funds (a total of US$0.9
million), to be established at each cooperative by the project as a grant.
With this fund, cooperatives purchase seasonal inputs for the use of members
and prefinance collective charges for irrigation operations (para 3.17).
Cooperatives would have the option of purchasing seasonal input directly from
the private sector, or of ordering them from the Input Su-.ply Center (CA).
Seasonal credit extended to individual members by cooperatives would bear
annual interest of not less than 12% for the provision of expected inflation
and bad debts.  Assurances  on the above were obtained at negotiations.
Secondly, medium-term credit would be provided for farm implements (US$1.9
million), blacksmith equipment (US$34,000), threshers (US$0.6 million), and
collective equipment (US$0.35 million). Medium-term credit would be managed
by cooperatives with technical assistance provided by ONAHA. Their members
would put a minimum 10% down-payment and repay the rest at an annual interest
rate of 12X to cooperatives over a period of a maximum of five years. As
noted in para 4.05 cooperatives would in turn repay to Government at an annual
interest rate of 1.0% over a period of a maximum of eight years. Assurances



- 34 -
on the above were obtained at negotiations. Since further details on terms
and conditions for credit remain to be laid out, Government is re; uested, as a
condition of disbursement for agricultural equipment and seasonal credit fund
(categories (2)(b), (2)(c) and (5)), to make contractual arrangements with
cooperatives satisfactory to IDA for seasonal and medium-term credit.
5.09      In order to avoid a high rate of delinquent payments, cooperatives
have elected to require their members to market, through their cooperative, a
quantity of paddy at least equivalent in value to their debts due to those
cooperatives. This arrangement is acceptable to IDA. However, farmers should
be allowed to take advantage of the higher prices which may exist on the
private market.  Therefore,  assurances were obtained at negotiations that
(a) farmers would be given the option of selling, either to RINI through their
cooperatives or to the private sector, any surplus of marketable paddy above
what they owe to their cooperatives, and (b) Government would be committed to
the purchase, through RINI, of all the quantities offered to it by farmers, in
order to ensure that farmers obtain at least the official price set by Govern-
ment.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
6.01      Incremental irrigated rice production at full development  (PY5)
would be about 11,000 tons of paddy (including the perimeters of Namarigoungou
and Say; 8,000 tons if these are excluded). An increase in paddy production
would result from the expansion of cultivable areas by about 300 ha, the
increase in crop intensity, and from average yields per ha that would increase
from their present level of 2.45 tons/ha in wet seasons and 2.75 tons/ha in
dry seasons,  to 3.7 tons/ha and 4.0 tons/ha,  respectively.   These average
yields at full development are realistic and could be comfortably achieved,
since yields as high as 5 tons/ha/crop are already observed in the
Namarigoungou perimeters. The yield increases would be realized by:
(a) improved doses of fertilizer (150 kg of urea and 400 kg of compound
fertilizer 15-15-15 instead of the currently recommended practice of
200 kg of urea and 100 kg of compound fertilizer);
(b) strict adherence to the cropping calendar with the help of animal-
drawn equipment; and
(c) general improvement in rice cultivation.
6.02      The "without project" production level for 11 physically rehabili-
tated rice perimeters is assumed to remain at the level of PYO except for the



- 35 -
Kokomani perimeter.  1/   In the case of perimeters at Namarigoungou, for
which  support  activities  are provided,  but  not  physical  rehabilitation,
production would increase in relation to the "without project" situation.
Without such support activities as cooperative training, provision of animal-
drawn equipment, and applied research under the proposed project, the present
high average yield levels at Namarigoungou (3.7 tons/ha in wet seasons and
4.0 tons/ha in dry seasons) would not be sustained and would decline to 2.7
and 3.0 tons/ha, respectively, levels that are currently observed in other
neighboring perimeters. Average yields at the Say perimeter, which also will
not be physically rehabilitated, would increase "with p_oject" from the
present level due to improved fertilizer application and other support activi-
ties.
6.03      "With project" productions of seed cotton and sorghum reach tneir
peaks in PY4 (about 1,200 tons and 900 tons, respectively) while those of
onions peak in PY3 (2,850 tons). Incremental productions of seed cotton and
sorghum, however, would peak in PY15 (990 tons of seed cotton and 740 tons of
sorghum) due to the fact that the useful life of the perimeter at Ibohamane
would be prolonged by raising the dyke level of the reservoir dam, thus
maintaining irrigable lands at the present level until PY14. This is because
without the project, irrigable lands would start declining from PY4.  In
addition, it is assumed that two dams at Moulela and Kawara would not remain
operational beyond PY5 under the "without project" situation and that there
would  thus  be no production at  two perimeters after PY6.   Increase in
production of cotton and sorghum would result from a minor increase (15 ha) of
cultivable area and modest increases in average yields (150-200 kg/ha of
increase), resulting mainly from better water management.  2/   Incremental
production of onions is entirely from the Ibohamane perimeter, where dry
season cultivation would become possible through increased availability of
water during dry seasons. Evolution of areas, yields and production for rice,
cotton, sorghum and onions is detailed in Annex 6-1.
B. Markets
1. Rice
6.04      The national production of paddy is estimated to have been in the
range of 25-40,000 tons per year during 1977-82, with about 90% coming from
the Niamey Province. Total rice consumption was estimated at 70-80,000 tons
in 1981/82. National paddy production meets only some 40% of consumption
needs, the rest is met by official imports of rice (40,000 tons) and private
imports.
1/ Due to the breakdown of pumps, there is no production at the Kokomani
perimeter, whose conditions are otherwise reasonable.  In the "without
project" case, replacement of pumps would be made to restart production on
the existing cultivable areas and to maintain current yields.
2/ Agronomic packages including fertilizer formula and cultivation practices
would  remain  unchanged  except  for  application  of  more  efficient
insecticides on cotton.



- 36 -
6.05      Imports of rice and cereals are handled by the Grain Marketing Board
("Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger" - OPVN), together with a handful of
licensed private traders. Commercial imports of rice (other than food aid) by
OPVN have increased at an average annual rate of 25X from 15,700 tons in
1977/78 to 39,000 tons in 1981/82.  Given a population growth rate of 3.3% a
year and an even higher rate of urban population increase, the demand for rice
can be expected to keep rising. Incremental paddy production from the project
of about 11,000 tons (rice equivalent 7,000 tons) would therefore have a ready
market.  In 1983, however, rice imported to Niger, even with the natural
protection from imports provided by high inland transport costs, has been
cheaper than locally-produced rice. In mid-1983, OPVN, the sole buyer for
RINI's local rice, stopped buying from RINI while importing rice to exploit
higher profits, thus leaving RINI with mounting stocks. This situation was
alleviated when Government imposed an import duty on rice (12% on imported
price at the border) to protect local production from the unusual fluctuation
of world market prices, in addition to increasing import licenses for private
imports to 5,000 CFAF/ton. This compensatory levy on rice imports is subject
to regular review. Based on the Bank's commodity projections, it is estimated
that import parity prices of rice in Niamey will increase by about 14% in real
terms between 1983 and 1990 (para 6.09). The import tax would be, therefore,
a temporarv measure.
6.06      Out of the total paddy production of irrigated perimeters, about
25-30% is marketed by cooperatives to RINI. The rest is consumed on farms or
sold in local markets. Until recently, Government imposed compulsory paddy
sale by cooperatives to RINI at official producer prices. The compulsory
level was raised from 1.5 tons/ha/cropping season to 3.0 tons/ha/cropping
season in the 1981 wet season. If actually enforced, this measure would have
left nothing for consumption by farmers and was considered one of the major
reasons for farmers' dissatisfaction and disinterest in rice cultivation.
Under the project, however, it is proposed that individual farmers deliver to
cooperatives a quantity of paddy equivalent to their dues to cooperatives.
The typical crop budget indicates that this would amount to 1.3 tons/ha of
paddy, or 35% of total production (3.7 tons/ha). This seems reasonable and is
in line with what is currently marketed through cooperatives. Since farmers
would have other individual financial obligations at harvest time, the volume
marketed through official channels could be higher than the equivalent of the
charge due to cooperatives if official producer prices are competitive with
the private sector and if immediate cash payment to farmers is assured.
6.07      Based on a total irrigated rice production area of about 6,000 ha
(including areas outside of the rehabilitation project) and a minimum of one
ton of paddy/ha/season, 12,000 tons would be sold to RINI annually. Based on
the existing input/output price ratios, and assuming that RINI has liquidity
to finance its paddy purchase, the long-term break-even point for RINI is
estimated at 10,800 tons per year.
2. Cotton and Other Commodities
6.08      Niger's seed cotton production declined from the peak of 11,000 tons
reached in 1975/76 to an estimated 2,800 tons in 1983/84. The French Company
for Cotton Development ("Compagnie Francaise de Developpement des Textiles"' -
CFDT) markets and processes seed cotton at its own ginning factories for sale
to the local textile manufacturing company, SONITEXTIL. The total existing
ginning capacity is 14,000 tons of seed cotton (10,000 tons in Madaoua and



- 37 -
4,000 tons in Maradi). The factory in Mfadaoua is the only one in operation at
the moment, and is running significantly below capacity.  The SONITEXTIL
factory can treat 1,500 tons of fiber annually, equivalent to 3,700 tons of
seed cotton.  The peak incremental production of 990 tons of seed cotton
expected under the project could be easily ginned and marketed for local use.
Since 1980/81, Government has increased cotton producer prices twice in
successive years. Cotton production might increase to the point where Niger
could resume cotton exports. Sorghum is marketed by OPVN at official producer
prices through cooperatives or by local traders at market prices.  Onions
produced in Tahoua are marketed by private traders mainly for export to
neighboring countries such as Nigeria, Benin, Togo and Ivory Coast.
C. Prices
6.09      Official crop prices for the 1983/84 season are the same as for the
previous season; they were successively raised in 1981/82 and 1982/83
(para 1.08). Economic prices for paddy, rice and sorghum are calculated as
import parity prices. Although cotton is not exported at the moment, its
economic prices are calculated as an export parity derived from world market
prices, because the recently improved price incentive (from CFAF 62/kg in
1980/81 to CFAF 120/kg in 1982/83) may induce increases in cotton production
for export. Since market prices for paddy are not readily available, official
producer prices are used for financial analysis. Market prices for sorghum,
estimated to be in the range of CFAF 80-90/kg, vary from department to depart-
ment and from market to market. Market prices for onions also vary between
seasons and years, ranging from CFAF 30/kg to 120/kg or more, but an average
of CFAF 76/kg is used for economic analysis. Economic prices for paddy, rice,
sorghum and cotton are calculated using the Bank's commodity price projections
up to 1990 (details in Working Paper 7). A comparison of the official, market
and economic prices is shown in the following table.



- 38 -
Financial and Economic Prices
(CFAF/kg)
Official         Market       Economic Farmgate       Official
Producer Prices     Prices            Prices             Wholesale
1983/84        1983/84       1983        1990        1983/84
Main crops
Paddy               85             85             80   /     95   /       -
Rice                 -              -            154  a     176 -         ISO
Sorghum             70            80/90           96         86          110
Cotton            120/110 b/      120/110 -      176        159           -
Onion                -              76            76         76           -
By-products
Bran                 -             30             30         30           -
Straws               -              10            10         10           -
Cotton seed          -              30            30         30           -
a/  Import parity prices at wholesale in Niamey.
b/ CFAF 120/kg for the superior grade and CFAF 110/kg for the other.
6.10      Paddy marketed through cooperatives is put into 75 kg bags  (74 kg
of paddy and 1 kg for bag weight), then weighed, and each cooperative member
is paid for  70 kg  of paddy at the  current official producer price of
CFAF 85/kg.  Therefore, individual farmers are paid CFAF 80.4/kg for their
paddy and the remainder, CFAF 4.6/kg, is kept by cooperatives to cover for
losses in transit. Cooperatives then sell paddy to RINI at CFAF 88/kg. The
difference, CFAF 3/kg, is used by cooperatives to cover primary marketing
costs. The transport from cooperatives to RINI's rice mills was previously
the responsibility of cooperatives, with an additional CFAF 2/kg paid to them,
but the responsibility has rested with RINI since the 1983/84 wet season.
6.11       At present, urea and compound fertilizer 15-15-15 are procured
mainly from Nigeria.  Supplier prices plus distribution costs for urea and
compound fertilizer (CFAF 60/kg and CFAF 66/kg, respectively) are substan-
tially lower than import parity prices on international markets. Official
prices are even lower:   CFAF 50/kg for urea and CFAF 45/kg for compound
fertilizer in 1982/83, with subsidy elements of 17% and 322, respectively.
Since the Nigerian Government has reduced the fertilizer subsidy rate from 85%
to 50% in 1984 and to 40% in 1985, the future availability of cheap fertilizer
(subsidized by Nigeria) is uncertain; it would depend on fertilizer prices in
Nigeria, degrees of control on officially distributed fertilizers by
Nigerians, and market exchange rates between the CFA franc and the Nigerian
Naira.  Undez these extremely uncertain conditions,  the most pessimistic
scenario  is  assumed:   Niger  would  import  fertilizer  entirely  from



- 39 -
international markets.  1/   In that case, the fertilizer formula would have
to be altered from 150 kg of urea and 400 kg of compound fertilizer 15-15-15
to 200 kg of urea and 100 kg of DAP (dismmonium phosphate) which provide
almost the same nutrients and are more efficient in terms of transport costs
per nutrient. Estimated import parity prices for urea and DAP (CFAF 120/kg
and CFAF 140/kg, respectively) based on the Bank's commodity price projections
are used both for economic and financial analyses.
D. Cost Recovery
1. Subsidies
6.12      Government policy with regard to subsidies -was originally considered
as a means of transferring some of the uranium revenues to the rural sector.
In practice, however, it has led to a rationing of agricultural inputs and
equipment and to poor maintenance of pumping equipment and irrigation and
drainage infrastructure. This policy thus had effects on beneficiaries that
were the opposite of those intended.  Now that uranium revenues have severely
declined, there is little justification for any subsidy on farm implements. We
can still see a justification, however, for a subsidy on seasonal inputs in
the absence of any form of crop insurance, and to the extent that the
budgetary allocation for this would entail no rationing. At negotiations, the
Niger delegation confirmed that it is the Government stated objective to
gradually abolish all agricultural input subsidies (para 1.24) and that, in
fact, under a recent USAID agricultural sector grant, the Government is
already committed to reducing the average rate of subsidy on agricultural
equipment to 15% by end-1988. We agreed fox the purpose of this project to
accept Government's present efforts and that this question will be reviewed
during preparation of the structural  adjustment credit.   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that cooperatives would bear the full costs of
operation and maintenance, including provisions for the renewal of pumping
equipment.
2. Cost Recovery in Irrigation
6.13      A main principle in costing irrigation is that all the maintenance
and operations costs for irrigation have to be borne by beneficiaries. The
pumps would be installed at first by the project, but their future replacement
would be the responsibility of cooperatives.   Beneficiaries would also be
required to bear the full costs of operation and maintenance, which include
costs related to cooperative collective nurseries, energy, pump and infra-
structure maintenance costs, salaries for a pump attendant and a cooperative
bookkeeper, replacement of pumps, and salary for a cooperative manager (from
PY6). The only cost not recovered from beneficiaries is related to various
1/        This represents the most pessimistic case because it is likely that
Niger could still get fertilizers from Nigeria at prices cheaper
than international prices because a demand for the hard currency CFA
franc would continue to be strong in Nigeria and the quantity of
fertilizer consumed in Niger is very small compared with the
Nigerian consumption.



- 40 -
technical advice provided by ONAHA staff. Combined with production costs paid
by individual farmers, such as fertilizers (valued at international prices),
pesticides and land preparation, the total monetary costs of production would
represent 38-40% of the gross production. This is within the range generally
accepted as the upper limit of the monetary costs:output value ratio for such
a project. A sensitivity analysis further shows that this ratio would go up
to 49% when yields are reduced by 20Z to 3 tons/ha, to 42% with an increase of
electricity costs of 25X, and to 50% with a 20% decline in paddy prices. Cost
recovery data are detailed in Annex 6-2 and summarized below.
Coet Recovery Data
(CFAF/ha/crop)
Wet season          Dry season
Yield (kg/ha)                                        3,700                4,000
Gross value of production -/                       332,480              356,600
Collective costs
- cooperative nurseryb/                           11,130               11,130
- energy for pumpin§/-                            14,200               14,200
- pump maintenance -                               4,100                4,100
- pump attendant saJ7ry                            4,800                4,800
- renewal of pumps -b/                            10,300               10,300
- infrastructure maintenance -                    11,500               11,500
- manager and bookkeeper salary                    4,180                4,180
- other operating costs                            2,360                2,360
- collective financial charges                     2,180                2,180
Sub-total - collective costs                        64,750               64,750
Production costs at individual charges              70,550               70,850
Total monetary costs                               135,300              135,600
(paddy equivalent in kg)                          (1,680)              (1,690)
Monetary costs as X of gross value                      40                   38
Family labor                                        84,200               84,200
(217 days at 600 CFAF/day)
Revenue after family labor                         113,180              137,800
(paddy equivalent in kg)                          (1,410)              (1,700)
a/ Including straw (3,500 kg/ha) valued at CFAF 10/kg. Paddy is valued at
CFAF 80.4/kg, which farmers receive.
b/ From the Daikena perimeter, which bears costs higher than the average
perimeters with electric pumps.



- 41 -
E. Financial Implications for Beneficiaries
6.14      Income of farmers under the project is derived not only from irri-
gated plots, but also from rainfed farming, livestock, market gardening and
non-agricultural sources. Since information on activities outside of irri-
gated rice production is not readily available, farm family budgets have not
been prepared. Instead, the impact of the project on farmers' incremental
income from rice cultivation has been examined. This approach seems reason-
able, since the project will not affect agricultural activities outside of
irrigated parcels, because the development of animal traction is expected to
eliminate bottlenecks when work requirements for rainfed and rice cultivation
are in conflict. Benefits from this, however, reside mostly in rice produc-
tion, because if rainfed and rice farming are in competition, priority is
always given to the former. Moreover, the equipment would be purchased by
selected farmers (one set for 2 ha of irrigated land) and rented out to
others. Owners of equipment would improve rainfed farming with the help of
the equipment, but for the majority of farmers the impact of the project on
rainfed farming would be negligible. 1/
6.15      Detailed rice crop budgets are shown at Annex 6-3 and summarized
below:
1/ It is assumed that for half of the time, equipment would be devoted to
rainfed farming.  However, for economic  analysis,  the full cost of
animal-drawn equipment has been charged to the project, as no incremental
production is assumed from rainfed crops.



- 42 -
Income from Rice Production
(CFAF/ha/year) a/
Without project                           With project
Interim      First       Second           Full
year                      ea yea  /r if  development a -
Paddy yield (kg/ha) b(                 2,600            2,600.      2,990        3,300           3,850
Gross value of production C/         462,080          462,080     535,390      592,640         689,080
Production costs
- collective charges               102,780          103,190     124,496      129,504         129,504
- individual charges    d/          83,000          103,200     139,675      140,300         141,400
(of whicv fert. & pest.) -        (53,800)        (62,000)     (77,076)    (77,076)        (77,076)
Sub-total - production costs         185,780          206,390     264,171      269,804         270,904
Net income                            276,300         255,690     271,219      322,836         418,176
(% of net income/man-day
without project)                                      (93%)        (98%)      (-17%)           (151%)
Labor (no. of man-days)                  320             320          280          280             280
Net income/man-day                       863             799          969        1.153           1,493
Ct of net income/man-day
without project)                                      (93%)       (f12t)      (134%)           (173%)
a/  Total of wet and dry seasons.
b/  Averages of wet and dry season yields.
cl  Paddy valued at CFAF 80.4/kg. Includes value of by-products, straw, valued
at CFAF 10/kg.
d-  Without project:   200 kg of urea and 50 kg of DAP  at CFAF 120/kg and
CFAF 140/kg with subsidy per ha of CFAF 4,100 and no pesticides.  With
project:  200 kg of urea and 100 kg of DAP at CFAF 120/kg and CFAF 140/kg
without subsidy.
e/  Twenty man-days' saving per season from use of a pedal thresher.
f/  Before physical rehabilitation and improvements in rice cultivation but
with no subsidy on inputs.
After physical rehabilitation.
6.16       In  view  of  the  uncertain  fertilizer  supply  from  Nigeria,  the
"without project" and "with project" scenarios both assume that fertilizers
would be imported from international markets and that the fertilizer formulae
would be changed to more efficient ones (urea and DAP) in terms of transport



- 43 -
costs per nutrient, but almost' equivalent in nutritive value to the formula
consisting of urea and compound fertilizer 15-15-15.   It is assumed that
subsidies on agricultural inputs and farm implements would be eliminated imme-
diately.  In reality, subsidies on fertilizers and farm implements would be
gradually reduced,  at a rate which  is not certain  (para 6.12).   In the
"twithout project" case, it is assumed that the total amount of subsidy per
hectare, based on the current fertilizer application and rate of subsidy,
would be maintained. In both cases, land preparation is assumed to be done by
animal traction on a rental basis, but the higher unit cost per hectare in the
"with project" case reflects elimination of subsidies on equipment.  Rental
costs of a pedal thresher are included in the "with project" case only and the
man-day input is accordingly reduced. The table shows that net incomes during
the interim period (before physical rehabilitation and before improvements in
rice cultivation but with no subsidy on inputs) would slightly decline. The
table also shows a jump in production costs, due to payment of operating and
maintenance costs at full, upgrading in pesticides and fertilizer applications
and elimination of subsidies on inputs, but paddy yields increase only
gradually. This would cause a reduction in net income in the first year after
the physical rehabilitation. This, however, is not considered as a threat to
the project for three reasons.  Firstly, subsidies on fertilizer and farm
implements would be eliminated gradually.  Secondly, assumptions on gradual
increases in yields are in fact conservative and a jump in yields from the
first year after physical rehabilitation is possible, if all the inputs and
crop calendar are respected as recommended. Thirdly, even if yields improve
only gradually, it is unlikely that farmers will abandon cultivation in the
face of a reduction in income in the interim and first years because:
(a) the reduction is not significant (CFAF 2,600 per farmer per season
in the interim year and CFAF 640 per farmer per season in the first
year after physical rehabilitation);
(b) the irrigated plot is not the only source of income; and
(c) irrigation has an important "drought-proofing" benefit.
At full development, the "with project" total production costs would increase
by 46%, while the gross value of production per year with the project would
increase by 49%. As a result, the "with project" net income per ha per year
would rise by 51% as compared to the "without project" situation, and the net
income per man-day by 73% (average of two crops).
6.17      In the case of the perimeters in the ADM valley, a modest increase
in yields of cotton and iorghum (150-200 kg/ha each) results primarily from
better water management, not so much from intensification of cultivation. 1/
Since labor requirement and production costs remain unchanged except for a
slight increase in maintenance costs for irrigation works (CFAF 2,850/ha),
1/ Insecticides on cotton would be changed to more efficient ones but costs
remain the same.



- 44 -
most of the incremental gross value of production (CFAF 20,500/ha) 1/ would
become farmers' incremental net income.
F. Financial Analysis of ONARA
1. Financial Situation
6.18      Upon its creation in 1979, ONANA received as Initial capital an
investment grant in kind (office buildings and secondhand equipment) valued at
CFAF 250.1 million, as well as a Treasury advance of CFAF 75 million.
Although ONAHA's by-laws provide a framework for financial autonomy, Govern-
ment has been constantly interfering in ONANA's operations to launch new
subsidized programs without adequate financing. As a result, ONARA has been
obliged to borrow funds from CNCA, and is unable to repay its accumulated debt
of CFAF 900 million. Given the gravity of the financial situation, i.e.,
negative cash flow, depleted working capital, high financial charges, inade-
quate cost recovery, and a critical shortage of permanent funds, ONAHA's
finances were thoroughly reviewed with Government and cofinanciers during the
appraisal mission. Detailed financial statements showing ONARHA's past perfor-
mance (1980-84) are given in Annex 6-4.
2. Financial Remedies
6.19      The success of the proposed project depends on putting ONAHA on
sound financial footing and finding ways and means to prevent a repetition of
the present dismal situation. Towards that end:
(a) Government would make satisfactory arrangements for the assumption
or settlement of ONAHA's accumulated debts to CNCA, as a condition
of effectiveness;
(b) Government would pay off ONAHA's overdues to its suppliers (CFAF 200
million) as a condition of effectiveness;
(c) cofinanciers would provide ONAHA with Special Revolving Funds
Accounts in order to enable it to pay for goods and services for
which direct payment cannot be made (para 4.06);
(d) assurances were obtained at negotiations that ONAHA would not
undertake activities for which adequate financing is not secured and
would charge the full cost for services it renders; and
(e) assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would
adequately and timely finance ONAHA's overhead expenditures for
services performed on Government's behalf, and which are not covered
by external sources, by transferring to ONAHA its quarterly contri-
bution, at the beginning of that quarter. With the clearing-up of
ONAHA's financial situation and the enforcement of the new cost
1/  100 kg of cotton X CFAF 120/kg - CFAF 12,000.  100 kg of sorghum x
CFAF 85/kg - CFAF 8,500.



- 45 -
recovery policies, these costs would be drastically reduced from
their present level of about CFAF 450 million to CFAF 200 million in
1984 constant terms, a goal that is within Government's means.
G. Recurrent Costs and Impact on Government Finances
6.20      During project execution, Government's direct contribution would be
limited to the salaries of civil servants. After project completion, peri-
meter directors would be replaced by managers hired and paid by cooperatives.
However, Government would have to retain and finance the costs of a nucleus
extension network (one agent for 600 ha), the adaptive research program and
the operation of technical and support services at central and regional
levels. These incremental recurrent costs at project completion are estimated
at about CFAF 55 million at constant base prices (1984), in addition to
ONABA's non-incremental overhead costs, which are estimated at CFAF 200
million at constant base prices. The total requirement of CFAF 255 million
for Goverment financing of recurrent costs represents less than two thirds of
the ONAHA's present budgetary requirements.   ONAHA's cash flow, including
Government financing needs from its budget, is shown in Annex 6-5. Govern-
ment's annual revenues, to be derived from that part of beneficiaries' incre-
mental monetary income to be spent on taxable goods, are estimated at about
CFAF 65 million at constant base prices. Government project-related cash flow
(Annex 6-6). after taking into account elimination of subsidies on operating
and maintenance costs of irrigation (para 6.12), shows a deficit throughout
the life of the project except for a few years. To eliminate this shortfall,
a capital tax was envisaged, equivalent to 200 kg of paddy/ha/crop (or 50 kg
per average irrigated holding of 0.25 ha). which would represent less than 6Z
of output value. If such a tax were applied to the entire irrigated area, it
would provide enough funds for a positive cumulative project-related cash
flow. However, the premature introduction of a capital tax could discourage
farmers and endanger the cooperative development process sought by the
project. Since monetary costs of production are estimated to represent about
40% of gross value of production, a cautious approach is necessary. Conse-
quently, it is proposed that a capital tax be introduced only if and when the
projected yields are actually achieved. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that ONAHA would carry out a study by December 31, 1988 in order to
review the extent to which farmers shall be able to contribute towards the
capital cost of irrigation works and would transmit the recommendations to the
Government and to IDA for comments.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
1. Direct Benefits
7.01      The project would increase production of paddy in the Niger River
valley, and that of cotton, sorghum and onions in the ADM valley. Incremental
production of paddy would come primarily from 11 existing irrigated perimeters
once they are physically rehabilitated, thus regaining cultivable areas.
improved technical packages, including animal-drawn equipment and new ferti-
lizer formulae, would also be introduced. In the case of five perimeters in



- 46 -
the ADM valley, the project would increase the cultivable area or postpone the
drying up of perimeters caused by siltation of the dams, and increase the cul-
tivable area in the dry season. In addition to incremental production, direct
project benefits include savings on operation and maintenance costs of pumps
by substituting electric pumps for diesel ones. Furthermore, time saved by
introducing threshing machines on rice perimeters is valued at the estimated
opportunity cost of- labor of CFAF 600/day and is added to the project bene-
fits. Together with main crops, such by-products as rice straws and brans are
also taken into account in the direct project benefits.
2. Non-quantifiable Benefits
7.02      The project's institutional rehabilitation program would also have
substantial benefits. These are not readily measurable but would have spill-
over effects on the entire irrigation subsector in Niger. A reliable and
sustainable system of irrigation operations would be ensured by increased
self-management by cooperatives and by clarifying and enforcing responsibili-
ties of the parties involved (cooperatives and state agencies). This system,
once it is proven to be workable and sustainable, would be a model for all the
existing and future perimeters and would help rationalize the use of irriga-
tion investments. From the long-term sectoral point of view, the project's
indirect benefits through institutional reforms are far more important than
its direct, quantifiable benefits.
B. Economic Analysis
7.03      Rates of return are calculated according to the following major
assumptions:
(a) proje4t life of 20 years with no residual values;
(b) economic prices in 1983 constant terms, calculated using the Bank's
commodity price projections up to 1990 for rice, sorghum, cotton and
fertilizers, and the observed average market price for onions;
(c) standard conversion factor of 0.85 is applied to local components of
project costs and miscellaneous local costs;
(d) opportunity cost of labor of CFAF 600/man-day to value time saved by
using threshing machines at the rate of 80 man-days per machine per
year, and to cost labor contribution by beneficiaries for recon-
structing field drains and reshaping field irrigation channels;
(e)  the "without project" production level is assumed to remain at the
level of PYO, except for the Kokomani and Namarigoungou perimeters
and the ADM valley (para 6.02); and
(f) the "without project" costs are based on the maintenance of current
production levels, which requires replacement of existing pumps
(every five years for diesel pumps and every ten years for electric
pumps) and expenses for maintenance and operations.
7.04      Based on these assumptions and prices, economic costs and benefits
were calculated in five different ways, i.e., for: (a) 11 perimeters in the



- 47 -
Niger River valley to be physically rehabilitated, (b) 11 perimeters plus the
Namarigoungou and Say perimeters, (c) five perimeters in the ADM valley,
(d) five perimeters in the ADM valley excluding overhead costs, and (e) total.
The details are presented in Working Paper 7 and in Annex 7, and ERR results
can be summarized as follows:
Economic Rates of Return
CX)
Share in
EER            Economic Costs
Niger River Valley
Physically rehabilitated 11 perimeters               15                    68
Including Namarigoungou and Say                     20                    82
ADM Valley
Five perimeters                                      12                    18
Excluding overhead costs                             18                   (13)
Total                                                  18                   100
7.05      Sensitivity  analysis  was performed  on  the above  five  cases as
follows:
Sensitivity Analysis
. )
Switching value at 10%
% Change
Base  Cost  Benefits    Cost +20%
Case  +20%    -20%    Benefits -20%    Benefits    Costs
Niger River Valley
Phys. rehab. 11 perimeters   15    12      11          8            -25        33
Including Namarigoungou & Say   20   16    15         12            -39        64
ADM Valley
Five perimeters              12     9       8          6            -ll        12
Excluding overhead costs     18    15      14         11            -39        64
Total                         18    15       14         11            -36        56



- 48 -
Overali rates of return for the ADM perimeters as a whole are relatively low
when they include their share of overhead costs and some individual perimeters
are of marginal economic viability. Their inclusion, however, can be justi-
fied on the grounds that:
(a) EER excluding overhead costs would go up to about 18Z;
(b) these perimeters do not warrant a free-standing project itself;
(c) irrigation has an important drought proofing effect which is not
taken into account in the ERR; and
(d) better alternative investment opportunities are scarce in agricul-
ture.
C. Risks
7.06      Given the available detailed engineering studies and experiences
acquired by ONAHA under the Namarigoungou project, the physical execution of
rehabilitation works would not pose a problem. One major foreseeable risk is
related to maintenance and operations. The maintenance of pumping stations,
which is vital to the success of the project, would be assured by a pump
supplier. In order to keep maintenance costs to a minimum and at the same
time prevent poor maintenance, an annual review of maintenance contracts would
be introduced to check performance (para 3.08). Another serious risk would be
the cooperatives' failure to achieve self-management of perimeters, either
because of technical inability on the part of cooperatives, or through finan-
cial failure due to unpaid charges by cooperative members. To minimize the
former risk, the project would finance a variety of training programs, not
only for cooperatives, but also for those with advisory roles. The latter
risk would be reduced by establishing internal contracts specifying rights and
obligations in the case of non-payment of charges. In addition, the fact that
the project consists of independent perimeters is an advantage, since problems
in one perimeter would not necessarily affect the project as a whole.
7.07     Other possible risks are financial and managerial.  One risk would
be failure by Government to provide a sufficient budgetary allocation to
ONAHA. This risk cannot be entirely ruled out but the amount at stake is less
than ONAHA's present budgetary requirement and Government's project-related
cash flow will be favorable. The risk related to ONAHA's management capa-
bility would be minimized by financing a training program for its staff and
technical assistance, and by Government's strong commitment to this project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Govern ent on the
following principal points:
(a) ONAHA and NIGELEC would conclude an agreement satisfactory to
IDA for the implementation of the electrification of the
pumping stations not later than December 31, 1985 (para 3.07);



- 49 -
(b) farmers would be given preferential rates of electricity for
irrigation (para 3.07);
(c) ONAEA would ensure that arrangements satisfactory to IDA are
made to assist cooperatives to select qualified contractors for
the maintenance of pumps, and review annually the adequacy of
such maintenance by such contractors, and take actions to
remedy any maintenance deficiencies disclosed by the annual
review (para 3.08);
(d) ONAHA would not start rehabilitation works on a given perimeter
until it has concluded a contract, satisfactory to IDA, with
the cooperative concerned, and this cooperative has approved
internal statutes consistent with the model satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.16);
(e) ONAHA and INRAN would conclude an agreement satisfactory to IDA
for the implementation of the adaptive research and seed
multiplication programs not later than December 31, 1985
(para 3.18);
(f) ONAHA would set up a new unit for coordination, monitoring,
evaluation, financial planning, budgeting and budgetary control
to be staffed and fully operational not later than December 31,
1985, and would appoint staff with satisfactory qualifications
and experience to staff the unit (para 3.19);
(g)  the terms of reference, qualifications and experience of all
expatriate staff and consultants financed by IDA would be
acceptable to IDA (para 4.10);
Ch) ONAHA would put order in its accounts by September 30, 1986,
the date by which these accounts must be certifiable by inde-
pendent auditors (para 4.14);
(i) ONAHA accounts would be audited annually by independent audi-
tors acceptable to IDA; audited financial statements and
reports, of such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably
request, would be submitted to IDA within four months after the
end of each fiscal year; the auditor's report would include a
statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal
controls, and on whether or not IDA funds have been used for
their intended purposes; the report would also confirm that
statements of expenditures, submitted as justification for
disbursement under categories (l)(b) and (3), correctly reflect
detailed records kept by ONAHA (para 4.15);
(j) ONAHA will establish and maintain separate project-related
accounts in accordance with sound and accepted accounting
principles  and  practices,  and  complete  the  design  and
installation of a cost accounting system and start its
operations not later than December 31, 1985 (para 4.16);
(k) cooperatives' accounts would be audited by an independent
auditor every other year starting from fiscal year 1985/86 and



- so -
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within four months of
the end of each two year period (para 4.17);
(1)  ONAHA would submit to IDA bi-annual progress reports, under the
format to be agreed within two months after the end of each
semester, and would prepare a project completion report not
later  than  six  months  after  the  credit  closing  date
(para 4.18);
(m)  cooperatives would be required to charge an interest rate not
less than 12% on the seasonal credits they extend to their
members from the seasonal credit fund (para 5.08);
(n)  all medium-term  credits would be managed by  cooperatives.
Their members would put a minimum 10% downpayment and repay the
rest at an  annual  interest  rate  of  12%  to  cooperatives.
Cooperatives would in turn repay to Government at an annual
interest rate of 1.0% (para 5.08);
(o)  farmers would be given the option of selling to RINI or to the
private sector any surplus of marketable paddy above what they
owe to their cooperatives (para 5.09);
(p)  Government, through its relevant agency, would be required to
buy at the official price all quantities of paddy offered to it
by farmers (para 5.09);
(q)  cooperatives would bear the full costs of operation and main-
tenance,  including  provisions  for  the  renewal  of  pumping
equipment (para 6.12);
(r)  ONAHA would not undertake activities for which adequate financ-
ing is not secured and would charge the full cost for services
it renders (para 6.19);
(s)  Government would adequately and timely finance ONAHA's overhead
expenditures for services performed on Government's behalf, and
which are not covered by external sources, by transferring to
ONAHA its quarterly contribution, at the beginning of that
quarter (para 6.19); and
(t)  ONAHA would carry out a study by December 31, 1988, in order to
review the extent to which farmers shall be able to contribute
towards the capital cost of irrigation works and would transmit
the recommendations to the Government and to IDA for comments
(para 6.20).
8.02           Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be:
(a)  Government would prepare a plan for reconstructing coopera-
tives' debts including recommendations, if necessary, through a
Government-appointed   committee,   for   debt   rescheduling,
cancellation, or expulsion of non-payers, and would have
achieved progress satisfactory to IDA in the implementation of
such plan (para 3.16);



- 51 -
(b)  Government would cause RINI to sign- a management contract for
RINI satisfactory to IDA with a qualified firm (para 3.20);
(c)  ONAHA would employ a financial manager, a chief accountant and
three regional accountants with qualifications satisfactory to
IDA (paras 4.14 and 5.07);
(d)  Government would make satisfactory arrangements for the assump-
tion or settlement of ONARA's accumulated debts to CNCA
(para 6.19);
(e)  Government  would pay off ONARA's overdues  to its supplier
(para 6.19); and
(f)  the effectiveness of the CCCE loan and KfW grant.
8.03      A condition of disbursement for agricultural equipment on medium-
term credit and for the seasonal credit fund would be that Government makes
contractual arrangements with cooperatives satisfactory to IDA for seasonal
and medium-term credit (para 5.08).
8.04      With  the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA development credit equivalent to SDR
9.6 million (US$9.3 million) to the Republic of Niger.
WAPAC
May 1985



- 52 -
Annex 3-1
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF CULTIVABLE AREAS
(ha)
PYO                    Full development (PY3)
Wet            Dry             Wet             Dry
Season         Season          Season          Season
Daikena                          105   /         100   /         108            108
Kokomani                          43  -           43 -           43              43
Sona                             120             112            145             145
Lossa                            118             110             173            173
Kirkissoye                        94              86             100            100
Saadia                           105             103            105             105
Saga                             338             301            380             380
Libore                           204             170             245            245
N'dounga I                       214             176             258            258
N'dounga II                      216             176             272            272
Seiberi                          315             285            357             357
Namarigoungou                  1,350           1,350           1,350          1,350
Say                              300             300            300             300
Sub-total Niger valley       3,522          3,312           3,836           3,836
Moulela                           58              10              65              5  b/
Kawara                            50               0             50               0b
Guidan-Magagi                    120              46             120             33  -
Founfafi                          19               0              27              0
Ibohamane                        590               0            590              57
Sub-total ADM valley           837              56            852              9'
Total                          4 359           3.368          4 6 88          3931
Due to breakdown of the pumps, there is no irrigation at the
moment.
b/   Availability of irrigated lands will decrease as a result of
siltation in the reservoirs.
WAPAC
May 1985



- 53 -                      Annex 3-2
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
INPUT AND AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
PYO          PY1.       PY2       PY3        PY4       PY5
1984/85      1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
I. INPUTS
A. Rice
15-15-15 (400 kgJha):t                       690  a-    2,760      2,970     3,230      3,230     3,230
urea (150 kg/ha):t                         1,380  -      1,040     1,110     1,210      1,210     1,210
pesticides
-  furadan:t                                   0            6         I         15         15        15
-  thioral:'000 packages                       0           19         21        23         23        23
seeds (40 kg/ha):t                           270          270        300       320        320       320
alternative fert. formula -/
- urea (200 kg/ha):t                          -         1,380      1,480     1,620      1,620     1,620
- DAP (100 kg/ha):t                           -           690        740       810        810       810
B. Cotton
15-15-15 (200 kg/ha):t                        84           84         84        85         85        85
urea (50 kg/hb:t                              21            21        21         22        22         22
insecticides -
- mixture of cypermethrine 15 g               -             6          6         6          6         6
and Profenofos 150 (14 1/ha)
alternative fert. formula -E
- urea (100 kg/ha):t                          -            42         42        43         43        43
- DAP (50 kg/ha):t                            -            21         21        22         22        22
-  potassium chloride (50 kg/ba):t            -             21        21         22        22        22
C. Sorghum
15-15-15 (150 kglha):t                        63           63         63        64         64        64
urea (j0 kg/ha):t                             21            21        21         22        22         22
alternative fert. formula C/
- urea (100 kg/ha):t                          -            42         42        43         43        43
- TSP (50 kg/ha):t                            -            21         21        21         22        22
II. EeQMPMe/0
Animal traction units -                           O           400       400        400       400       400
Threshing machines                                0           300       300        300       300       300
Blacksmith equipment                              0            10        10         10         0          0
-a  The without-project dose is 100 kg/ha of 15-15-15.    -  Insecticide application would be changed from the
bI The without-project dose is 200 kg/ha of urea.              currently used formula (2 applications of 2.8 1/ha
-  Modified fertilizer formula if compound fertili-            of Peprothion and 5 applications of 2.6 1/ha of
zer (15-15-15) is not available cheaply from               Decis) to more active formula (7 applications of
Nigeria and Niger has to import fertilizers from           mixture of cypermethrine 15g and Profenofos 150
the international markets.                               / at 2 I/ha).
- Including a pair of oxen, a multi-purpose bar,
a plow, a cultivator and an oxen cart.
UAPAC
May 1985



- 54 -
Annex 3-3
NIGER
IRRIGAJION REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Conn Schedulb
.  9ll            195               1M16             1S9|7
1  2   3   4 -       2   3   4   1   2   3   4   4   2   3   4
kt-_R___C wdmnsfim      fec149                           196 X966 v                         4A
2. Sedln 0d Conts                                          h  _        _   _   _   _   _
& Puno                                           T   A        _D                 I
-  OD Mor,d Eu m                                    A -     _         _    =    __
_ *-   M1 OA Er ngT   A   _
4. EWCoC _ __=__M_
6. R  oh bond CdkTw  Dom                              A   _            6 _  -     a
cOaSICN Of FACEC ACONT_ _
7. Pw                                            T   A                mfElArw
8. ReoondI1tkxfgef Noncolgaungou Eiqutmnt- -              -
9. RdaUao o dmLA
- PsnslrwNordh d Nommy
- Pedmets. South Of MoM  and ADM Raglan    _
7 =7endr
A=Awaid
D = Ddlvue
I = kTopomertallon
Ucdd an -2
WAPAC
May 1985



- 55 -
Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 7
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.  Chief Engineer
1.  The expert will be Chief of the Force Account Unit for
Construction and, as such, should:
(a) co-ordinate the various construction activities;
(b)  review designs for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks and hydraulic structures;
'c) organize and superintend works done by force account;
vd) supervise the construction of pumping stations (which
will be done by contractor); and
(e) supervise the preparation of surveys, detailed estimates
of quantities for each type of work, basic production,
cost data, etc.
2.   The expert should have at least five years experience in the
study and execution of irrigation schemes, preferably in
Africa. He will have a degree in Rural Engineering/or Rural
Works/or Public Works, or in Hydraulic Engineering.
B.   The Chief of the Administrative and Accounting Services at the
Force Account Unit
1.   The expert will be responsible for all the financial and
administrative matters of the Project Unit for construction,
specifically to:
(a) set up accounting procedures for force account works,
particularly for maintenance works, to determine full
unit costs of such works;
(b) establish and maintain accounts related to force account
to be consolidated into project-related accounts;
(c) monitor unit costs for civil works done on force account
to be agreed annually with IDA; and
(d) handle all the personnel and administrative matters for
the Project Unit for construction.



- 56 -
Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 7
2.   The expert should have a degree in accounting, with at least
five years experience in the financial administration of
important development projects. He should likewise be well
versed in administrative questions (personnel management and
general administration) relative to such projects.
C.   Works Supervisor at the Force Account Unit
1.  Assisted by two locally recruited supervisors, the expert will
be responsible for the works to be implemented by force
account, as well as the supervision of works implemented by
contractor, i.e.:
(a) the construction/rehabilitation of earthworks (dikes,
irrigation and drainage canals, field roads);
(b) the execution of on-farm works (land clearing, land
levelling, construction of bunds, and digging irrigation
and drainage ditches);
(c) the construction/rehabilitation of concrete (or masonry)
works in the irrigation and drainage networks;
(d) execution of civil engineering works done by contractor
for the pumping stations, and the ADM barrages; and
(e) training of two locally recruited supervisors to enable
them to supervise maintenance brigades once the
rehabilitation work is over.
2.   The works supervisor should, in particular, be qualified in
the execution of irrigation works by force account, and should
be especially experienced in the use of heavy earthmoving
equipment and other heavy equipment. He should have at least
ten years experience in the execution of this type of works,
at least five years of which should be in the execution of
works by force account.
D.   Agriculturist/Rice Expert
1.   The expert will assist the Chief of the Agricultural
Development Division of ONAHA to ensure the good liaison
between Research and Extension. Specifically, he will:
(a) monitor activities subcontracted to INRAN such as
fertilizer trials, screening new rice varieties and
production of foundation seeds;



- 57 -
Annex 4-1
Page 3 of 7
(b) assist ONAEA's regional offices in testing and
introducing the new agronomic packages proposed by INRAN;
(c) monitor the quality of cooperatives' and contact farmers'
seed multiplication;
(d) assist ONAHA's regional oftices in training and
supervising extension staff; and
(e) train his deputy in technical matters.
2.   The expert should have at least five years experience in his
specialty, preferably in irrigation projects in Sahelian
Africa, and have a degree in agronomy.
E.   Head of Financial Planning, Budgeting and Budgetary Control Unit
1.   Budgetary Control Unit.  Under the direction of ONAHA's
Director General, the expert will have primary
responsibilities for:
Ca) preparing annual work programs of ONAHA, and with the
help of the Administrative and Financial Director,
corresponding ONAHA budgets;
(b) monitoring activities against budgets and objectives in
work programs and controlling budgets;
Cc) designing and installing a cost-accounting system;
Cd) analyzing and synthesizing cost data provided by the
Administrative and Financial Department for the use of
ONAHA management;
(e) long-term planning of ONAHA's activities, including
financial and personnel needs, cash flow projection and
organization; and
(f) training in technical and managerial matters of all staff
under his supervision, especially his deputy who would
take over his post after three years.
2.   The expert should have at least five years professional
experience, some of which preferably in the area of budgeting
and management, and a university degree (or its equivalent) or
membership in a recognized professional body evidencing formal
knowledge of modern accounting theory and practice in
accordance with generally accepted international standards.



- 58 -
Annex 4-1
Page 4 of 7
F.   Chief of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
1.  Under the direction of ONAHA's Director General, the expert
will have general responsibilities for providing ONAHA
management with data and information on all the irrigation
perimeters under supervision of ONAHA. Specifically, he would
be responsible for:
(a) designing and implementing a system of keeping production
records, which would include yields, areas planted,
quantities harvested, seasonal inputs used and use of
agricultural equipment;
Cb) monitoring management of irrigatior. by cooperatives,
parameters of which would include unit operating costs
(energy, salaries, repairs, etc.) for irrigation,
repayment record for water charges by members, respect of
crop calendars, marketing of output, sitw:tion of
accounts for renewals, etc.;
gc) designing and implementing a farming system survey which
covers total activities of farmers, including rainfed
farming, livestock, vegetable production and management
activities;
(d) centralizing and analyzing information from organizations
outside of ONAHA (INRAN and Directorate of Literacy) on
applied research and functional literacy programs;
(e) carrying out a study by end 1988 to determine if a
capital tax should be levied; and
(f) training and supervising the Nigerien deputy to enable
him to take over the unit from Project Year 4.
2.   The expert should have at least five years of professional
experience in project evaluation techniques, including
sampling techniques, data collection with rural people and
statistical analysis; experience with data processing and
analysis using computers is essential, and he should have a
university degree (or its equivalent) in agricultural
economics or a related discipline.
G.   Director of Administrative and Financial Department of ONAHA
1.  Under the direction of ONAHA General Manager, the expert would
have primary responsibilities for:
(a) setting up detailed accounts and an ONAHA account
consolidating three regional accounts;



- 59 -
Annex 4-1
Page 5 of 7
(b) establishing and maintaining separate project-related
accounts;
(c) designing and implementing sound internal and management
controls, particularly with regard to equipment
maintenance, inventory control and vehicle operating
costs;
(d) following up auditor's recommendations;
(e) preparing withdrawal applications from the IDA credit
account and maintaining disbursement records;
(f) processing of tender documents and supervision of all
procurement procedures;
(g) preparing annual financial statements;
(h) training in technical and managerial matters of all staff
under his supervision; and
(i) monitoring movements of personnel and handle all the
personnel matters.
2.   The qualifications and experience of the Administrative and
Financial Director would be:
(a) a university degree (or its equivalent) or membership in
a recognized professional lobby evidencing formal
knowledge of modern accounting theory and practice in
accordance with generally accepted international
standards;
(b) at least five years' professional experience, preferably
in a country using the OCAM or French accounting plans,
and some of which in a commercial enterprise, or a large
pCU4ic corporation; and
(c) experience with data processing on computers is
necessary.
H.   Rice Processing Expert
1.   Under the direction of RINI General Manager, the expert would
have primary responsibilities for:
(a) establishing a quality control system on paddy sold to
RINI and supervising implementation of the system;



- 60 -
Annex 4-1
Page 6 of 7
(b) improving efficiencies of existing facilities at RINI's
three rice mills;
(c) providing technical advice to improve overall operations
of RINI, including bagging and storage; and
(d) training in technical and managerial matters of Nigerien
staff under his supervision.
2.  The expert should have at-least five years of professional
experience at managerial levels in operations of rice
processing mills.
Draft Terms of Reference of Selected Short-Term Consultants
I.  Design Engineer (three months each for PY1 and PY2)
1.  The consultant will work under the Chief Engineer of the Force
Account Unit, specifically to:
(a) alter design, if necessary, of rehabilitation work; and
(b) help carry out a study concerning the availability of
irrigation water during the period of low river level on
the Daikena, Kokomani, Sona, Lossa and Saadia perimeters,
and recommend solutions.
J.  Drainage Consultant (three months)
1.  The consultant will work under the direction of the General
Nanager of ONARA. to monitor alkalinity and salinity problems
caused by drainage deficiency, particularly on the
Namarigoungou and Seiberi perimeters.
Detailed Curriculum Vitae
Detailed curriculum vitae will be provided for each of the
expatriates, which will give, among others, complete information
on:
(a) their degrees and professional qualifications;
(b) their experience in the areas required, with details
about the projects (or parts of projects) for which they
have been responsible;
(c) evaluations by the administrative authorities for whom
these projects were executed;



- 61 -
Annex 4-1
Page 7 of 7
(d) good knowledge of French language;
(e) etc...
Special Responsibility of the Expatriates Recruited to Train their
Nigerien Counterparts
The expatriates should devote a considerable portion of their
activities to training the Nigerien counterparts under their
jurisdiction. This very important aspect of the expatriates' role
should not be neglected. Experience in training will be an important
selection criterion.
WAPAC
May 1985



NIGER
IMRRIGATION REISXYTA TUION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEHENT PROPILE
IDA Fn and
Qarters Endi                      By Quarter                   Cmu lative
1986           1                       1.8                           1,8   */
III                      0.2                          2.0
IV                      0.2                          2.2
II 0.3                                               2,8                -T  r_
III                      0.4                          3.2                             -  - _
IV                     04                           3.6
1988            I                      0,5                          4.1                I           =               1 1                    -=
II                      0.5                          4.6                               F1
III                     O.S                          5.1                              I'mmm=t
IV                      0.5                                                                       I.6  _  _ _  _ =-                              _ 
1989            1                      0.4                           6.0 _
III                      0.3                          6.7                   j__             ____                      -      |
IV                      0.3                          7.0
1990            I                      0.3                           7.3
II                      0.3                          7.6 _
1II                      0.3                          7.9
IV                      0.2                          8.1
1991            1                      0.2                           8.3               70      _
II                      0.2                          8.5                     11t       ttlI           titI      t[tI, I i      I      f I 1  I    T I I
III                      0.2                          8.7                                                    it"         199 I,, _90
IV                      0.2                          8.9
1992            1                      0.2                           9.1                                                  ol at ro
II                      0, 2                         9o3.1  stesal zgI p.f II.
Assumes credit would be effective in October 1985.  Includes
refinancing of PPF (US$1,ooo 000), Initial deposits to special
accounts (US$800,000).  fie Aggregate African Regional Profile for
irrigation projects wa  so mewhat modified to take into account the
initial disbursement to the special account, the fact that physical
rehabilitation will take place in the first two years only and the
favorable disbursement experience in the N amrigoungou project.
WAUAC                                                                                                                                                                8
May 1985



-63 -                          Au3z6-1
uzm
ZVOLV  Or OAM, YID  D APRODUCT=:
ICE, COM=, SOwiN  AMfl CI
no    nL                m              n    FM    ns5
lW/S5   23/a86          196/8i7       1938    l9O/7   29"1"
I.   U
!ncing  _ d _Iuuug    & SaY
Mota' are  () 16,750                   6,750 b       7,1S0         7,700     7,700    7,700
*veag yid (kglhe)            3,200     3 350 -       3,01.0        3,330     3,600    3,330
Pnubctro  (t)               21,000    20,600        21,700        25,00    27,9       29,50
otal a   () (                6,750     6,750         6,750         6,750     6,7      6,750
erae ywId k/a)               3,200     3       -     2,920         2,86      2,790    2,700
Proction (t)                21,000    2o,400        20,000        19,300    28,0    28,3D0
Incrinal prodction  t)              0       200         1,700         6,5oo     9,200 11.200
Ew1udfng Nmriemu   & Sg
Totad are (a) -              3,4s0      3,450        3,350 h       4,400     4,.00    4,400
Avera  yeld (kg/ha)          2,600      2,400 i      2,520 -       3,090      3,50    3,3
Pratim  (d)                  9,oo0     8,s5          9,700        13,600    25,500   L6,800
without DxoJ-ot   a/
Woth   ar   ni '             3,450      3.450        31450         3,450      3450    3450
AV-rP yield (k/a)            2,600      2,600         2,600        2,600     2,600    2,600
Pwa_tio. (t)                 9,000a   9s,0           9,000         9,000     9,000    9,000
Inervdatal proactiom (t)            0     - S00           700         4,660     6,500    7,300
II. 013
Totda area (ha)                420       420           420           430       430      4330
Averg yIld (kg/h1)           2,370     2,570         2,570         2,700     2,780    2,780
Pro-- ctim it)               1,030     1,08(.        1,080         1,170     1,190    1,190
without projeCt
Tota area (ha)                 420       420           420           120       420       380
AV-qg yield (kg/ha)          2,570      2,570        2,570         2,570      2,570    2,570
Mdaction (t)                 1,080     1,080         1,030         1,030     1,050      930
Incro 1ital, prodetio                         0             o            90 gIO            220
M. S
Total area (ba)                420       420           420          4130       430      43
Averp yield (kg/ha)          1,101 1,80              1,.           1,910     2,010    2,010
Prodbctia (t)                  770       770           770           30        80o      88o
without project
Totad are  (be)                420       420           420           420       410       380
Aver, yield (kg/bh)          1,840     1,810         1,840         1,40       1,8U0    1,40
Produceio  ()                  770       770           770           770       755      7I0
Incrmcsl productin  te)             0         0             0            60       12in     20
o.    "
UWth proect
Totad are  (ha)                 56        56            47            95        74        57
Ave-e yld Ct/ha)                30        30            30            30        30        30
Pmductie (t)                 1,680     1,680         1,410         2,350     2,220    1,720
Without project
Totaldre  (ba)                  56        36            47            33        29        20
Awerag yield (kg/ha)            30        30            30            30        30        30
Poductie ()                  1,680     1,680         1,410         1,10        870      600
Zncau1tal productieo (c)            0         0             0         1,710     1,350    1,1.10
Total cultivated area of vet and dry seasona.
b/ Reflectillg lOX losses in production on areaa under the pbyslcal
rehabilitation.
WAPAC
may 1985



S861 Lug
DYJV
n An a iima am a
Wma mmuw Man dilIU waumimiw mum mu sJlWWmsemi enls 3mi
gn OMInow ir.,    - _mum NM
1*1I1UEmflUowUIm 311165 6
az3" w su u _sNU niu   C    ie  ii
3116123 mA l now 010d1*m S A met UILfA-Wlmfla U Al it a
nmws muo maIo 'awm lamw
gma a  'mun ami mm  ata unman mm smatso  Wa mad mu  EN am DIV c
315hZ    KISSWilt I  3linli N-IS96I5IIIIII551U Mdl ThL  (1
WfMKM~ - MM"9 MO  KMUOB 3V"  MS 
man eu  aIm w"enA111sse111 111 a 1 im   ulna imnsi mzi
3  mu 1111 tu111 91 Iliwflimegggag1ma _UUIL  iaIUU ai  t
mWca 1S urucan a
ci arnmwuanmra'us am aJoma a anA MDT 'ma MaU noDMG 
WU 31m1me11aA UK Mtes  StUN mid
go imi           011 U L A_ W MA11111 WSIA-I    A1 K -I MM
- n  urnes maam s mm    n  wn mma
am  9mm  -V  mu9 tVur  mu  Km 11111um imi                 EJa   m
ame  sWim NMa  uGam mm       IZa:mn t*a                  -811C 'a
weeam re t-   m      cue  Ero  nl* gmW  i,"   iso mam  MAmm11 I
S6  51  ml  Sit  mI  ml i         &   a             iM  110  1111MI *amaunor
an  em   no1  mU  arn  mi  lu   "a  mel               oBai is;
S5  mum: u a -min am  nh  MMw gng  amma urn-s  mmn a
nunz am   lU   m   :11 mm  mmizuas  Unit ltaU  m11Ima urn11
usls MN  NM   Omi  no  use  Omu   us1  mc    mm  alum40 aM unuuaO
-n  9551  4i  -   cnu  arn  emm   a  ni               omanmu  Aw
On   m   nI  cm   nu  cm  cm   mZ  m          m risgi jaim li1113um w
an  isa  an   at  a   an   a    an           urn am  ua
06M  Om   06  on   -   -   0    mm  oTam               aus am
-m  -1111 MIT NMI  -ol  am1  -ir  ml 0l               fl auiLS mi
Intll In  In  InII I=   OR  11   InK  OM         a uwusum V enuiu
KIZ  SW  Zia  UR1  UKs  lin  AM2  UIZ  inc     mima uisme misa3i
Mtt a    Mt  11111  Ut  191   Mt  191   Mt    I maca - a 11MIC31IJEISM
i lk .me  mu.  mm  ws  mat out  55*           U S     lcmw
lIE  =SU1K 6111W  NEll am1  MN0  mu1  mu11  NUW   inumnam
Omi  uo  awl Nui  mu   mu15  noa  us  us    -a=1s11AN
Nu    - - - --N   n   m   Om  -am mlaOM M
aUT am  =a  us   a    a   a    a   a           w     M1
ur   aU                          W a_ mas ua a    l   s  a.
mm ~  ~       ~       ~       ~        "     n mxu  * ii- am a    c    m   a
cutI wini gin  CnII  Ml?  CUT 9III cut1 will        Mu111rn1
us  usN  us   as a                 s   aw        umulil*
am   a a    rn   a    aI  un   a_s                   u
us   mit  .11  eI  ems  on  an  t1  mu               a amino
a    a   ama    a             a= am     a              Ci  1 S _s
mu   I;I mumi;  a    mulima fmm
nauic mm  usa s    m   u   must  wn  mca              mam Wm IMur
low  own  am  a a   am  a          a m   usc           -   n
a    a    a         a   a     a    a    a              mm1=1 g amm
mis s  mSO   a nu  s m               u anu    _ ist
ma  am   a2n mm         an ur   a   anE                US SU
DAn           a IMl  sm       anm    s
nal n nwn  nwn  nDll sKIJtsu
mini swi   aII
nsz~~~~~ 4j9 -En ez ezl a"ges



- 65 -
hAx 6-3
rrn
RmE CROP maDr
uInmT   PROT            HnH  Proo
El1 111  BE FU FIST   WE              SET    UK)    111  VW   S
Kr   NV   Kr   m    vi   at    NET   My  off   NV
MEK   KME  SUM  EKE SONM    EE ES                           E  mmMEaM K             -
emve or Fmana
PAS  Y1EU                                2450    275       2450      2753     V775     326      3160     3563    3716       -
YASE AT U.4CFAF1J                      1963   221100   196        21100   2110   253    2490   231460   29746    =60
oTm uc                                   2203    22n.      22nu0     ao-3 250366                         32 35321 11- 3 
VIAE N   ICFAF 1KM6    2200                               20        26       23D 300 03        3666   32500    35360    35603
TOTAL am   NEf                         2136  2Ul1   218910   243100  266 110  63    27                 31346      33     3511
101M COlSTS
COLECTIVE 0NW35
in lU                                   9s    4f9  5766   woe  Urn   1s11    ma   Jma   1U2   11m
ATla  miasin                           wow       a       40003    4a0       330      336      336      334      334De    3
RAIIAUE IF IIRAT           E               3        0        0         0    11500lisp  11506    1n  H301        11m      1156
. SOM     m  ERTEIEKA. C)                  ian      isB      16       iw 1s8i            Is      41K      4134      412      4as
3EPECrTIU lElhHNO t. 3)                  215      215      212       215      363      363      363      363      33       363
OTI   PEIATII  COSTS                       0        0                  0     2000       e 0    20       263      zw       20
FINIEILOIIRS                               0        3        0        0      2179     2179     2179    2179      217m     21m7
TMTAL                                  5139    51390   51          51555    62246    6224     64752   64152    64112    602
IIUTIIIL  a69
FERTILIR & PESnCIIES EV                26900   2W00    31000    31000    3033    315D         33    3353        35         a
LAW  PEATIn F)                         1200      12600    13000    IB060   IBM0    I3060       300    1006    16         IB0
TIEESUI  11C316E                           0        0        ° 0       a     macawo gme        g    s30 6        36       gm
T ET  PAIDDY  IFKi                      2453    2m        2450      275      2775     3260     3106    356       3        4001
FIMUCIAL CINMA                             O        0        0         0     2312     2312     2312    2312      2312    2312
TEArlL                                 41350    41650   51450    51750    6962       70650    6555    70350    705       701653
TOTAL MuImCu  cETs                      52740    934    103645   103345   131 73   135    1347m    135102   ISi   135602
U lT 1EW                               126240    5066    11s5s   i79155  16W=   154911   144531   171293   197178   220m
(RATIO MZ7TH/ITIUIT PROT )                                 0.92      .93     0.92      1.03     1.14     1.19     E5       1.47
1174A INPUT                               160      160       160      160      140      140      14       1         U 10    I1
IIET IOfEIU. KY1                          739      no       725       173    010       1107     1032    1274      1461     157
[RAIO MITHIMITHOUT   OET)                                           0.93     1.05      1.18     1.31     2.36     1.79     1.a
Al MIllET PROJECT: SFfHIFKSW           MIIT 0 COSTS FOR  fIES SEENS; NO ISTICIES;
FERTIUZER z2Oi IF lA AN  HE OF  W AT CFAF120    MD AT CFAFII/I6 RESPETVELY M   51111R PER
11     CFW410t FER 20eH. ITH PROJECT: CFWfU5/k94U/lMHA MIlK COSTS FEt  1PO    SENL CFfF6B0IK1;
FERTILIZER 20hlO IF M          IEA m 0 F  M HP F-  2HA AT CFIF1201   AN  CFFI40/KS RESPECTIlELY MITR  S1111.DS.
32 ITNIUT PROJECT IU3116  MIKIEAC  MST FOR PERIEIER .ITH PRECT D1IC E
EORET PAIMS KINEIDEEIU. SALE? FOR P1  AnTEITS, mu IEHECiATI0U  F PulL
C  SITUPRI PRJECT PA  FIRST m  SCO  BY    rnITH PROJEC  OLT EL   R COW. A WMIT , IITH PROJECT AT FULL
EVELGPNET FOR COP. rAIR   IFUIS ElISIEION AENT) m  ACCIUTAT.
021 MIlIE  PRJECT OILY FOR NOtLETTE.UIITN PROJECT FERUWOICCME AN   IILET1E.
El MITHOUT PROECT: 2e1 fIIEl mU A        ee OF DV AT CFtFI1/  Mu CFAFI'40M  WITN SUS13T PEt OR Ol OF CFAF4I0
mu0   FESTICIIS. IITHP FPRECT 20191 OF IEA mu 1SM1 FI   AT CFAFI2A1  AM CFAFI40/KU
MITIIEIT 911513.
F) LAI PEMARATIE IS WIIE it AINIlI-TRACTIOL N1HER COSTS MIIN  PROJECT REFECTS FIL COSTS OF E IU   NITT111ff 53513.
61 BME  PHSICKL IEN LITATII AN  BEFORE  11IH VE   IN RICE CULTIVRTII Dr U  SSAY N              I INTS.
WI WM. PNSICM.L REBIIAIITA7E0.
P.L) IT. IS SStD I11 BON CASES IVITHOUT  11 ITl PROWECT) THAT FERTILIZERS FRIill NIIIRIA AKE IT AVAIIALE MI         E,
THOEEFUIE N16E HAS m  I1PDRT FEE DITERITIEAL LIlETS. TIE IE  FERTILIZER FUMED lIVE ANRIIIATELY SAWE
TRMIENTS AS TIE OLD ONB  lISlE COe  FERTILIZER 115-15-15). RISIDY PER NA IS CIM TED TO K ElIL U
THE PRESENT AUSOLUE A_T PER NA; 1DE  (60-50)12602 0; 15-15-15 166-4  11001410; TOTAL 4100
WAPAC
May 1985



- 66 -
Abes 6-4
As of Saet p    ar  usc19 aou ihs se
1980    196        192         193        1984
-----wESel -------          Forecst
Operatin  revenme                  76.2   226.1        345.2         23.8         8.0
Opeting casts and Deprec.    no.5   606.9             807.8          595.8      437.0
Operatin  Incas (loss)           (243.3)  (380.8)    (462.6)        (374.8)    (253.0)
- Finacial dchrgs                0.0    20.2        90.9          9f.0       100.0
* Operating subsidiss          250.0   325.0        259.1         274.0       250.0
-noet Income (Cls)               5.7   (76.0)       294.4        (1U2.0)    (103.0)
WIIIDS SrATr IXM
1. S5art. of fUnds
Intenua cah Lw bi               51.4   (46.0)    (195.1)         (106.0)      (93.0)
basemet ret er                 250.1      -         168.4
lang-ern borrovinig di           -       74.1.       29.7
Capital rant £1     -           75-0      -         40.7            -
Total - S5orce                 376.5    30.1         15.7        (1.0)        (93.0)
GaIative                       376.5   406.6        422.3         318.3       225.3
2. blctn  of Nunde
C pitol expindinreW            524.2   125.7 f/   238.8 /
Vain  capital increase or
(decree)                    (147.7)  (110.3)    (252.8)        (133.7)    (122.7)
tedsptioa of loag-te  debt       -       14.7        29.7          29.7        29.7
Total - Appliceatis             376.5    30.1        15.7        (106.0)      (93.0)
Caulative vatting capital
increas or (decrae) hl    (167.7) (258.0)    (510.8)           (646.5)    (767.2)
LUN Q E  q
Currnt sets                       213.5   689.5    1,230.5         1,530.5    1,630.5
Les current liabilities I/       (361.2)  (947.5)  (1.741.3)      (2.175.0)  (2.397.7)
(167.7) (258.0)    (510.8)        (664.5)    (767.2)
aet fixed aets                    478.5   662.1 j/   4S&.1           206.1      216.1
Total asats                       330.8   186.1        (56.7)       (360.4)    (553.1)
Lang-ten debt kf                    -       59.4       59.4           29.7        -
Inmestnent grant 1/               250.1   162.3       218.1          148.4       96.5
Capital great 1/ -                 75.0    52.7        30.4            8.1        -
Retained earniiga (losses)          5.7   C 70.3)  ( 364.6)       ( 5166.6)  ( 649.6)
Penenent funds (or shortage)      330.8   134.1        (56.7)       (360.4)    (553.1)
a/  Unaudited, except 1981 accomts. the 1982 and 1983 accouncs will be audited during
calendar year 1980.
D/  Net incoe (loss) plus depreciation.
i   lade in kind by Covernat (office buildings and secoodand site equipent In 1980;
new tractors in 1982).
d/  Loan of CFAF 103.8 millin f-,om CEA at 10.-% during 3.5 year  to buy 10 trucks for
lonni I project.
e/  From Goverament.
ff  CFAF 74.1 million plus 52.6 aillion.
ji  CFAF 29.7 million plus 209.1 million.
h/  Financed by ClNA overdraft.
Li  Of which ClNC overdraft Is - follows (in CFAF million):   1980 - 139.2
1981 - 225.0
1982 - 558.6
1983 - 627.0
1984 - 750.0
jI  The trucks bought for the Koni I project are recorded in a pecial acCount:
"Irrigated perinetersprojsects and operations". CFAF 442.1 million - 382.3 (C0M
flied aasets) plus 59.8 (trucks).
kI  1981 - 74.1 - 14.7 - 59.4
1962 - 59.4 * 29.7 - 29.7 - 59.4
1983 - 59.4 - 29.7 - 29.7
1984 - 29.7 - 29.7 - 0.
In fact, no repayment has been made so far to OiUA (1984).
I   Amortized according to the OCAI accountIng sytem. For exmmple. the Invetsent Grant
in 1982 is as follos: 142.3 (frou 1981) - 92.6 (1982 amortization) * 168.4
(additional investment grant) - 218.1.
JAPA6C
liaV 1985



- 67 -
Annex 6-5
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECTED INCOME STATEENT OF ONARA
(ClAF million, current values until PY5,
constant thereafter)
1993     1994     1985      PY1     Pm2       P13      PY4      PY5  "6-20
IESTIITEID)                   IPRWECTED)
REVIEIU
STU7IEIE  SIEINEYS                                 29       40        17       la       19       20       21       23       24
LI PREPARATIO BY TRACTORS                           33        23       19       27       20       13        9        5        0
EIPNEII         VBEHICIES RENTAL                   204       104       61       65       69       73       77       92        87
INRASIRUCTIIE rAINTEINCE                                                                         123      136      145      145
PUtSIAITENIII N                                                7        9       17        9        0        0        0         0
0TIERS                                              30         7        4        4        5        5        5        5         6
TOTAL REVEIjES                                     305       lIB     t1O       131      122      239      2U       260      262
EIl
IWTERIAIL
SAOLIE AND LRICANT                                 59        30       32       28       24       62       60       59       70
ELECTRICITY                                         6        9        10       11       11       12       13       13       16
SPARE PUTS                                         45       31        2S       26       24       35       37       39       44
OTERS                                              15        7         7       10       10       10       10       10       20
TPANPOtT                                            17       25        20       21       22       24       25       27       29
SERVICES Anl  IAR1ES
TELEPIE                                             9        7         8      .8         9       10       10       11       13
RENT                                               11        10       10      ti        11       12       13       13       14
NAIIEN  ACENID REPAIR                              27       19       21        20       18       52       55       57       63
INSWAICES                                          12        7        5         5        6       10       11       11       12
OTHERS                                             19        1         1        0        0        0        0        0        0
PERSo
SALARIES 0N SAPPLMEJNTS AUXILIARY                 165      111       go        90       71      133      129      131      173
SAtMIS AND SUPPLEIENTS CIVIL SEVT                  47       20       113      120      127      135      143      151      160
SOCIAL SEWRITY & OTERCHRSS                         49       30       40        40       40       54       54       56       67
TAXES MD DUTIES                                      1        2         1        1        2        2        4        4        5
FINANCIAL CHAES                                    149      200       250        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL EXPESES                                      631      509       634      351      375      551      564      592      6
NET PROFIT (10l   FORE DEPRECIATION              -326     -328      -524     -250    -253      -312    -316      -322     -424
OVENNENT SUSIDY                                   274      200       200      212      225      238      252      268      342
LOCAL SARIES (OV IT) Al                                               103      109      116      123      130      138      146
BALANCE   FORE DEPRECIATIN                         -52     -129      -221       71      8        49       66       83       64
DEPRECIATION                                        65       30        20       20       20       64       64       64
BlALA1E AFTER DEPRECIATIN                         -117     -151      -241       51       68      -15        2       19        0
SOURCE:  A   AUDIT 1992183 AND WN   BIDETS 193184 AND 141/85
A) CIVIL SMRUITS SLRIES FORNERLY PAIED DIRECTLY BY FOCTIOS PtILIIES BUT CRE  TO  MM AFTER 1985.
WAPAC
may 1985



NICER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
GOVERNMENT PROJECT RELATED CASH FLOW
(CFAF million, current to PY7, constant thereafter)
PYO     PYI     PY2      PY3    PY4    PYS    PY6        PY7     PYs       PY9      PYIO    PY11-20  PY21-30  PY31t
A. Sources/Inflow
Total external sources                     602   3,710   3,228       644    486    448               -        -                  -         -        -        -
Agricultural credit repayments              -        25      82      141    199    259    237      179       121       63 
Indirect taxes on farmers a/                -        -        2       16     10     77      90      94        92       92        92       91        90      90
Total - Sources                            602   3,736   3,312       801    745    784    327      273       213      155        92        91       90      90
B. Applications/Outflow
Project net cost                           770   3,767   3,344      821    724    748       78      83        83       83        83       83        83      83
Debt service
IDA corlitment fee b/                   -       15       13       9       6      4       1                -        -         -        -         -       -
IDA principal + service charge b/       -        5        9      13      18     22      26      27        27       27        27       36       109     109
CCCE c/                                 -         5      26      47      52      5      60      60        60       60        60      245       245      -
Total - Applications                       770   3,792   3,392       890    800    830    165      170       170      170       170       364      437      192
C. Surplus/(Deficit)
Annual                                     (168)   (56)    (80)    (89)   (55)   (46)   162         103       43       (15)     (78)    (273)    (347)   (102)
Cumulative                                 (168)  (224)   (304)   (393)  (448)  (494)  (322)   (229)    (186)    (201)    (279)  (3,009)  (6,480)
a/   10% on 50% of value of paddy incremental production and 100% of cotton and onion Incremental production.
b/ Standard IDA ters.
S/ 30 year loan, 10 years grace on principal with 1.5% interest rate and 20 years repayment with 2.0% interest rate.
WAPAC
May 1985



- 69 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
KEY PARAMETERS USED IN ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Output Prices: (a)  Rice, cotton and sorghum, using Bank's commodity
price projection made on July 13, 1984 up to 1990.
(b) Rice - for 35% broken rice imported by Niger, a 15%
discount from the reference price (Thai 5Z broken)
is applied. Import parity price with Niamey
reference market.
(c) Cotton - 15% discount fror the reference price
(Mexican middling), export parity price.
(d) Sorghum - 15% premium to reflect preference for
local varieties. Import parity price with Niamey
reference market.
Input Prices: Assuming that Niger would import fertilizers from
international markets, using Bank's commodity price
projection made on July 13, 1984, up to 1990 for urea,
DAP, chloride phosphate, and TSP.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF): Used to convert local components of
project costs and miscellaneous local costs to border
price terms in lieu of item-specific border pricing:
0.85.
Labor:    Opportunity cost of farm labor at CFAF 600 per day, average of
actual peak and off-peak of unskilled labor.
Benefit Lag:   Production benefits accrue six months after on-farm
expenditures. Production benefit streams lagged
throughout by six months.
Replacement of Vehicles and Equipment: Vehicles and motorcycles: every
three years; electric pumps: every ten years; diesel
pumps: every five years; animal traction equipment:
every ten years; pedal threshers: every five years;
other equipment: every ten years.
Costs:    About 80% of project costs are included as costs for economic
analysis. The following costs are excluded:
(a) studies and audits;
(b) wood plantation;
(c) revolving fund for RINI;
(d) 50% of ONAHA vehicles and equipment and vehicle
operating costs;
(e) 50% of investment and technical assistance for RINI;
(f) oxen carts; and



- 70 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
(g) a part of animal traction units and pedal threshers
distributed to the EDF and other perimeters.
Labor Required to Reconstruct Field Drains by Farmers: Beneficiaries'
contribution in labor (30,000 days for 11 Niger valley
perimeters and 8,700 days for five ADM valley perimeters)
is included, valued at CFAF 600 per day.
Without Project Assumptions:
(a) Production level is assumed to remain at the level
of PYO, except for: (i) the Namarigoungou, where
average yields gradually decline from 3.7 tons/ha in
wet seasons and 4.0 tons/ha in wet seasons to 2.7
tons/ha and 3.0 tons/ha respectively in project
year 5; and (ii) Kokomani, where breakdown of pumps
prevents farmers from growing rice in the perimeter
whose conditions are otherwise good (without project
it is assumed that pumps are replaced and production
resumes with "without project" yields).
(b; Replacement of pumps and maintenance costs are
included in order to maintain the current level of
production.
WAPAC
May 1985



|          )         ~~M   A    LI,*r,   Bl_
,3.-  *  @  -  * *                                           300
/            M A     y oL _ p _ gAbQ Iu                              _ _ _ _    __          3 0 0           __loU   R
*,  /                                                                                                                         Kwo
S                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Abolo
Ayoi,i                    __________Ouollom________________________Ill;rl. Tho°                                    l
A
Gr0g5unTo p                                J                                                  Gv Tounlaf,   '
ra ~     _ comewr Mo                                       -- '                                                 o      bo        o ' 
Guidon -mago
\   rlrralrecfoutFi;   I            Dogondourch,     /
B UR K I No.i                                                                                     r J-D-  -__ _
s  /    Vs&s ,seibetl \  [         J                         N I G E R
-if                     lz          <      _                         /     IRRIGATION    REHABILITATION
sgy                                            ~~~~~~~~PROJECT
I          ~~~~~Stchemes Under the Prac
Al   Physicol  Rehobilatottjn
A  Complementary Investments
700                                                                §~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  cEme1 Net Under the ioj
N..                                                                                     A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ComPleted and in seirvice
A    Under construction
/                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Physical Rehabilitation
t                                                        I                A   N o t in     service
*1  I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' Proisected
Main Roaid&
|    8 r - '   t             ~    ~       ~     ~~~0 <  ,0                                                   -"C_      MzRivrsd
M ALE I I   N I G E R
M A t                   12                                           /\                                               \  _ .Iner,national Boundaries
i   Lr NIFi<v'  'rr   {tHAD                                                                                    30  0   lualtyats    mi Ise ,,sii l948-1977)
(HADf                                                                                                                      i
GERIA 4'                         (   B E N  I N             > 9            N     G  E R              tA  o 0 20 30 6o S5e.
M ARCHWl-I



