Documer, or
The World Bank
FOl OFMFCUIL USI ONLY
CR. 1619-lJii
Report N. :-3944-1-E
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 9.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 31, 1985
s
Thb domunt hs a resticted iributdon mud my be used by recipients edy In the performance of
their official duies. s cotent may not otherwise be dbswcoed without World Bank auhormiztion.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 460
CFAF 1 million = US$2,174
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                      British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (n2)      = 10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (n3)       = 35.30 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
I hectare (ha)           = 2.47 acres
I metric ton (m ton)     = 2,205 pounds (lbs.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADM       Ader-Doutchi-Maggia, an intermitteu<  tributary of the Sokoto
River in the Tahoua province of Niger
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central
Bank for West African Monetary-Union)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole  (National Agricultural
Development Bank)
GMV       Groupement Mutualiste Villageois (Village Mutual Group)
INRAN     Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques du Niger
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Federal Republic of Germany
Aid Agency)
NIGELEC   Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite (National Electricity
Authority)
OPVN      Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (Grain Marketing Board)
ONAHA     Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles (National
Irrigation Authority)
RINI      Socifte Riz du Niger (Rice Processing Parastatal)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



NIGER                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IRRIGATION RVIHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:              Republic of Niger
Beneficiaries:         National Irrigation Authority (ONABA) and the
Irrigation Cooperatives through ONAHA
Credit Amount:          SDR 9.6 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
On-lending Terms:      The Government of Niger would pass on the total credit
amount to ONAHA and cooperatives as a grant, except for
the medium-term credit which would be passed on to
cooperatives as a loan.
Project Description:   The main  objectives  of the proposed  Project  are to
promote   cooperatives'/farmers'    self-reliance    in
management of irrigation schemes in order to ensure the
sustainability of investments, reduce Government's
recurrent costs, increase production, and improve farm
incomes.  The project comprises the rehabilitation of
existing   irrigation  perimeters  and  includes  the
following components: (a) rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure and equipment; (b) crop intensification;
(c) assistance to cooperatives; (d) adaptive research
and seed multiplication; (e) strengthening of ONAHA;
and (f) strengthening of RINI.
Project Benefits:      The  Project's   main  benefits   would  derive   from:
(a) incremental production of paddy, cotton, sorghum
and onions on areas to be brought back into production
and increased yield and cropping intensities; and
(b) savings on operating and maintenance costs by
substituting electric pumps for diesel ones.  Lessons
learned under this project, in particular with regard
to cooperative management of irrigation schemes as well
as the role  of ONAHA,  would be applied to future
investments in this field.
Risks:    No significant technical risks are associated with the physical
rehabilitation works. The only major foreseeable risk is that the
irrigation schemes would be inadequately maintained. This risk has
been minimized under the project by introducing a pump maintenance
scheme by the private sector, by financing an important training
program for cooperatives, and by providing the necessary framework
(contracts between Government and cooperatives, internal regula-
tions, etc.) to establish a reliable system of maintenance and
operations. Other possible risks are related to financial risks of
irrigated agriculture and management capability of ONAHA, the lead
executing  agency.   The  former  appears  to be  small,  given the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Government's sound pricing policies for paddy in recent years, and
the latter would be minimized by financing a training program for
ONAHA's staff and technical assistance.
Project Cost Estimate (net of taxes):
Local      Foreipn       Total
---- US$ million            --
Rehabilitation Works                            3.6          5.9          9.5
Crop Intensification                            1.4          1.0          2.4
Assistance to Cooperatives                      2.1          1.1         3.2
Applied Research & Seed Multiplication          0.2          0.4         0.6
Strengthening of ONAHA                          1.1          2.0         3.1
Strengthening of RINI                           0.8          0.5         1.3
Project Preparation (PPF)                       0.1          1.1          1.2
Total Base Costs                          9.3         12.0         21.3
Contingencies: Physical                   0.5          0.5          1.0
Price                     1.2          1.7          2.9
Total Project Costs                      11.0         14.2         25.2
Financing Plan:
Government and Beneficiaries                    1.6          1.1         2.7
IDA                                            3.8          5.5          9.3
CCCE                                            3.8         5.5          9.3
KfW                                             1.8         2.1          3.9
Total                                    11.0         14.2         25.2
Estimated Disbursements:
1986      1987       1988      1989       1990      1991      1992
-------------------- USS million -------
Annual           Z.2       1.4        2.0        1.4        1.1      0.8       0.4
Cumulative       2.2       3.6        5.6        7.0       8.1       8.9       9.3
Economic Rate of Return:  18%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5161-NIR
Map: IBRD 18074R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPWTNT ASSOCIATION
REFORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER FOR
AN IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 9.6 million (US$9.3 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Niger to help
finance  a  proposed  Irrigation  Rehabilitation  Project.   Additional
external financing for the project would be provided by loans from
France (through the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, CCCE) in
the amount of US$9.3 million equivalent and by a grant from the Federal
Republic of Germany (through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, KfW),
in the amount of USW3.9 million equivalent. The CCCE loan would be for
a term of 30 years, including ten years grace, at an interest rate of
1.5% per annum during the grace period and 2% per annum thereafter.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Niger in August 1984 in connection
with an IMF Standby mission, and the main findings of the mission are
incorporatee  in  the  following  paragraphs.    These  findings  were
subsequently updated by a mission in October 1984. Annex I contains
updated country data.
Background
3.        With its 1.27 million km2 of land, Niger is about 2.5 times
the size of France.  Niger is a landlocked country, and its closest
access to the sea is about 600 km from Niger's southern border. Nearly
90% ot the total population is concentrated in a thin band along the
southern border. Only 12% of the land is considered arable, and only
2.5% is actually under cultivation.  Rainfall is limited (150-750 mm)
even in the agricultural zone and often irregular, and soil fertility is
low and declining due to its intensive use. The total population was
estimated at 5.9 million in 1982 and is growing at about 3.3% per annum.
Per captta income was estimated at US$260 in 1983.  Niger's social
indicators are among the lowest in the world. Life expectancy at birth,
which is only 43 years, is low even by African standards. The adult
literacy rate is only 8% and the primary enrollment ratio only 23%.
4.        Niger  belongs  to  the  West  African  Monetary  Union  which
provides its members with a common currency (the CFA Franc) fully
convertible into French Francs.   The full convertibility of the CFA
Franc and the liberal foreign trade policies pursued by the Monetary
Union members have kept the Nigerien economy very open in the past.
This openness was further strengthened by the very strong trade links
that have always existed between Niger and its neighbors, particularly
Nigeria. Another particularly important characteristic of the Monetary
Union is the strong discipline imposed over monetary and fiscal policies



- 2 -
of the met-ber countries, in return for the guaranteed convertibility of
the currency.
5.        Like other Sahelian economies, Niger's is dominated by sub-
sistence agricultural activities with millet and sorghum accounting for
80% of the cultivated area.  Livestock is also an important source of
income for a large segment of the population and is one of the country's
major export commodities.   Despite its meager agricultural resource
base, Niger has traditionally been self-sufficient in food production
except during the Sahelian drought in the early 1970s and again in
recent years.   The discovery of large uranium deposits in the late
sixties and their development propelled the mining sector into an
important position in Niger's economy.  The sector is now the country's
principal foreign exchange earner and an important source of Government
revenues.
Economic Development in the Seventies
6.        During the past decade Niger went from a period of despair to
a period  of  almost unlimited hope  for  the  future.   In  the early
seventies, Niger experienced severe drought:   its livestock herd was
decimated, and food production declined dramatically. Real per capita
CDP declined at an average annual rate of 0.5Z during the first half of
the decade. On the expenditure side, per capita consumption declined by
6Z per annum although gross domestic investment grew at a modest annual
rate of 3.2% with the help of increasing foreign aid. Uranium produc-
tion and export began in early 1971, but the impact of the sector on the
national economy was only moderate in the first half of the seventies as
prices were stable.
7.        During the second half of the decade, Niger's fortune improved
dramatically. More favorable climatic conditions allowed an accelerated
recovery of the agricultural sector. With intensive Government programs
the Nigerien livestock herd was rapidly reconstituted. Food production
steadily increased and by 1979 Niger was once again self-sufficient and
even managed to show a substantial surplus.  Moreover, the u.anium
sector experienced a boom. By 1977, uranium exports accounted for 53%
of total exports of goods and non-factor services, and that share
increased to 70Z at the end of the decade.   As uranium prices and
quantities exported increased rapidly, Niger's total export receipts
increased from CFAF 12 billion in 1975 to CFAF 85 billion in 1979. The
contribution of the sector to public revenues followed the same trer.d.
The share of uranium in total Government revenues increased steadily
from 18% in 1975 to an all time high of 46Z in 1979. Government uranium
revenues grew from CFAF 4 billion to CFAF 25 billion in the same period.
As a result of the good performance of agriculture and mining sectors,
real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7.2%; per capita consumption
grew at an annual rate of 4.5% and gross domestic investment at an
average rate of 16.7%.
8.        On balance, therefore. Niger's economic performance during the
1970s was very good, particularly by Sahelian standards.  This was due
to favorable world market prospects for uranium as well as sound
economic policies of the Government which encouraged a rational use of



foreign aid and export earnings, and which limited pricing and other
policy distortions that are common smong most West African countries.
The Early Eighties, the Uranium Crisis, and the Drought
9.        The decade of the eighties started with serious sigis pointing
to a long lasting crisis for the uranium sector. Between 1979 and 1982
real prices of uranium exports fell by more than 50Z. Uranium export
earnings stagnated at around CFAF 95 billion and uranium revenues
declined sharply from CFAF 25 billion in 1979 to CFAF 13 billion in
1982. During the same three years, agricultural production also
deteriorated.  Unfavorable climatic conditions forced Niger once again
to supplement its food production by increasing quantities of grain
imports. Food grain deficits in 1981 and 1982 reached about 100,000
tons per year.   During  1983/84,  the  country  experienced  a serious
drought which hit the livestock sector in particular.  As a result of
these developments, real GDP stagnated in 1981 and 1982 and declined by
nearly 3Z in 1983.
10.       Public finance.  Unfortunately the serious slowdown in econo-
mic activity was not followed by an equal slowdown in Niger's public
expenditures. The lack of clear signals from the uranium market experts
left the Nigerien authorities uncertain about the future of the sector.
Expecting a quick recovery of uranium prices, the Government continued
to implement its ambitious Five-Year Development Plan by increasingly
relying on foreign borrowing to finance the public investment expendi-
tures. It was not until 1982 that action was initiated to adjust to the
reduced export and revenue prospects.
11.       As the uranium boom came to an end in 1980, overall Government
revenues stagnated in 1981 and 1982 at a level of CFAF 75 billion and
even declined in 1983 to CFAF 72 billion. Meanwhile, overall Government
expenditures continued to grow rapidly, increasing from CFAF 124 billion
in 1979 to a level of CFAF 173 billion in 1982. This was not only the
result of the Government's aggressive investment strategy but also due
to the unsatisfactory financial performance of the parastatal sector
which had expanded rapidly during the late 1970s. Poor management and
frequently uneconomic Government policies and regulations led to large
operating losses in many public enterprises, adding an additional burden
to the Government budget. The overall Government deficit increased from
CFAF 65 billion in 1979 to CFAF 103 billion in 1982, requiring
progressively higher levels of borrowing which, in turn, created a
severe public debt burden.   Public debt service as a percentage  of
Government revenues increased from 2% in 1979 to 20% in 1982.
12.       Balance  of  payments  and debt.   The  heavy  investments  in
equipment and infrastructure associated with the opening of a second
uranium mine and the implementation of a large public investment program
resulted in increasing current account deficits for Niger's balance of
payments, in particular after the uranium exports started to stagnate
and agricultural imports increased during L9EO-82.  The financing of
this growing deficit forced the country to accumulate a heavy foreign
debt which reached CFAF 296 billion in 1983.



13.       Although official development assistance to Niger more than
doubled between 1977 and 1981, nearly 50% of its foreign debt was
contracted on commercial terms.  As a result, external debt service
payments increased dramatically from $9 million in 1977 to over $200
million in 1983, equivalent to 11% and 53% of the country's exports of
goods and services, respectively. This ratio was expected to continue
to increase rapidly during the next years unless debt relief was
obtained.
Niger's Reaction to the Crisis
14.       Faced with the rapid deterioration of the country's economic
and financial situation, Niger's Head of State instructed his Government
in 1982 to (a) introduce urgent austerity measures in the 1982/83 budget
and (b) prepare a consolidation program for 1983/84 and 1984/85 aimed at
restoring balance to the financial situation of the public sector.
Subsequently, in 1983, a number of changes in the Government's organiza-
tional structure were made which strengthened the Ministries of Plan and
Finance and gave the Prime Minister overall responsibility for the
economic and financial management of the country.
15.       A strict austerity program was implemented starting 1982/83.
Government wages and salaries were frozen, benefits to high school
students were discontinued and Government purchases of goods and
services were tightly controlled. Most importantly, public investment
expenditures were sharply reduced and a tighter control on foreign
borrowing was imposed. During 1983, the Nigerien Government prepared,
with the assistance of the World Bank, a two year consolidation program
for the period 1983-85 to help the domestic economy adjust further to
current financial constraints. This program was subsequently supported
by a first IMF Standby Arrangement of SDR 18 million and a CFF of SDR 12
million for 1983/B4. Recently, in November 1984, the Government nego-
tiated a second IMF Standby Arrangement of SDR 16 million to support the
continuation of its consolidation efforts during 1984/85. Both programs
are aimed at a progressive reduction in the overall Government budgetary
deficit and in the current account deficit of the country's balance of
payments, as well as laying the foundation for a recovery in economic
activity through selective supply oriented measures. To achieve these
objectives,  the Government  is committed to:   (a) implement a fiscal
reform program and improve tax collections; (b) limit the growth of
current expenditures; (c) initiate measures to stabilize the financial
situation of major public enterprises; (d) liberalize marketing and
pricing  policies;   (e) reduce  and  restructure  public   investment
expenditures; and (f) reschedule the external debt.
16.       During 1983/84, all measures envisaged under the stabilization
program were effectively implemented and, so far, all the performance
criteria under the IMF Standby Arrangements have been closely observed
despite the emergence of drought conditions and the closure of the
Nigerien border, both of which had an adverse impact on the economic and
financial situation. The budgetary deficit is estimated to have been
sharply reduced from 7.3% of GDP in 1982/83 to 4.7% in 1983/84, reflect-
ing mainly a nearly 50% cutback in investment expenditures combined with
a small increase in tax revenues as well as a containment of the growth
of current  expenditures to 8%.  Also,  a considerable  reduction was



achieved in the arrears of public enterprises.  On the external side,
the current account deficit was reduced from 9% of GDP in 1982 to 4% in
1983, and is estimated to have narrowed marginally to 3.9% in 1984.
External debt service payments, which were scheduled to be at a level of
40% of exports of goods and services in 1984, were reduced to 30% as a
result of th2 debt relief obtained from the Paris Club in November 1983
and from foreign banks in early 1984. Further debt relief for 1985 was
recently negotiated with the Paris Club in December 1984. Howev-:r, due
mainly to the adverse weather conditions prevailing in the Sahel region
during 1983/84, real GDP continued to fall by nearly 4% in 1984. Poor
agricultural harvests are estimated to have resulted in a record cereal
deficit of about 500,000 tons for the crop year 1984185.
17.       The Gavernment fully intends to continue its austerity program
in the coming years as indicated in the second Standby Arrangement which
it has just concluded with the IHF.  Hovever, continued austerity will
severely constrain Niger's development unless accompanied by further
policy  measures  that  will  allow  the  country  to  restore -- and
maintain -- a minimum acceptable level of growth momentum in the medium-
term future.  For this reason, the Government has requested the assis-
tance of the World Bank to formulate a program of structural adjustment
to be implemented in the coming years. This program of policy reform is
currently under preparation.
Structural Adjustment
18.       The resources needed for the development of Niger -- human and
financial, domestic and foreign, public and private -- are likely to
remain severely constrained during the remainder of this decade and
beyond. Major changes in domestic policies focused on increasing the
efficiency with which these scarce resources are used are, therefore,
critical if a significant turn-around in Niger's growth prospects is to
be achieved.  Broadly, this involves a reduction of dtstortions in the
structure of economic incentives in the country as well as improvement
in the allocation of public resources.
19.       The structure of prices in Niger is considerably less dis-
torted than in many of its neighboring countries because of the relative
openness  of  the  economy.   Prices  of  most  agricultural  inputs  and
outputs, for example, are broadly in line with world markets as are
energy prices. However, the overall incentives structure has favored a
rapid expansion of the public sector to the detriment of private
initiative.   A large number of parastatals have been established to
enable the Government to intervene directly in the domestic economy.
But the efficiency of the public enterprises has generally been low. In
agriculture, in particular, parastatal organizations have become both
highly costly and inefficient in providing input supply services and
marketing outlets to farmers and greater private sector involvement is
needed to enable the sector to fulfill its leading role in the country's
long-term development.  Similar problems exist in other key sectors of
the economy. A major reform of the parastatal sector, its policies and
its institutional framework, is thus an important component of the
structural adjustment program.



- 6 -
20.       Also, Niger's current industrial incentives system has con-
siderable shortcomings.   Industrial promotion policies, together with
the trade regime, have favored activities which are not necessarily in
line with the comparative advantage of the country and have resulted in
an inefficient use of capital and only limited employment opportunities.
Moreover, the allocation and administration of industrial incentives
have, de facto, discriminated against small and medium-scale industry
development and have given the Government excessive control over private
investment decisions.
21.       In general,  the Government will need to focus its scarce
financial resources and administrative capacity on only a limited and
selective set of production growth and poverty alleviation problems for
which market forces alone would be insufficient. Moreover, much more
efficient allocation of budgetary resources will need to be achieved
through improved planning/programming procedures to ensure that existing
development projects are more fully utilized and maintained, and that
new investments are only considered when they are of the highest
priority. Besides taxation, public resource mobilization must also be
improved through the introduction of new cost recovery mechanisms.
Finally, the Government will need to restructure its large accumulated
debt, which threatens to jeopardize the country's future economic and
social development.
22.       The Government  of Niger fully  recognizes  the need  for a
program of structural reform if the country is to have any hope of
maintaining a minimum  level of development  momentum.   However,  the
preparation of such a reform program will take considerable time.
Detailed studies are needed to formulate appropriate policy responses to
the country's structural problems and, subsequently, time will be
required by the Government to reflect on the proposed changes and arrive
at a consensus with respect to the timing of their implementation. An
Economic and Financial Management Improvement Project, which was
recently approved by the Executive Directors, constitutes a first step
in this process.   Besides the strengthening of the country's public
administration, the Project will assist the Government in defining a
medium-term   adjustment   program   to   complement   its   short-term
stabilization efforts.
Niger's Future Development Prospects
23.       Whereas structural adjustment is essential in Niger to permit
the economy to realize its productive potential, it is, in itself, not a
sufficient condition to achieve sustainable long-term growth.  A con-
certed development effort is required to reduce the country's severe
real resource constraints and expand the production base of the economy.
Primarily, this will involve further development of the agricultural
sector and, to a lesser extent, of the energy and mining sectors.  It
will also require the accelerated development of Niger's human resources
in combination with an active program to slow population growth.
24.       With  the fundamental change in its economic  outlook as a
result of the downturn of the uranium sector, Niger will, once again,
have to rely primarily on its limited agricultural resources for its
economic development in the medium term.  However, the future of its



agriculture is uncertain. Past increases in production were achieved
through more intensive use of better soils and greater use of marginal
lands.   Continuation  of these  practices would  severely  reduce  soil
fertility over time.  Food self-sufficiency in the eighties and beyond
can only be achieved through gradual improvements in yields on lands
that are already under cultivation and through an effective .*opulation
policy.  Given past low levels of investment in human resources, the
problems posed by recurrent droughts, and the limited state of the
existing agricultural technology suited to Niger's conditions, the
needed improvements will require a restructuring of the agricultural
sector and will be very difficult to achieve without major and
continuing support from the international community. Also, support for
better use of modern agricultural inputs, the development of small scale
irrigation schemes, and applied research will be crucial to the future
development of Niger's agriculture.
25.       Other  development  potential  might  ex.ist  in  (non-uranium)
mining and energy.   Limited geological  surveys and exploration have
produced mixed results.  An important coal deposit of apparently good
quality was identified in 1983, but the landlocked position of Niger and
the transportation cost for even the local market casts serious doubt
over the economic viability of the development of the coal deposit.
Similar comments apply to the recent discovery of small oil reserves,
the exploitation of which appears to be uneconomical at this stage.
More efforts and better planning of geological surveys and exploration
will be needed to have a better assessment of energy and mining
development potential.
26.       Efficient  use  of  these  potential  resources  will  require
further development of the education system.  Primary education will
need to be expanded as rapidly as feasible, and professional and voca-
tional training designed to meet the specific needs of the Nigerien
economy will need to be made available to develop human capital as a
productive resource and reduce the country's skilled manpower con-
straints.  However, the increasing scarcity of public revenues will
require original solutions to the financing of such human resources
development.  On the other hand, the current rate of population growth
of 3.3% per year means that the economy would have to devote an in-
creasing share of its resources just to maintain existing low levels of
income. Consequently, reduction of the population growth must accompany
the development program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
27.       Twenty-five IDA credits have so far been approved for Niger,
totaling US$233.4 million.   Annex II contains a summary statement of
these credits as of March 31, 1985.  Nine credits have been for the
rural sector (drought relief, rural development, forestry, irrigation
and livestock), and eight for roads, primarily aimed at upgrading the
main and feeder road networks. The eight other credits covered telecom-
munication, education, power and industrial development, and economic
and financial management support to the Government. The rural sector
received a total of US$91.6 million, of which US$47.4 million was for
rainfed agriculture, US$14.6 million for forestry, US$15 million for
irrigation, US$12 million for livestock and US$2.6 million for others.



- 8 -
28.       While Government's macroeconomic performance has been quite
satisfactory, its performance in project preparation and implementation
has been rather mixed.  This is particularly true for livestock and
agriculture where ongoing projects (Second Maradi, Dosso and First
Livestock projects) have encountered major difficulties due to a lack of
proven technical packages for rainfed farming, land allocation problems
in nomadic areas, as well as generally cumbersome administrative
procedures   and   local   funding   problems.    Admittedly,   project
implementation in these sectors has been seriously handicapped by the
recent  drought.   Except  for  highway  and  feeder  road  construction,
implementation of social infrastructure projects, i.e. education, has
also  been  slow.  Thus,  environmental,  institutional  and managerial
constraints explain why our lending program -- two projects a year
amounting to about US$20 million -- remained rather limited in recent
years and less than originally expected. This is, however, a situation
we hope will improve in the near future (see paras. 30-32).
29.       Moreover, due to the current slump in the world economy, the
countrv is having difficulty meeting counterpart financing requirements
which during the uranium boom were set at levels of 20-30% of total
project costs. In view of the determined steps which the Government is
taking to resolve its financial difficulties, IDA has, under its Special
Action Program, introduced increased cost sharing arrangements for new,
as well as ongoing projects and, where necessary, introduced revolving
funds  to  pre-finance  project  expenditures.   The  proposed  project
includes both features -- 89% external financing of project costs and a
revolving fund.  In addition, to assist Government in alleviating the
effects of the severe drought, the Bank has amended some of the projects
currently under implementation to finance the purchase of animals for
destocking, as well as seed and emergency food distribution.
30.       The Bank's operational strategy in Niger is two-fold:   to
assist the country in the formulation and implementation of appropriate
adjustment programs for the short- and medium-term future, and to help
address the country's long-term growth and development issues.  Faced
wLth the severe financial crisis in 1982, the Government of Niger has
increasingly turned to the Bank -- and to the IMF -- for technical and
financial assistance in the preparation of appropriate policy responses.
This has led to a rapid expansion of the Bank's dialogue with the
country on macro-economic and sectoral policy issues during the last two
years, both separately and in conjunction with project lending.   As
outlined  in  paragraph 22,  the  Economic  and  Financial  Management
Improvement Project approved in 1984 is specifically designed to assist
the Government  in analyzing  these  issues.   A structural adjustment
credit is planned for mid 1986 to support tie adjustment efforts that
the Government is now introducing.  Depending on the success of the
Government's efforts to define and implement a program of broad policy
reform, Bank Group lending would include in the future other forms of
non-project lending such as sectoral or structural adjustment type
operations.
31.       Lending  operations  will  also  support  Niger's  long-term
development by emphasizing productive investment and institutional



- 9 -
reform, particularly in the agricultural sector. Here, the severity of
natural constraints and the present state of technical knowledge make
development  slow  and  difficult.   However,  experience  with  ongoing
projects has demonstrated that potential may exist, and the Bank is
searching for ways both to stimulate production and to mitigate the
impact of recurrent droughts. Bank Group lending will support projects
to increase production through gradual development of irrigation
potential, provision of services to pastoralists, and crop-livestock
integration.   Future  lending in the  sector will continue  in  these
directions, while seeking especially to improve technical packages,
lower  irrigation  costs,  and  introduce  smaller-scale,  grassroots-
initiated development projects.
32.        Other sectors that will continue to be the focus of Bank
Group operations will be human resources (health and education), water
supply, energy and transportation. Thus, our future lending strategy
will consist of a mix of structural adjustment and project lending, a
combination which we hope will assist Government in overcoming its
present financial crisis and, in the long run, develop the country's
productive resources in an optimal fashion.   This should entail an
increase in our lending program for Niger in the coming years if the
Government is able to take the steps to prepare and implement Bank
operations  in a timely fashion.  The proposed project would be the
second operation during this fiscal year.   A Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 1511-NIR) was presented
earlier. Projects in the transport and health sectors are presently
being appraised and are expected to be presented to the Board in FY86.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND RURAL SECTOR
Sector Background
33.       Agriculture  remains  the  most  important  activity  and  the
principal livelihood of the population, accounting for a little less
than half of GDP and about a quarter of the country's exports. Never-
theless, the country is constrained by poor agricultural resources. Per
capita availability of arable land with at least 600 mm precipitation
and of irrigable land is only one third of the average for the Sahelian
countries. Rainfall is not only scanty but also irregular, making Niger
vulnerable  to droughts.   In the early seventies,  Niger  experienced
severe drought that reduced livestock herds and food production
dramatically.  Most recently, 1983/84 was poor and 1984/85 very poor:
it is estimated that cereal shortfalls in 1984/85 may amount to more
than 500,000 tons as compared with the estimated demand of about 1.3
million tons. The two consecutive years of poor rains in the pastoral
areas may have led to a serious long-term impact on the natural
pastures.   The contribution of the irrigation subsector to national
agricultural production is limited, with irrigated lands representing
less than 1% of the total cultivated area.
34.       Nigerien  agriculture  is  largely  subsistence-based.   The
principal crop is millet, supplying about 75Z of the total cereals
production, followed by sorghum, providing about 20Z. Rice is a distant
third, supplying 2% of the cereals production. The principal cash crops



- 10 -
are  groundnuts,  cowpeas  and  cotton.   The main export  commodity  in
agriculture is livestock (cattle on the hoof), followed by cowpeas. The
once important exports of groundnuts have remained at insignificant
levels since the 1973/74 drought. Cotton has been a minor cash crop end
its production does not meet the needs of the domestic textile industry.
35.       In rainfed agriculture, the Government strategy has been to
set up regional "productivity projects" in viable cultivation areas,
which aim to provide smallholders with improved extension, input supply,
credit  and  marketing.   The  results  so  far  obtained  from  the
"productivity projects" have been far below those originally expected,
mainly due to lack of appropriate technical packages for below average
rainfall situations. At a national seminar in November 1982 in Zinder
on the organization of agricultural development projects and related
policies, the constraints and difficulties in implementing current
large-scale area development projects were recognized. The Government's
stated policies following the Zinder seminar are to promote farmers'
participation and self-management, to promote grassroot level technical
packages through small-scale, village level tests and demonstrations,
and to upgrade extension teams so that they can respond to changing
local demands.  In controlled irrigation, Government has set a modest
goal of developing about 1,000 ha per year. The importance of improving
maintenance of irrigation schemes and cost recovery was recognized at
the Zinder Seminar. and self-management of irrigation schemes by
cooperatives was recommended and later endorsed by Government.   The
proposed project is in line with this Government strategy.
The Irrigation Subsector
36.       The  irrigation  potential  in Niger  is estimated  at  about
270,000 ha. Of this, 140,000 ha is in the Niger valley. The rest is in
the ADM (Ader-Doutchi-Maggia) valley (20,000 ha) in Tahoua Province, the
area along the Komadogou River and Lake Chad in the east (50,000 ha),
and in ancient river valleys called dallols and other small valleys
(60,000 ha). Out of the irrigation potential in the Niger valley of
140,000 ha, only 30,000 ha are lowlands ("cuvettes"), which have
generally good soils easily irrigable by low-lift pumping.  The rest
consists of upland terraces where soils are quite heterogenous and
high-lift pumping is costly. As of end 1983, there are about 10,000 ha
of irrigated land developed or under development in Niger, of which
6,000 ha are in the Niger valley and 3,500 ha in the ADM valley.
37.       Niger valley.  About 90X of the areas developed in the Niger
valley  are  rice monoculture.   With  the exception  of Namarigoungou
(1,450 ha), the 22 existing perimeters vary in size from 50 to 400 ha.
Most pumping stations are equipped with diesel engines.
38.       Potential yields as high as six tons of paddy/ha/crop are
attainable if all recommended practices are followed, but actual
performance has fallen well short of this production potential.   In
1982, average yields were estimated at only 2.8 tons/ha. Moreover, one
quarter of the total land developed was abandoned due to the
deterioration of irrigation infrastructure, and farmers could not manage
a second crop on 15% of the remaining area. The reasons for this poor
performance are:  (a) faulty design (e.g., some pumping stations are



- 11 -
located in parts of the river that dry up during the low-flow season);
(b) too much reliance on parastatals for the design, operation and
maintenance of the irrigation schemes; (c) unduly standardized agronomic
packages that do not take account of different local conditions in the
area; (d) lack cf a good seed multiplication and distribution system;
(e) workload conflicts between the wet season rice crop and traditional
rainfed crops, which could be resolved by providing animal traction
equipment; and (f) lack of incentives for farmers (e.g., compulsory
marketing of unduly high quotas imposed by Government and unattractive
official prices until 1982).
39.       The ADM valley.   Irrigation in the ADM valley, obtained by
gravity from three small catchment basins, is essentially a supplement
to the rains.  The main crops during the wet season are cotton and
sorkhum in rotation.  Average yields are already high at 2.6 and 1.9
tons,  respectively.   Dry season crops are vegetables  (mainly onion),
maize  and wheat.   On  one  perimeter,  double  cropping  is  impossible
because of the small capacity of the reservoir.  On the others, 10-50%
of areas developed are double cropped.  The main problem in the area is
the increasing siltation of the reservoirs, which reduces their capacity
and would eventually render them inoperative.  Another problem is the
poor maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure, which
has led to the abandonment of parts of the perimeters.
National Irrigation Authority (ONAHA)
40.       The "Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles" (ONAHA)
was created in 1979 as a financially autonomous public enterprise of an
industrial and commercial character, charged with the preparation of
studies and execution of irrigation works, the management of irrigation
schemes, the provision of extension services and the recovery of water
charges. Since its creation, ONAHA has acquired technical competence in
civil works construction as well as in the areas of support activities
for agricultural production.  The Bank- and KfW-financed Namarigoungou
project (paras 45-49) helped ONAHA to develop these skills.  The new
orientation   towards   self-management   of   irrigation   schemes   by
cooperatives, recommended at the Zinder Seminar and later endorsed by
Government, put emphasis on the role of ONAHA in:  (a) developing new
irrigation schemes and rehabilitating the ex'sting ones; (b) acting as a
manager  until  cooperatives   take  over  management  of  perimeters;
(c) providing services at full cost at the request of cooperatives; and
(d) helping to ensure self-management by cooperatives.
41.       A weakness, however, is found in administrative and financial
management.    Internal  control  over  personnel  and  administrative
procedures is weak.  In addition, ONAHA has been confronted with severe
fin.-ncial problems because Government failed to provide it with funds
buhgeted and would not allow it to charge cooperatives at rates which
covered costs. As a result, ONAHA has been obliged to borrow funds from
the National Agricultural Development Bank ("Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole" - CNCA), and is currently unable to repay its accumulated debt
estimated at CFAF 90D million.  As conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed project, Government is to make satisfactory arrangements for
the assumption or settlement of ONARA's accumulated debts to CNCA, and
to  pay  off  ONAHA's  overdues  to  its  suppliers  (CFAF  200 million)



- 12 -
(Section 6.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement - DCA). In general,
the   proposed   project  would   strengthen   ONARA's   financial   and
administrative capability (para. 57).
Cooperatives
42.       Niger has  a good legal framework for the development of
cooperatives. Since 1966, Government has promoted a cooperative system
which is based on collective membership of basic socio-economic enti-
ties,  i.e.,  villages.   Several  Village  Mutual  Groups  ("Groupement
Mutualiste Villageois" - GMV) comprised of heads of households in each
village are combined to form a cooperative.   A GMV is collectively
responsible vis-&-vis the cooperative to which it belongs for obtaining
credit, purchasing inputs, collecting water charges, etc.  Almost all
the territory is now organized into cooperatives.
43.       Irrigation  cooperatives  formed  by  all  the  participating
farmers in each irrigation perimeter are assisted by ONAHA for technical
and financial management.   Under the proposed project,  cooperatives
themselves would be in direct charge of the operations and management of
irrigation schemes, with ONAHA having only an advisory role and pro-
viding training.
Rice Marketing and Pricing
44.       The national production of paddy is estimated to have been in
the range of 25-40,000 tons per year and meets only some 40% of consump-
tion  estimated  at  70-80,000  tons.   The  rice processing  parastatal
("Societe Riz du Niger" - RINI) buys paddy from farmers through
cooperatives at fixed prices set by Government and sells the rice to the
Grain Marketing Board ("Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger" - OPVN)
or private merchants at prices also set by Government. Official paddy
prices were raised in 1982 to their current level of CFAF 85/kg, which
provides adequate incentives to farmers. However, the Government is now
considering full liberalization of cereal pricing as part of its future
structural  adjustment  program.   Government  until  recently  imposed
compulsory paddy sales by cooperative members to RINI at levels which
left very little for their own consumption.  However, farmers would now
be given the option of selling to RINI or to the private sector any
surplus of marketable paddy above what they owe to their cooperatives
(e.g., for direct operating costs of irrigation and seasonal inputs)
(Section 2.05 of draft Project Agreement - PA).
Experience under Previous Irrigation Projects
45.       Namarigoungou Irrigation Project.   The project  (Credit No.
851-NIR) became effective in October 1979 and construction started in
early 1980, jointly financed by IDA and KfW. The project was completed
in December 1983, and a project completion report is under preparation.
46.       The project has increased Niger's agricultural production,
especially rice (about 10,000 tons of incremental paddy production),
through the development of 1,450 ha of irrigated lands (1,350 ha of rice
perimeters and the rest for vegetables and other crops), and has been
successful in raising the income of participating farmers.



- 13 -
47.       The project's main achievements were:  (a) the setting up of
two well-functioning cooperatives, which are models for other coopera-
tives;   (b) the  successful   introduction  of  animal  traction  and
foot-operated threshing machines; (c) a good record of cost recovery (in
addition to the cost of inputs, beneficiaries bore the full cost of
energy and pumping set maintenance, and set aside a provision for
equipment  replacement);   (d) effective  seed  multiplication  at  the
farmers' group level (Namarigoungou even produces seeds for other
perimeters); and (e) acceptable yields (despite serious pest attacks,
present yields average 4 tons/ha of paddy) and the achievement of double
cropping on the entire area developed.
48.       The appraisal mission of the proposed project judged, however,
that to sustain the present high performance, further support would be
necessary.   For  this  reason,  the  Namarigoungou  perimeter  would  be
included in the proposed project for such aspects as credit, follow-up
training, agricultural extension, assistance to cooperatives, and
monitoring of alkaline soils.
49.       The lessons learned from the Namarigoungou Project have been
included in the proposed project which in turn is expected to provide
further experience in particular with regard to cooperative management
of irrigation schemes and the role of ONAHA in irrigation development
and   monitoring.    Thus,   the   implementation   of   the   Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project would provide Government and IDA with important
information which would be most valuable for the preparation of future
investment projects in this field.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
50.       Preparation of the project began in February 1982 with a PPF
advance of US$1 million and a CCCE advance of US$200,000. Based on the
feasibility study, project appraisal was carried out by a joint IDA/CCCE
mission in November-December 1983. Negotiations were held in February
1985 with a Nigerien delegation led by His Excellency Mr. Haladou Salha,
Secretary  of  State  of  Rural  Development.   Two  important  problems
concerning the rice processing agency "Riz du Niger" and medium-term
credit distribution remained unresolved during negotiations. However,
satisfactory solutions to these two points have now been worked out and
are discussed below.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The   principal   project   objectives   are   to   promote
cooperatives'/farmers'   self-reliance  in  management  of  irrigation
schemes, to ensure the sustainability of the irrigation schemes, and to
increase production of paddy,  cotton,  sorghum and other crops,  thus
improving  farm  incomes.   The  project  also  aims  at  developing  an
institutional   framework   for   future   irrigation   development   by:
(a) ensuring   extensive   participation   of   cooperatives/farmers   in
operating and managing perimeters; (b) setting up an efficient cost
recovery mechanism; (c) involving the private sector in maintaining



- 14 -
pumping equipment; and (d) strengthening ONAXA, the Government's
irrigation development agency.  These objectives would be achieved In
existing irrigation perimeters through the following project components:
(a)  rehabilitation   of   irrigation   infrastructure   and
equipment;
(b)  promotion of crop intensification, including promotion of
animal traction;
(c) assistance to irrigation cooperatives;
(d)  introduction    of    adaptive    research    and    seed
multiplication;
(e) strengthening of ONAHA's management capability, including
setting up a monitoring and evaluation unit; and
(f) strengthening of RINI's management capability.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5161-NIR) is being circulated to the
Executive  Directors  separately.   Annex III  contains  supplementary
project data.
52.       Rehabilitation works would cover 16 perimeters, namely,  11
pump-irrigated perimeters in the Niger valley, totaling about 2,200 ha,
and five gravity-irrigated perimeters in the ADM valley, totaling about
850 ha. The main improvement in the Niger valley would consist of the
replacement of most diesel-driven pumping units with electric ones,
which are easier to maintain and more economical. Diesel pumps would be
repaired and kept as back-ups in case of power failure.  In the ADM
valley, the main works would be the rehabilitation of the three
catchment dams, including raising the crest level of one dam
(Ibohamane). In both valleys, rehabilitation works would also involve
the  reshaping  and  reinforcement  of  protection  dykes,  and  the
rehabilitation of portions of irrigation canals, drains and access
roads.   The rehabilitation of infrastructure would bring back into
production an additional area of about 350 ha, included in the total of
3,050 ha, and introduce double cropping to the whole rice area in the
Niger valley. ONARA would not start rehabilitation works on a given
perimeter until it had concluded a contract, satisfactory to IDA,
spelling out mutual obligations regarding operations and maintenance of
irrigation works with the cooperative concerned and this cooperative had
adopted internal statutes consistent with the model satisfactory to IDA
(Section 2.05 of draft PA).
53.       After rehabilitation, ONAHA would continue to be responsible
for any maintenance of irrigation and drainage canals and dykes
requiring heavy equipment. Terms and c_aditions for such maintenance
would be set out in contracts between ONARA and each cooperative. The
project would finance the establishment of two maintenance brigades
attached to regional offices of ONARA. Any canal maintenance to be done
by hand would be the responsibility of cooperatives. Maintenance of
pumping equipment, on the other hand, would be entrusted to private



- 15 -
contractors, and bidders for pumping equipment have been requested to
submit bids for pump maintenance.  Pump maintenance contracts between
each cooperative and an equipment supplier would be monitored by ONAHA.
ONAHA would review maintenance performance under such cantracts
annually.
54.       Crop intensification programs would be carried out on the 16
perimeters to be physically rehabilitated as well as the two rice
perimeters of Say and Namarigoungou where no physical rehabilitation is
necessary  (4,700 ha altogether).   The  intensification would aim at:
(a) an average paddy yield of 3,850 kg/ha/season on the 13 rice
perimeters (3,835 ha), compared with the present average vield of
2,600 kg/ha on the perimeters to be rehabilitated; (b) a double cropping
on all rice areas; and (c) average annual yields of 2,800 and
2,000 kg/ha for cotton and sorghum, respectively, in the ADM region,
compared with the present yields of about 2,600 and 1,850 kg/ha,
respectively.  These improvements would be achieved by:  (a) increasing
fertilizer dosages based on results of trials carried out in
Namarigoungou; (b) providing medium-term credit for the purchase of
2,000 pairs of draft animals with equipment and 1,500 pedal threshers to
enable timely land preparation and threshing; and (c) supplying pure
seed.
55.       Assistance to cooperatives.  The success of the project in the
long run hinges on the participation of beneficiaries and on their
adequately maintaining the assets put at their disposal.  While con-
siderable progress has already been made in this field, clearly defined
responsibilities and a strong training program are still required to
achieve self-management by cooperatives in the maintenance of irrigation
works and pumps, marketing of paddy and preparation of proper
cooperatives'  accounts.   To  provide  a  favorable  environment  for
cooperative self-management in irrigation schemes, Government has taken
actions to clarify cooperative accounts viS3-a-vis banks, suppliers,
collection agencies and individual members, as well as to draw up a
draft contract between Government and cooperatives, and a draft of the
cooperatives' internal statutes. Government has also been requested as
a condition of effectiveness to prepare a plan for reconstructing
cooperatives' debts including recommendations, if necessary, through a
Government-appointed committee, for debt rescheduling, cancellation, or
expulsion of defaulters and to take concrete steps to implement such a
plan.   This  exercise  is well  under wav.   Functional  literacy  and
numeracy programs, executed by the Literacy Service of the Ministry of
Education and the "Animation" Service of the Ministry of Planning, and
coordinated by ONAHA, are at the core of the training program for
cooperatives.   Simple accounting procedures suitable for cooperatives
were  also  developed  as  part  of  project  preparation.   ONAHA would
supervise cooperative management and ensure enforcement of contracts and
statutes.  It would also help them establish village woodlots on soils
unsuitable for crops.  In addition to animal traction equipment and
pedal threshers (para 54), the project would provide medium-term credit
for blacksmith equipment and collective agricultural equipment as well
as seasonal credit for inputs, as outlined further in paragraph 70.
56.       Adaptive  research  and  seed  multiplication.   The  National
Institute of Agronomic Research (INRANI) would conduct on-site fertilizer



- 16 -
trials and would introduce and test new rice varieties.   INRAN would
also produce, on a contract basis. rice foundation seeds to be multi-
plied by cooperatives.  Two agronomists, financed by the project and
posted at ONAHA headquarters, would be the key liaison between research
and extension. They would assist ONAHA regional offices in testing the
packages proposed by INRAN, plan the production of foundation seed and
monitor the quality of cooperatives' and contract farmers' seed
multiplication.
57.       Strengthening of ONAHA.   Given the weak administrative and
financial management of ONAHA, the project would finance additional
staff including an expatriate financial manager and a chief accountant,
office equipment, vehicles and operating expenses, as well as revolving
funds for UNAHA to prefinance expenditures to be reimbursed under
external  financing.   In addition,  ONAHA would establish a unit  for
coordination, monitoring, evaluation, financial planning, budgeting and
budgetary  control.   ONAHA would  set up  this new unit  to be fully
operational not later than December 31, 1985, and would appoint
personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA to
staff the unit (Section 2.06 of the draft PA). Due to lack of effective
internal control over administrative procedures, the most recent
accounts (1982/83) of ONAHA were not certified.  In order to redress
this situation, a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would be
that ONAHA employ a financial manager, a chief accountant and three
regional accountants whose qualifications would be satisfactory to IDA
(Section 6.01 of draft DCA). ONAHA would put order in its accounts by
September 30, 1986, the date by which these accounts must be certified
by independent auditors (Section 4.01 of the draft PA).
58.       Strengthening of RINI.  RINI's technical and financial capa-
bilities have improved significantly since mid 1983. However, in order
to run its rice mills effectively and become financially viable, RINI
would need  financial and managerial assistance.   The project would
finance additional storage capacity, minor equipment, and technical
assistance for RINI to enable it to process the paddy purchased from the
project cooperatives and farmers and to improve its overall efficiency.
Government is in the process of negotiating a management contract for
RINI with  the French Company  for Cotton Development  (CFDT).   As a
condition of effectiveness, Government would cause RINI to sign a
management contract satisfactory to IDA (Section 6.01 of draft DCA).
International Water Rights
59.       Since works would be limited to the rehabilitation of existing
perimeters, the project would not cause the consumption of river water
to exceed the consumption capacity that was originally foreseen for
these perimeters under optimal conditions.   Water consumption would,
however, be marginally increased over the current level because some
areas are not under cultivation at present due to the deterioration of
irrigation  works.   The  project  would  not  have  significant  adverse
effects on downstream riparians. All Niger river riparians have signed
the 1980 convention creating the Niger Basin Authority, which is
charged,  inter  alia,  with  harmonizing  and  coordinat4ng  national
development plans on the Niger river. The convention requires member
states to inform the authority of any works undertaken on the river. At



- 17 -
negotiations, the Government confirmed that they had complied with this
requirement.
Project Implementation
60.       The project would be implemented over a five year period,
starting in October  1985, with ONAHA as  the lead agency.   ONAHA's
General Manager would act as Project Manager, except for the RINI
component, which would be managed separately by RINI.  ONAHA's three
Regional Offices (Tillabery, Niamey and Tahoua) would be responsible for
day-to-day project activities and field level coordination. ONAHA would
be directly responsible for implementing the physical rehabilitation of
the irrigated perimeters and for carrying out crop development
activities (extension, crop intensification, monitoring and evaluation).
Adaptive research and the production of foundation seeds would be
subcontracted to INRAN.  The electrification of the pumping stations
would be subcontracted to the National Electric Authority (NIGELEC).
For cooperative training, ONAHA's Regional Offices would coordinate and
supervise the implementation of training activities by regional teams
composed of representatives of the Literacy Service of the Ministry of
Education, the "Animation" Service of the Ministry of Planning and
ONAHA.   The  Forestry  Service  of  the  Ministry  of  Hydrology  and
Environment would, under ONAHA's supervision, help establish village
woodlots on soils unsuitable for crops.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
61.       Total project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties, are
estimated at US$25.2 million equivalent, of which about US$14.2 million
(572) in foreign exchange costs.  Cost estimates are based on price
quotations as of December 1983, adjusted to February 198', the date of
negotiations.   They  include  physical  contingencies  totaling  5%  of
project  base  costs,  and price  contingencies  on  local costs  of  6%
annually, and on foreign costs applied as follows:   1985, 5%; 1986,
7.5%; 1987-89, 8%.
62.       The proposed financing plan is based on a combination of joint
and parallel arrangements among the external donors and reflects their
particular  preferences   on  the  terms  and  conditions  of  their
participation in the project.  External sources, including IDA, would
provide US$22.5 million equivalent, or about 89Z of total project costs,
net of taxes.  IDA would finance US$9.3 million equivalent (37Z of the
total); CCCE, US$9.3 million equivalent (37Z); and KfW, US$3.9 million
equivalent  (15%).   IDA would finance rehabilitation of the catchment
dams in the ADM valley (US$1.2 million), the earthmoving equipment
(US$1.2 million) and pedal threshers (US$0.3 million), expatriate staff
(Chief of Monitoring and Evaluation of ONAHA, Chief of Financial
Planning, Budgeting and Budgetary Control of ONAHA) and short-term
consultarts (together US$1.4 million). Jointly with CCCE and KfW, IDA
would also finance rehabilitation works on force account (excluding
equipment and expatriate staff), miscellaneous construction, local
operating costs, miscellaneous equipment and seasonal credit funds for
cooperatives. In addition to the above, CCCE would finance the pumping
equipment, civil works related to pumping stations, vehicles, farm
implements, the revolving fund for RINI and consultants (US$6.8 million)



- 18 -
under a parallel arrangement, and KfW would finance the electrical
equipment, works and equipment for RINI and consultants (US$1.8 million)
also under a parallel arrangement.
63.       The Nigerien Government contribution to project costs would be
about US$1.3 mlllion equivalent (5.0Z) to finance the overhaul of the
Namarigoungou  equipment  used  for  the  rehabilitation  works  and
incremental civil servant staff salaries. Beneficiaries' contribution,
consisting of down-payments for agricultural equipment and medium-term
credit repayment, is estimated at US$1.4 million (5.7%).
Procurement and Disbursemene
64.       Engineering designs are available for all works to be con-
structed. Preparation of bidding documents was completed in May 1984.
In order to minimize the risks of cost overruns, bids have been called
and are currently being reviewed, and the results do not affect the cost
estimates.
65.       Procurement.  Works and goods to be financed under parallel
arrangements by CCCE and KfW (para 62) would be procured through
procedures acceptable to these agencies. Works and goods to be financed
exclusively by IDA would be procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB). Except for rehabilitation of the catchment dams in the
ADM valley (IDA under ICB) and civil works related to pumping stations
(CCCE), rehabilitation works on irrigation/drainage systems, roads and
protection dykes would be done on force account, since the dispersed and
sporadic nature of the works and the need to work around cropping
schedules give an advantage to ONAHA. Force account work done under the
Niamarigoungou project has proven less expensive when compared with the
quotations for similar works by local contractors. Contracts for other
civil works totaling US$0.2 million would be awarded in accordance with
local  procedures  acceptable  to  IDA.   Contracts  for  miscellaneous
equipment valued at less than US$50,000, to be financed under a joint
arrangement, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive 'idding
procedures,  which  are  acceptable  to  IDA.   Amounts  and methods  of
procurement are shown in tabular form at Annex IV, where the IDA amounts
are in brackets.
66.       Consultants.   Expatriate  staff  and  short-term  consultants
costs amount to about US$3.6 million, including contingencies, for 246
man-months of resident expatriate staff (for force account works,
ONAHA's financial, agricultural and monitoring staff, RINI's rice
processing expert) and 39 man-months of short-term consultants.
Expatriate staff and consultants to be financed by IDA would be selected
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and their terms of
reference, qualificatinns and experience would also be acceptable to
IDA.
67.       Contract review.   All bidding packages for works and goods
over US$100,000 financed by IDA would be subject to IDA's prior review
of procurement documentation. Such packages are expected to constitute
about 90% of the total estimated value of works and goods contracted
other than force account works.   The remaining  contracts  would be



- 19 -
subject to random post-review by IDA after contract award. Civil works
done on force account would be reviewed through annual budget approval.
68.       Disbursement.   Disbursement  of  the proposed  IDA credit  is
expected to be completed in six years under the following categories:
(1) Civil works:
(a)  rehabilitation of catchment dams (US$1.1 million) -- 1002
of total expenditures;
(b)  other (US$1.3 million) -- 49% of total expenditures;
(2) Equipment:
(a)  construction   (US$1.1   million)   --   100%   of   total
expenditures;
(b)  agricultural  --  threshers  (US$0.3 million)  --  90% of
total expenditures;
(c)  agricultural -- other (US$0.1 million) -- 44% of total
expenditures;
(3) Salaries of ONAHA's incremental staff on contract, training
and operating costs and office equipment (US$1.4 million) --
49% of total expenditures;
(4) Services of consultants, experts and specialists and studies
(US$1.4 million) -- 100% of total expenditures;
(5)  Seasonal  credit  fund  (US$0.2  million)  --  49%  of  total
expenditures;
(6) Special Account (US$0.8 million);
(7) Refunding of PPF (USS1.0 million); and
(8) Unallocated (US$0.6 million).
Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for cate-
gories (l)(b) and (3) above, for which statements of expenditures (SOE)
would  suffice.   In  the  case  of  the  SOE  procedures,  supporting
documentation would be kept by ONAHA for verification by the auditors
financed under the project and for review by IDA supervision missions.
On-Lending and Administration of Funds
69.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be passed on by Govern-
ment in grant form to ONAHA and as a line of credit to cooperatives at
an annual interest rate of 1.0% to purchase agricultural equipment.
Assets created or upgraded by investments (rehabilitation works) would
belong to Government, while ONAHA would act as a manager for the assets.
Funds for applied research and the electrification of the pumping
stations would be passed on to other subcontracting Government agencies
(INRAN and NIGELEC)  by ONAHA.   ONAHA would  furnish  the appropriate
Government services with all the means necessary (except civil servant
salaries) to carry out training activities and the establishment of
woodlots.



- 20 -
70.       Credit management.   The project would finance two types of
credit.    Credit  would  not  be  channelled   through  the  National
Agricultural Development Bank (CNCA) which, because of past questionable
lending  practices,  is  facing  increasing  recovery  problems.   Being
practically bankrupt it has now ceased all lending operations. Hence,
until a long-term solution for agricultural credit is worked out, credit
under  the project would  be handled  in  the  following way.   First,
seasonal credit would be provided by cooperatives to their members out
of their seasonal credit funds (a total of US$0.9 million), to be
established at each cooperative by the project as a grant.  With this
fund, cooperatives would purchase seasonal inputs for the use of members
and prefinance collective charges for irrigation operations. After the
initial establishment of seasonal credit funds, individual members'
repayment against seasonal credit would be paid into the revolving fund
administered thereafter by each cooperative.   Seasonal credit extended
to individual members by cooperatives would bear annual interest of not
less than 12% to cover administrative costs, bad debts and expected
inflation (Schedule 4 of draft DCA). Secondly, medium-term credit would
be provided for farm implements (US$1.9 million), blacksmith equipment
(US$34,000), threshers (US$0.6 million), and collective equipment
(US$0.35 million). Medium-term credit would be managed by cooperatives,
with technical assistance provided by ONAHA.   Farmers would make  a
minimum 10% down-payment and repay the rest to the cooperatives at an
annual interest rate of 12% over a period of a maximum of five years.
Cooperatives would in turn repay Government at an annual interest rate
of 1.0% over a period of a maximum of eight years (Schedule 4 of draft
DCA). Since further details on terms and conditions for credit remain
to be laid out, Government would, as a condition of disbursement for
agricultural equipment and seasonal credit funds (Categories (2)(b),
(2)(c) and (5)), make contractual arrangements with cooperatives
satisfactory to IDA for seasonal and medium-term credit (Schedule 1 of
draft DCA).
71.       Revolving funds.  In view of Government's limited capacity to
prefinance  expenditures   for  rehabilitation  works,   each  of  the
cofinanciers would establish a revolving fund for a total amount of
CFAF 720   million   (US$1.6   million)    immediately   after   credit
effectiveness.  IDA would make an initial deposit of its share (49% of
the total),  CFAF 353 million  (US$0.8 million),  .nto an  IDA Special
Account.   IDA would  replenish  the  revolving  fund  upon  receipt  of
satisfactory  evidence  that  related  expenditures  were  eligible  for
financing.
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
72.       ONAHA would  keep  separate  project  accounts  at  its  three
regional offices and would consolidate them in accordance with sound and
acceptable  accounting principles  and practices.   In additior,  ONAHA
would complete the design, installation and operation of r cost
accounting system by December 31,  1985.   Annually audited  financial
statements and reports for ONAHA, as well as bi-annual reports on
physical and financial progress of the project, would be submitted to
IDA for review according to an agreed schedule. Cooperatives' accounts
would also be audited by an independent auditor every other year
starting from fiscal year 1985/86 and ONAHA would provide assistance for



- 21 -
the design and installation of an appropriate accounting system for
cooperatives, and training of local bookkeepers capable of running the
system.
Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery
73.       All the direct mai.ntenance and operating costs for irrigation,
including energy, maintenance of infrastructure and pumps, replacement
of pumps and salaries of perimeter managers, would be borne by
beneficiaries (Section 2.05 of draft PA).  ONAHA would charge the full
cost of maintenance services for irrigation infrastructure to allow it
to  replace  maintenance  equipment.   Recovery  of  investment  costs
(irrigation infrastructure and initial installation of pumps) is aot
envisaged, at least at the beginning of the project.   However. once
yields improve and farmers accept the principle of paying all the direct
maintenance and operating costs, there may be room for a "capital tax"
to recover a part of investment costs. Therefore, the imposition of the
"capital tax" is subject to a detailed review in PY3 (1987/88) and may
be introduced in PY4 (1988/89) if the results of monitoring and
evaluation  of  farmers'  income  demonstrate  its  feasibility.   While
cooperatives would thus assume increased responsibility for irrigation
operations and maintenance, Government would retain responsibility for
and finance the costs of a nucleus extension network, the adaptive
research program and the operation of technical and support services at
central and regional levels. These incremental recurrent costs (CFAF 55
million) and ONAHA's non-incremental overhead costs (public service
functions) would amount to CFAF 255 million per year in 1984 prices, for
which Government would provide timely and sufficient funds to ONAHA
(Section 4.02 of draft DCA).  This amount is less than two thirds of
ONAHA's  present  budgetary  requirement.   Government's  project-related
cash flow is positive prior to debt service buz slightly negative,
except for a few years, after debt service; the proposed capital tax
would render the post-debt service cash flow positive.
74.       The Government originally established a policy of subsidized
agricultural inputs as a means of transferring some of the uranium
revenues  to the  rural  sector.   Although  the uranium  revenues were
severely depleted, the subsidies were retained, with the consequence
that quantities of inputs available were reduced. Since the benefits of
improved inputs have been demonstrated, there is little justification
for a subsidy on farm implements (current subsidy rates ranging from 40
to 60%), although there is some justification for a subsidy on seasonal
inputs as a proxy for the absence of any form of insurance against crop
failure.   At negotiations,  the Government  confirmed  that  it is the
Government's stated policy to gradually abolish all agricultural input
subsidies and that, in fact, under a recent USAID agricultural sector
grant, the Government is already committed to reducing the average rate
of subsidy on agricultural equipment to 15% by end-1988. IDA agreed for
the purpose of this project to accept the Government's present efforts.
Reduction of subsidies both on agricultural equipment and seasonal
inputs would continue to be reviewed in the context of the structural
adjustment program currently under preparation.



- 22 -
Project Benefits and Risks
75.       The project would directly benefit about 80,000 people.  They
are essentially subsistence smallholders. engaged in rainfed farming as
well as in irrigation with a small parcel of about 0.25 ha each and are
therefore somewhat better off than others who do not have access to
irrigation.   The main quantifiable benefits of the project would be
increased production of paddy in the Niger River valley, increased
production of cotton, sorghum and onion in the ADM valley, savings on
operation and maintenance costs, and time savings resulting from the use
of pedal threshing machines for paddy.  At full development,  annual
incremental production is estimated at 11,000 tons of paddy (PY5),
990 tons of seed cotton (PY15), 740 tons of sorghum (PY15), and 1,710
tons of onion (PY4). Non-quantifiable project benefits are expected to
come from the improvement in institutional arrangements, which aims at
establishing a reliable and sustainable system of irrigation operations
in the country.
76.       The economic rate of return on the overall project is esti-
mated at 18%.  In the event of a 20% decrease in benefits and 202
increase in costs, the rate cf return would fall to 14% and 15Z respec-
tively. The rate of return for the 14 Niger valley perimeters alone is
20% and for the ADM valley (five perimeters), 12%.
77.       The technical risks associated with the physical rehabilita-
tion works are minimal. The only major foreseeable risk is related to
maintenance  and  operations.   The  maintenance  contracts  of  pumping
stations entrusted to the private sector are subject to an annual
performance check to keep maintenance costs to a minimum and at the same
time to prevent poor maintenance. The other risk would be the failure
on the part of cooperatives to establish a reliable system of
maintenance and operations. To minimize this risk, the project would
finance an important training program covering functional literacy,
numeracy and management, and would ensure that the necessary framework
(contracts between Government and cooperatives, internal regulations and
clearing-up of accounts) is in place before any rehabilitation work
starts.   The  fact  that  all  the  perimeters  are  independent  would
substantially reduce the risk of a major project failure.
78.       Other possible risks are financial and managerial.  One risk
would be failure by Government to provide a sufficient budgetary
allocation to ONAHA.  This risk cannot be entirely ruled out but the
amount at stake is less than ONAHA's present budgetary requirement and
Government's project-related cash flow would be favorable.  The risk
related to ONAHA's management capability would be minimized by financing
a training program for its staff and technical assistance and by
Government's strong commitment to this project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the



- 23 -
Association and ONARA, and the Recommendation of .:he Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association,  are  being  distributed  separately  to  the  Executive
Directors.
80.       Special  conditions of  the proposed project  ara  listed  in
Section III of Annex III. A condition of disbursement for medium-term
and seasonal credit is that Government make contractual arrangements
with cooperatives satisfactory to IDA for credit distribution (para 70).
Conditions of effectiveness are as follows:  (a) Government would make
satisfactory arrangements for the assumption or settlement cf ONAHA's
accumulated debts to CNCA (para 41); (b) Government would -ay off
ONAHA's overdues to its suppliers (para 41); (c) Government would
prepare  a  plan  for  reconstructing  cooperatives'  debts  including
recommendations for debt rescheduling, cancellation, or expulsion of
defaulters and would have taken concrete steps to implement such a plan
(para 55);  (d) ONAHA  woiild  employ  a  financial  manager,  a  chief
accountant and three regional accountants whose qualifications would be
satisfactory to IDA (para 57); (e) Government would cause RINI to sign a
management contract, satisfactory to IDA, with a qualified firm
(para 58); and (f) Government would meet the conditions of effectiveness
of the CCCE loan and KfW grant.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMM1ENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
date
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                       ANNE I
Page 1 of 5
NICER                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNBT
Mical                               REFERNCc9 GROU PS (UICISTED AVKRACU) L
HOST                (SOST RICS RSTiInf) .Lb
on ICKT    LOW INCO1M AnICA         HIDDLE ICUS
196ri!    19701M    ESTDEACfTE      SOUTE OF SARA        AFRCA S. Or SWAR
M   (2H3 W q. uID
TOTAL                              1267.0    1267.0       1267.0
AZRICULRUAL                         126.0      L30.0       131.2
a       CAPI  (CSS)                    120.0     L40.0        310.0           249.1 i1112.9
n         Cmu  oON MR CAPTA
(KILOCRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         4.0      17.0         32.0            62.6                    529.0
rOPULDATOD - VITAL STATXFrICs
POPUL.ATIOH.NID-TZAR (THOUSANDS)   2878.0    4008.0       3678.0
URBAN POPULATION (3 or TOTAL)         5.8       8.4         13.5            19.2                     29.7
POPULATION PROJICTIOHs
POPULATIOH IN YAR 2000 (HILL)                             1o. 5
STATIONUA  POPULATION (KILL)                              40.0
POPULATION  N#ENTIDM                                       1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                         2.3        3.2         4.5            32.5                     55.8
PER SQ. DI. AGRI. LAmo             22.5      30.8         43.5           119.2                    111.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTIRE (I)
0-14 IRS                          44.8      46.)         47.0            45.6                     43.4
1364 TRS                          52.7      31.1         50.7            51.3                     31.7
65 AND ABOVE                        2.6       2.6          2.5             2.9                      2.9
POPULATION CRORTH RATE CI)
TOrAL                               2.3        3.3         3.2             2.8                      2.6
URSAN                               4.1        7.0         7.1             6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         51.9      50.7         51.5            46.6                     47.0
CRUD0 DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         26.8      23.8         20.1            17.7                     15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5       3.5          3.5             3.2                      3.2
FAMILY FLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 OF MAUIlD WEMCN)            ..         ..
FOOD -D ITUTIOS
INREl OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       112.0      96.0         83.0            85.8                     91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREENHTS)      101.0      89.0        102.0            86.4                     98.2
PPOTEINS (CANS PER DAT)            65.0       17.0        69.0            49.9                     56.7
DIF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       20.0       19.0        26.0 /c         18.3                     17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          44.7      35.0         27.0            23.8                     18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2      40.5         44.9            48.4                     51.7
INFANT MRT. RATE (PER THOUS)        178.0     isa.0        232.0           117.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PPm)
TOTAL                                --      20.0         27.0 /d         21.8                     3536
URAN                                 ._      37.0         3807d           61.5                     34.1
RURAL.                               ..       19.0        26.0 7          14.2                     27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        1.0         1.0 /d         32.0
URBAN                                ..      10.0         36.0 7i         69.2
RURAL                                .          ..         3.07i          24.8
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN          82170.0   58090.0      38790.0 /a      27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON            8460.0   7020.0      4650.0 7W        3396.2                   2248.9
POP. PCR HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2210.0    2220.0       1640.0 /a       1089.0                    966.9
URBAN                                -      360.0        420W0 7r        395-2                    368.7
RURAL                                ..    4230.0       2020.07W        3094.0                   4012.1
ADH.SSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          10.4      3 34.7 /b
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                           ..            ..
URBAN                                ..        ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONSIROOK
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                                ,,
RURAL                                '          - -         ' '              '                        -
ACCESS TO ELECT. El oF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                                ..        ..
RURAL                                ..         ..



- 25 -                                       AN'=d I
Paige 2 of 5
t.. :14         _      - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NL :mR                               AEFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES) La.
HDST                 C3DST RECENT ESrVIMn) fb
RECENT     LOW INCOME ARICA         !IIDDLE INCOME
19601-b   1971a!    ESTINATE1b       SOUTH OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. or SAHARA
IlSlUKIArtolG
ADJUSTLD ENROLLNENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                      5.0       14.0         23.0 /I         69.2                      91.0
MALE                      7.0       18.0         29.0 7;          78.5                      90.5
F8HALF                    3.0        9.0         17.0 7;          57.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     0.3        1.0          4.0 /a          13.1                     17.4
KALE                      1.0        2.0          5.0 7;          17.6                     23.7
FEMALE                    0.1        1.0          2.07;            8.3                     14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)            1.3        2.7          1.3 /a          7.2                       S.3
PUP! L-TEACNHR RATIO
PRIRARY                             43.0 If   39.0          41.0 1e          46.1                     33.6
SECONDARY                           11.0 7F    20.0         28.0o7T;        25.9                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                0.9         ..          9.8             44.3                     35.6
CON5EWIT10b
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            D.3        1.4          2.4 /a          3.5                      20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP           3.3       36.2         45.2            41.9                     100.8
TV RECELVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..         ..          0.9              2.0                     18.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
?ER THOUSAND POPULATION              0.3        0.5          0.6 Ia           5.4                     17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..        0.2           ..              1.4                      0.3
LABOR FDRCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            94b.0    1276.0        1821.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.0        9.7         10.2            36.)                      33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.0       93.0         91.0            77.4                      57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.0        2.0          3.0             9.8                      17.4
PARTIClPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.9       31.8         31.0             41.0                     36.3
MALE                                60.2       58.1         56.4             52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                               5.9        6.1          6.2             30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4        1.5          1.6              1.1                      1.4
INCMtE D1STREBU1TIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..           ..              ..                         -
HICHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..           . -
LOWEST 2OX OF HOUSEHOLfDS
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         --
FovWRTT TASCET anon
ESTtIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                      133.0 Ic         168.3                    525.3
RURAL                                 .          ..         63.0 7i         90.8                     249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..        133.0 Ii        107.7                     477.4
RURAL                                 ..         ..         53.0 7;W        65.0                     186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                 ..         ..           ..             34.7
RURAL                                 ..         ..         35.0 /A         65.4.
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
The group averages for eacb Indicator are population-welghted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabillty of date and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dats for 1970" between 1969 and
1971: and data for -Moat Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/I  1977; /d 1976: Ie 1978; /f 1962; I& 1964: /h 1966; 11 1975.
JUNE. 1984



-26 -ANNEX 
KCML IMICAT0111Page  3  of  5
ebl_n,   Tlt.4  *,lu jamsse  dna  ig_  se_n_  de__eti, sMg"  ml. -t.   ..etrplrsesl.a   bood .1efLi. to skletol si                    eS  btS          r       eit..s.st
.W si   ess   1 st%les  L! --wadfloloe ftsitlife       4  -td ,sas  woos n t b  Gifte-.a  woantis Is eahle.tim  it.  vas .      4.us  u.  sms               eftm
d.rI otds   islselotds    -.5 ..    a   h.a.t..mleJsi dirl-o.ss   kit.. -sen..
thenist..  *t. 5.  It sh            .syegy       if *fte fist., - T 9 siy ee   (A La henryE m -p th .te-il html., ens... Ime                 b-I ..v.it   k    se   tisle,e   t.5  b
s.ijs-. 4.m..I swet Pe Niie         IMIes     llitup-m.e  ar.-p td.t '111,1d11. I..  gitt%h  ris- md Miiit. 1bat is stneI.e.... eFer.1,si-sie.
stlstm.s  mci.r.Srsa.-ns  dame ste -st.r            .-  psgeisi.slw t.latsd eu       1111. ...   tr- sea lsl.et.r .m  sba-  -&Iy st.- ss3 trl.  ste  -"t-.s t. I
L.-, mulAs'- msslilss.'ins  h   sen  atWD  t.ds1                         t -e ta  ste iudiss.r  hy.S   -   h.e snIi.bhtdimm  s  d"B. -d 4    .-s  .-I F.M. tetis =esi te
esrts    trLemm s1e.mae- s .5  -  PI-dia .r -...d..........   en .usty -1  wiGhl Is esrptusa 'h. s.mse if                      tw o.4 ..      sUIe.1     .. is. sesi, e-1
ARIA ishassumi u-qIe.t                                                     lISh~~~~~~~~~~~pop iiZaTfl21S2meisitF4.1.4by  .te. 5f psd-tisill
WI   .   .1ds.                                                                                 resisIwotusllql    s   q1.11e.s                        ILe ets    Pupissis. (LsssI.
srks. sdtrsl4ids          4p   9   tsspet. sss& r .1hspsi  s
IR!L5W I!II-S    ttarmssm...                         irs   .ntriss                                  e tisl  is pe1,1lm  54 ptisem   gsnesl mmd spssi            hpitel, sW"
piU-s1sdi           s.rl   ess               idts tM            ie-abit                             tle   lei   51m            sytl  setUssssbtts-ss,s -ps.ytsti  55555
nsa. m-tt. e.d ens1 G*..                                                                            by as  sat a-  vlphyset..1   tsholitlskesot. resdijir     prInimelIt ssssdsl.
sees e-i  1.4.I4.4.   s..l tespiteis. br-win. isslejet  keIth s.d-
Imm   LI-M                -tss   ere.mtasess   y   ssllAdte.    -_esr  ss  W-ets .ly   fmer-  or * rbymiates ites by s u-doiss
ulesstm M        -arlsis       -stii ..-eIse  e.5 ss4 hyde-. ss-,                           :st..  t    ere.   54.21St ass. I thIh elisr, ms-rMts-tt        --  massts   -.d
19.      114   ..                         -      I31   i  i.   it  sm    i                       ts
bo".    ..b-                                      --mid~~~Ar~~    ts   -I55...sld  Ieruq  -rieslio,sstsis.5    ts
dttfresmisriitls .5trhssets  yrsliet meuerblilty .rdt                                54si    t  ass.A  ass,-   sis  sty -  t                             islsls.i" 5s
.ess..r .1 c    ~    s.d  Oi Cs..                                                       1k  t.mssb.oid Vet sIts LI.-ti   erss
rtttmisr.litsmsAaqtsIesertt55ste I                                                                                         rLe-  yit   sei            estla.mts-sas
j~j 0issitm  ..eumpseisss   tsjtt.sssetUsd s  tit_r.Ms.    .psr -me  testsi..eSims si-pie    samlss
I   -onw.    .   etsdser eais-t  ssdt r.sam                                                      stla.eessisns1IimserssusWrs.usrrtt   r
rsm.   Pslesis    ::!:'.umr   Ie tesly II    .  etrs  lh.                                 sanpe        i
I.Iss.i mIfeepssya it   LssesL   ams ItestIsm   pr                                    .sse1tnft               n-att   eiilsl-ssIres   .   i.
rels  mst-  eml  sd   tes  Ir  eymtansmbmtat  s  it                             asstasl~iltesssssssilt  I  1.la  slstfri.,sme
rese.  Is yretr.  st   srttitrett  515 ie   ty.. Le.-iu                          si tss t       - r , ad rest  bsIiIet   re.lty
re.  tus-       ut  55. .p.   ails s.saeli I              Fsrtittt-                     .ss             5    e =.-5, c= tter -I.se   - rer.sea  eu  sr.mu
sstcs-e. smt.tstssmlt r.asra - e.m.atet.s               - ItI  me                      rIssty          I msit-e -e,eates   esass lyIel.dse a Idrs5dhm
raisdsmusrsc-l.is,ses..eealsie. se  Irt  sns.imessms                     pts  .sadjsa   5. dtisse   me'sWIIprsLy"iresstPe
mmdsi-   C  th  usss  555.suesOsirrmsa  s ssse.uatss.ad   tesatlree   lItstms,ts  stasss  uWeItes  ty  .tsd  tersofs
es.stes   sse..It  eel e.t  ssliIt  im   s.-lst     suseirees   .'t.se   ri  s  ee  se   rrmtlssePms.
1.1  u  m.,ssts    msetslte  t   t   arsal   s  t.a                                          tsssnsesl-saS m.54Fs.- s.ue.a.es  smudr
sat... -rssssinLeslse .  ros Ilsa  mi.t  etratnt   ln.I.                  uhmmsswe ysees   s  s.  Se  yas.1supse  rrlterp   lb.m tla
ru,nlsme.ms,an.um. -  s sh  sej.e ne   eesl.*.ts  emssyt-Is    tel    tuaaum   stlnrissraIerrls   m
hesmiut  m..stm  yrite.e-ise  rsstls  i   hetsrt.sd1sk         pll  essiy  5  I  . T rse  a  ssdaeIsssss-.  mmt-
trust  ie se  tsetdssmssets  ss tsrisd utimy    im.                etateS.  r ssleds-
s.easssrisr.mgsmislsu.mmte,ussreiassesdss  stermsesse  Isssst.satsurelisyt(tttstetss.sts.detel  -isttiessmussIu ,mdst
*diai  r.a    mvii!  .tn.II md  dam.                                                        el   -Iset-sm   tteml-Useeess   shs I  tad   re-dal..
is.. resisi5sts.~ iti -at C-t.1  sd     mtt-Z                                            el   esa    mrsess  s.nlslee   L Alltp.s   eest                               -i
yauulelsirtI iumlests,i-  rhs   Lmual*isu  td.'ersshysiam   m inui  -tn-   htsa   -tsssstss  stmi
e.iume I.u  ttulr-O*lhuitae  Sayt.                                                mststadnae..  s  .sssts   d  s  es  te  rstseleesIssl
Cud   mi  aeue  bsad       e.igshth   -    .s.   t.--ass5    .tttiEt   e   st.tes   a  e   euprh.ssees
rsusu sut;  uiuu.  IPm, ed  ml ise.                                  eTasrIe. ebelee  Iteusus
Cud  t.t~ssutussesd  -aesiatt   s  saau    mel-.t                                 s saise  ee   h.s4snltet      t  tssn5s  seres5
r-,ss~me:  sd.   t.  .dis~   .s.                                                        in..1i-Il  st hessm  Petslet  etiesaliA....eetitr
1rusydtna   as  -Amr.. uuhe  .  dqssre       r i  bssI-                     s  sstre.adIsysetate  aeerttiseryese  e   I eiss
I... W, -4 I., dphlsts   m.sdrrsr  i  s  eerli  m.tises   i  s  eAl.s
rema eyms-  sesat   mas  smes.dl- a-s    as    t  ..see                             .hedtt   tit.y.r  a   ine  ls  fes                       i
.5  msum.msml  etsssesmr  se5u~. t tmltettell.iissssiClsteatai utadst rt emis et is  -                                dea   - J.n stte  e
It-         btsm  fth..  __.1 . I. . I .ushmssI ftimesh  uss  mredsasiinsttsrsStn-t   stsse
rs.uitrisss,us-s,s Lt urrWtmnssesaittcmes.tsij.hisa15
ste. I silm~e.t.m  .4  s-s..  rssltten         a Is mpmtei aet



27                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
MROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1993                                           Annual comound rate of grouth 12, constant 1972 pricesl
US9  KIn.    2                                 1972-40  1904-3
GNP AT  KARKET PRICES                           1319.0    100.0                                 3.0    -2.0
GROSS DOMESTIC INVESTMENT                       257.0      I!.5                                 7.3       -
GROSS NATIONAL SAVINGS                            78.3      5.9                                  -         -
CURRENT ACCOUINT DALANCE                       -190.9   -14.5                                    -        -
EXPORTS OF S0IS, UFS                            400.1      30.3                                 5.9   -15.2
INPORTS OF GOODS, UPS                           481.6    37.1                                   6.1   -15.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY
VALUE ADDED IN 1993
US$ KIn.     I
AGRICULTURE                                     592.0    42.0
INDUSTRY, MINING                                297.0    20.4
SERVICES                                        530.0      37.6
TOTALIJAVERAGE                                1409.0    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                              CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
CFAF billion                                          I of SDP
19BO     1991     1992     1993                        1990     1991     1992     1993
CURRENT RECEIPTS               72.9    74.8       73.7     68.9                       18.2    16.1       14.4     12.9
CURRENT EXPENDITURES           65.6     68.4      75.0     76.2                       26.4     14.7      14.7     14.2
CURRENT SURPLUS                 7.3      6.4    -1.3       -7.3                        1.9      1.4    -0.3       -1.4
tAPITAL EXPENDITURES           77.9    110.4      91.4     96.8                       19.5    23.9       17.9     16.2
OYERALL BALANCE               -70.6   -104.0    -92.7    -94.1                        17.6   -22.4    -19.1    -17.5
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                                  199O     1981     1982     19B3
(Billion CFPF Outstanding End Period)
MONEY AND IUASI-NONEY                                      77.9     94.0     P3.0     80.1
BANK CREDIT TO PUBLIC SECTOR                               -7.5     -3.0     16.3     20.7
DANK CREDIT To PRIVATE SECTOR                              89.9    102.0    110.4    113.4
(Percentages or Index Numbersl
HONEY AND QUASI-RONEY (% GOP)                              19.4     20.2     16.2     14.9
IMPLICIT GOP DEFLATOR 11990=1001                          100.0    110.0    121.2    130.9
Annual Percentage Changes in:
GDF DEFLATOR                                               10.0    10.0      10.2      6.0
BANK CREDIT TO PUBLIC SECTOR                                 -        -        -      27.0
DAW  CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR                              17.6     13.6     11.1      2.7
DATE:  1, 30:35



-28 -                                        ANNEX I
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLUNS                     Page  5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                          HERCHANDISE EXPOR1; (Average 1981-93)
1981     2992     1993
----~                            ~~                     ~~~ ~~~~ USS Iln. .
million USS
EXPORTS OF GOODS & NFS                  538.6    417.5    400.1                              LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS              56.b     14.7
IMPORTS OF GOODS & NFS                  596.9    il1.0    411.3                              URANIUM                        297.4     77.2
RESOURCE GAP                            -59.1   -196.5    -BB.7                              OTHER GOODS                     31.0      9.1
NET FACTO,I INCOME                      -91.3    -90.4    -67.2                              TOTAL                          305.D    100.0
of mhich: NLT ant. payments              65.9     71.9      52.9
NET TRANSFERS                           -43.0    -36.5    -34.9
BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT             -409.0   -320.4   -190.9
EXTERNAL DEBT IDECEMBER 31, 19031
OFFICIAL GRANT AID                      147.2    144.5    119.4                                                                    USS Iln.
NET OFFICIAL ILT BORRORIuHNG            292.9     46.3      75.1                             PUBLIC DEBT, INCL. UNDISBURSED          603.4
Disbursements                         376.0    195.0    159.6                              NONGUARANTEED PRIVATE DEBT              120.7
Amortizatian                           B3.1    149.7      93.5
TOTAL OUTSTANDING & DISBURSED           724.1
NET CREDIT FROM THE IMF                    -        -       32.3
OTHER CAPITAL (NET)                        -        -        8.9
CHAN6E IN RESERVES (increase   -        -36.9    129.6   -44.9
2
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983              36.9
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                             PUBLIC DEBT, [ICL. GUARANTEED            15.7
USs 1.00 = CFAF                         271.7    ;20.6    381.1
!DA/IBRD LENDING, AUGUST 17, 1994
USs Iln.
OUTSTAND1NG L DISBURSED                 102.5
UNDISBURSED                             106.0
TOTAL                                   210.5
DATE: 1i30/C5



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONP IN NIGER
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                               Amount (less cancellation) c/
Number     Year      Purpose                   IDA a/ b/         Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed               79.0                    -
885      1979       Livestock                 12.0                  4.6
886      1979       Feeder Roads              10.0                   2.0
967      1980       Dosso Agr. Dvt.           20.0                  17.7
1026      1980       Second Maradi Rural Dvt. 16.7                   10.9
1151      1981       Education                 21.5                   7.9
1225      1982       Industrial Development   16.0                   9.5
1226      1982       Second Forestry           10.1                   6.7
1309      1983       Water Supply               6.5                  4.9
1394      1983       Fourth Highway            23.6                  13.1
1493      1984       Economic & Financial      11.7                 10.3
Management Improvement
1511      1985       Power Eng. and T.A.        7.5                  7.1
Total                         234.6                  94.7
of which has bien repaid   (3.3)
Total now outstanding
and held by IDA            231.3
Total undisbursed                                    94.7
a/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/   Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
cl   Computed at the March 31, 1985, rate of US$0.991273=1 SDR.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMT OF IFC INVESTKENT AS OF MARCH 31, 1985
Loan                                         Amount
Number    Year    Borrower          Purpose   of Loan   Equity   Undisbursed
-(US$ Million)_
619-NIR   1982   Les Moulins        Flourmill   2.22       0.33        0.32
du Sahel S.A.
(MDS)
.
Bank Group Operationsi'NIG3



- 31 -                ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I      Timetable of Key Elements
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: two years.
(b)  Project prepared by:  SOGREAH/Louis Berger and Helios.
(c) Departure of Appraisal mission: December 1983.
(d) Completion of negotiations: May 23, 1985.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1985.
Section II     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) Farmers would be given the option of selling to RINI or to the
private sector any surplus of marketable paddy above what they
owe to their cooperatives (para 44);
(b) ONAHA would not start rehabilitation works on a given peri-
meter until it has concluded a contract, satisfactory to IDA,
with the cooperative concerned and this cooperative has
approved internal statutes that are consistent with the model
satisfactory to IDA (para 52);
(c) ONAHA would set up a unit for coordination, monitoring,
evaluation, financial planning, budgeting and budgetary
control not later than December 31, 1985, and would appoint
personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
IDA to staff the unit (para 57);
(d) ONAHA would put order in its accounts by September 30, 1986,
the date by which these accounts must be certifiable by
independent auditors (para 57);
(e) Cooperatives would be required to charge an interest rate not
less than 12% on the seasonal credits they extend to their
members (para 70);
(f) All medium-term credits would be managed by cooperatives, with
technical assistance provided by ONARA. Farmers would make a
minimum 10% down-payment and repay the rest to the
cooperatives at an annual interest rate of 12% over a period



- 32 -
ANNE III
Page 2 of 2
of a maximum of five years. Cooperatives would in turn repay
Government at an annual interest rate of 1.02 over a period of
a maximum of eight years (para 70);
(g) Cooperatives would bear the full cost of operation and
maintenance of irrigation infrastructure, including provisions
for the renewal of pumping equipment (para 73); and
(h) Government would provide adequate financing for ONAHA's
overhead expenditures for services performed on Government's
behalf, which are not covered by external  sources.   This
financing would be transferred to ONAHA on a quarterly basis
at the beginning of each quarter (para 73).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                    Total
Project
Items to Be Procured                  ICB         LCB         Other       N.A.         Cost
a/ b/_
Earthworks, structures, buildings    1.2          0.4          3.5                     5.1
and forestry plantations           (1.2)        (0.1)       (1.6)        -          (2.9)
Pumping stations                       -           -           1.6  b      -           1.6
Electric power lines                   -           -           0.7  c/     -           0.7
Construction equipment/vehicles       1.2           -          1.3        0.6  d/      3.1
(1.2)                                           (1.2)
Agricultural equipment                0.6          0.4         1.9  b       - _        2.9
(0.3)       (0.1)                               (0.4)
Local staff, training, operating       -          0.5           -         4.0          4.5
costs and misc. equipment                       (0.2)                   (1.7)       (1.9)
Expatriate staff, consultants,         -           -           4.5  e/     -           4.5
audits and studies                                          (1.4)                   (1.4)
Revolving funds for cooperatives       -           -            -          1.6         1.6
and RINI                                                                (0.5)       (0.5)
Project preparation facilities         -           -           1.2  f/     -           1.2
(1.0)                  (1.0)
Total                            3.0         1.3         14.7        6.2         25.2
(2.7)       (0.4)        (4.0)      (2.2)        (9.3)
a/   Construction by force account.
b/   Parallel-financing by CCCE and procured through procedures accept-
able to them.
c/   Financing by KfW and procured through procedures acceptable to
them.
d/   Depreciated  replacement  value  and  recouditioning  cost  of  the
Namarigoungou equipment.
e/   Expatriate staff, of which IDA finances Chief of Monitoring and
Evaluation, ONAHA (36 man-months) and Head of Financial Planning,
Budgeting and Budgetary Control Unit, ONAHA (36 man-months), CCCE
finances Chief Engineer (21 man-months) and Works Supervisor (21
man-months), both for force account works, Rice Processing expert,
RINI (24 man-months) and Administrative and Financial Director,
ONAHA (36 man-months), and KfW finances Administrative and
Financing Manager for force account works (24 man-months) and
Agriculturalist/Rice Expert (36 man-months).
fl   Including the preparation scudies financed by CCCE.



1%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.,M    A    L   1 30
/             ,r' -' -  - -
___   ,/                                                                /Abolo
.*s  *yota)
I....                                                                                                            K.rZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;..A
N   -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
I4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~IE
__ _ __ _ __ _ __  _  _  __    __    *     -      71                                                                    .      *
B U R K I NoMAL                                /   ;I"95@lb"ey \              I                      /         g  IRRIGATION   REHABILITATION
'                     / I1                           z   N Gou                         '                   PROJECT
i  \_          /              / {                   D_            /             /                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Schoffs Undw the Fropect
\,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sna No Uno / F  04nmocyintm
\  /   -\|f2es            |             ,              700               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Caolme d and m ternce
700. / *,__Udrcrrc o
~~~ >-- . _ # - v , \ r .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Not ,n  wnce
... _, . _ __ .. _._ ... / boF F \_ \ I . Flolecred~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paieie
fiA t G ER i A r        Ir                                           =\Jo                                                          .hentoylndr0
M A t              E R     t   S                                 \                        ,         t                              jO       ts 0e maIbwrto 1945-1977)
_ ,' 1^ ....o.^ ,I' HA D                                                                                 N   I G  E  R I A             c x, c 3c a, 5O.
s%--   tt   scHAD                             g  ~~~~~~B E N I N                <
N_  Yr I G  E R I A 1t3&    



