Document of
The World Bank
FM OmaAL USE ONLY
RsktNo. 12980
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1618-NIR)
APRIL 21, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be sud hv recpits only in t"e performance of
their official duties. Its contents may mot otherwi   e deslohsed without World  ank autborization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADM Valley Ader Doutchi Maggia Valley (Vallee Ader Doutchi Maggia)
BDRN         Banque de Developpement Rural de la R6publique du Niger
(National Bank of the Republic of Niger)
CFD          Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement (French Development Institution)
(ex-CCCE, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique)
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
ERR          Economic Rate of Return (Taux de croissance 6conomique)
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
FED          Fonds Europeen de D6veloppement (European Development Fund)
IDA          International Development Association
(Association Internationale pour le Developpement)
INRAN        Institut National de Recherche Agronomique du Niger
(National Agronomic Research Institute)
KfW          Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (German Aid Agency)
ONAHA        Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles (Public Irrigation Agency)
RINI         Riz du Niger (Rice Marketing Parastatal Company)
SOGREAH    Societe Grenobloise d'Hydraulique Agricole
(French Consulting Firm of Agricultural Hydraulics)
UNC          Union Nationale de Cooperatives (National Cooperative Union)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 295
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 21, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Niger
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1618-NIR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Niger - Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1618-NIR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No Part II was prepared by
the Borrower. The project was cofinanced by CFD and KfW, and representatives of both
agencies participated in the Project Completion mission.
The project was intended to rehabilitate and improve the productivity of 16 irrigation
perimeters totalling about 3,000 hectares, through physical improvements and strengthening of
support institutions. Works were completed under budget and the physical targets were exceeded.
Cropping intensity reached 200 percent and an average yield of 5 tons of rice per crop was
achieved (30 percent above appraisal estimate). The re-estimated ERR was 37 percent, compared
to the appraisal estimate of 18 percent. The institutional development impact of the project, on
the other hand, is rated as negligible. Political turmoil and a deteriorating extemal environment
resulted in delays in provision of counterpart funds and managerial changes in the implementing
agency. As a result, its capacity to provide support services has been gravely weakened. The
financial viability of farmer groups, responsible for management of individual perimeters and for
primary marketing, has also been jeopardized. Hence, sustainability is rated as uncertain and the
project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. No
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLElON REPORT
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJEC
(CREDIT 1618-NIR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE    .         .............................................                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                                ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
A. Project Identity .1
B. Project Background .1
C. Project Objectives and Description.                                                    2
D. Project Results.                                                                        3
E. Project Sustainability.                                                                 8
F.  Project Strengths and Weaknesses: Lessons Learned ................                     9
G.  Conclusions: Summary of Lessons Learned  .....................                        12
PART II  - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                           ......    13
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................                                  14
1.  Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits  ..........           ..       .............      14
2.  Project Timetable ......       .............            ...................           15
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements ..... ..             .......     16
4.  Project Costs and Financing  .............          ..        ................        17
A. Project Costs  ...................................                            17
B. Project Financing .................................                           17
5.  Status of Covenants  ....................................                            18
6.  Use of Bank Resources  ..............            ..       ..................         20
A. Staff Inputs .....................................                            20
B. Missions  ......................................                              21
7. Ex-Post Economic Returns ..............            ..        .................        23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1618-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project in
Niger, for which Credit 1618-NIR in the amount of SDR 9.6 million was approved on June 25, 1985.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991, one year behind schedule. The final disbursement was
made on December 31, 1992, on an exceptional basis in order to permit payment for the final audit of
the Project accounts. SDR 9.29 million of the Credit amount was disbursed and the undisbursed balance
of about SDR 308,000 was cancelled. This represents only a partial cancellation of Cr. 1618-NIR as
currently CFAF 103,936,525 (equivalent to about SDR 272,500) remains frozen at the defunct BDRN.
Tlhe cancelled amount would change when the issue of the Special Account recovery is resolved.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Sahel Department
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). In April 1992, the Bank requested the Borrower to
prepare Part II, but no reply was received.
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.






-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
IRGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1618 -NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PLJect Objectives
L.           The main objectives of the Project were to promote farmers' self-reliance in management
of irrigation schemes in Niger in order to ensure the sustainability of investments, reduce Government's
recurrent costs, increase production and increase farm incomes. The Project also aimed at developing
an adequate institutional framework for future irrigation development by: (a) improving administrative
and financial management of the public irrigation agency, the Office National des Ambnagements hydro-
Agricoles (ONAHA) and strengthening its implementation capacity, and (b) transforming the rice
marketing parastatal, Riz du Niger (RINI), into a more efficient and financially viable agency by providing
financial and managerial assistance.
ImDlementation ExDerience
ii.          The Project was appraised in November 1983. The Credit became effective in May 1986,
after a delay of about four months from the planned effectiveness date. The long-time lag between
appraisal and effectiveness was due largely to the length of time it had taken the Government to comply
fully with the conditions for negotiations. The physical components were successfully implemented and
the realized cropping intensity of 200% along the Niger Valley and rice yields of 5 t/ha per season in all
the perimeters surpassed appraisal estimates (para. 9). The implementation experience with respect to
the institutional component was mixed. During the first four years (1986-1990), the overall quality of
project management and implementation performance of this component was satisfactory. During the last
two years of the Project implementation period, however, both project management and performance of
the institutional component began to deteriorate. Consequently, ONAHA's effectiveness in managing the
Project declined precipitously (paras. 15-17); RINI's financial situation worsened, thereby undermining
its capability to market surplus rice production (paras. 19-20); and the autonomy and financial viability
of the cooperatives were seriously jeopardized (paras. 12-13).
iii.         Successful implementation of the physical components may be attributed largely to
generalized successful adoption of adequate technological packages, including, improved cultural practices
and strict adherence to the cropping calendar; easy accessibility of inputs and services through a well-
managed cooperative credit program; substantial project preparation, appraisal and supervision efforts
(para. 29); and effective donor coordination in the planning and execution of the annual work program
and budget of ONAHA and annual multi-donor supervision missions (para. 36).



-iv-
iv.           Factors responsible for unsatisfactory institutional performance included weak Government
commitment to the principles of cooperative autonomy and self-management (para. 13); sudden removal
of the project director; and almost wholesale departure of the foreign technical assistance team;
insufficient and incoherent Government commitment to this component as demonstrated by Government
failure to provide the agreed state budgetary support to ONAHA for services of a public goods nature
(paras. 16 and 32) and inability to release ONAHA and cooperative funds frozen at the defunct state
development bank (BDRN); unfavorable macroeconomic policies (para. 20); and slippage in rice
marketing reform.
Results
v.            The Project successfully achieved its physical targets. All Project rehabilitation works
have been achieved at a per hectare cost-underrun of 23 % compared to appraisal estimates and a cropping
intensity of 200% was achieved in all the perimeters in the Niger Valley. The ex-post rice yields of
5 t/ha per season in all the rice perimeters almost doubled appraisal estimates and are among the highest
in Africa and Asia. Irrigated area and crops also exceeded appraisal estimates by a large margin. The
incremental production of food crops made possible by these achievements in turn have led to substantial
improvements in the incomes and general welfare of the population in the Project area, thereby achieving
a major project objective. The ex-post economic rate of return (ERR), estimated at 37% for the entire
Project, more than doubled the ex-ante ERR of 18%.
vi.           With regards to the institutional objectives, implementation was mixed. During the first
four years of Project implementation, the cooperatives demonstrated their willingness and potential to
manage the resources put at their disposal as well as their on-farm activities.  They organized input
distribution and primary marketing, undertook regular maintenance of their irrigated farms, distributed
credit among their members, contributed to ONAHA's operating costs for extension support and
maintenance on electro-mechanical equipment and installations, and hired their own staff to manage their
accounts and to assist with some of their operations. They achieved a 100% cost recovery rate with
respect to credit and operation and maintenance costs during this period (para. 11). Since 1990, however,
it became evident that these achievements were being seriously undermined by lack of Government
commitment to the underlying principle of cooperative autonomy. Cost recovery rates began to decline
precipitously and cooperative members in default on their loans went unsanctioned; the resulting free-rider
syndrome precipitated a gradual erosion of interest and financial discipline among the members who
would otherwise normally comply with their contractual obligations (para. 12). The objective of
strengthening the public rice marketing agency, Riz du Niger (RINI) was only partially achieved. The
overall quality of RINI's management improved as well as its capability to market the farmers' surplus
rice and to process paddy for sale in the domestic market. This good performance could not be sustained,
however. In 1990, RINI's financial situation began to deteriorate, forcing it to resort to borrowing from
cooperative savings to finance primary marketing, and to close its three principal paddy processing plants
in September 1991 (para. 18).
vii.          With regards to ONAHA, the Project has succeeded in building capacity in construction
of new irrigation and rehabilitation works and in maintenance of irrigation systems. Its contributions to
the strengthening of ONAHA's capability in executing these and other project activities in a cost-efficient
and sustainable manner were, however, placed in jeopardy with the slippage in management performance
encountered since early 1990 (paras. 14 and 15). As in the before-Project situation, ONAHA began to
accumulate substantial budget deficits during the last two years of the Project, attributable in large part
to the Government's inability to provide budget support to finance the non-incremental overhead costs



_v
for ONAHA's public service functions, as provided for in the Development Credit Agreement. The
results also indicate quite clearly that ONAHA could not have performed its tasks without substantial
external funding.
Project Sustainability
viii.        It has become clear during the implementation of this Project that the institutional
determinants of sustainability should have been more carefully examined and incorporated from the outset
in the Project design. The considerable progress made in the first four years towards establishing a sound
basis for sustainability was severely undermined by the replacement of the first project director, who was
very competent and effective, and the lack of Government commitment to project objectives. It would
take a major restructuring of ONAHA to enable it to provide services at full cost to irrigation clients,
including the public service, on a sustainable basis. Such restructuring was never envisaged in project
design. Instead, the Bank assumed that ONAHA could be transformed into a viable and sustainable
public irrigation agency simply by strengthening its preexisting structure through training and financing
of its incremental staff and part of its operating expenses. Sustainability of the cooperative development
strategy would require strong Government commitment and legislative action permitting empowerment
of grassroots organizations; a strong training program on cooperative skills development, functional
literacy and technical skills as well as a long-term commitment (20 years or more) to such institution-
building objectives. The Credit closing date was extended by one year to permit implementation of the
staff training program of ONAHA, and the Project had also commissioned a consultant study, financed
by the Caisse FranSaise de Developpement (CFD-formerly known as the CCCE), on reform of ONAHA
and the Cooperatives. The consultant report, which was submitted to the Government in December 1991,
contains proposals of the measures which need to be put in place in order to ensure sustainability and
efficient use of the potential in these two institutions (para. 24).  The Government expects the
cooperatives to assume full responsibility for primary marketing of paddy from the bankrupt rice
parastatal, RINI. It is also discussing a consultant report on RINI, with a view to designing and
implementing an action plan for privatization of RINI's paddy processing mills. The Bank should support
meaningful reform of these key institutions (especially ONAHA and the irrigation cooperatives) in order
to assure sustainability of project benefits and the substantial investments in these public perimeters.
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.           The overall performance of this Project is considered to be satisfactory, in large part,
because it improved farm incomes and contributed significantly to alleviation of rural poverty. All of
the Project's physical targets have been successfully achieved, which made it possible for the beneficiaries
to obtain substantial incremental food crop production. Rural income and welfare has significantly
improved as a result of the Project's direct and indirect employment effects and Niger's food security has
also been enhanced. However, the strong performance of the institutional component experienced during
the first four years of the Project could not be sustained during the remaining two years, primarily
because changing circumstances, such as the deterioration in the institutional environment and Niger's
macroeconomic situation, made it extremely difficult to implement this component according to plan.
Sustainability of the Project's achievements would thus require long-term commitment to institution-
building objectives in the subsector, including (a) continuation of support to a strong cooperative
development program; (b) major restructuring of ONAHA, including substantial reductions in its work
force (to a maximum of 100 staff) and operating costs, elimination of the force account contracting; and
(c) improvements in rice marketing and pricing policies. The lessons to be learned relate primarily to



-vi-
the design of the Project's institutional arrangements, and virtually all these could be applied in the design
and implementation of other projects in the productive sectors of the economy.
x.            First, a top heavy approach to cooperative development (i.e., one centered around
preexisting state structures) cannot lead to cooperative autonomy, in part because it perpetuates continuous
state intervention in cooperative affairs and partly because it accentuates the common errors in group
formation, such as, vague group objectives, non-definition of members' obligations, undefined
responsibilities and absence of sanctions and accountability. A more imaginative strategy is to empower
farmers and other economic agents to form independent economic interest groups or associations, thereby
constituting an adequate framework for beneficiary participation in a project. Appropriate measures
should be taken to insulate these groups from governmental control and influence. This approach has
been incorporated in the design of the follow-up private irrigation project.
xi.           Second, the experience shows that a good project management is the key to satisfactory
execution of a project. This can be achieved either through prior clear agreement with the Borrower on
the terms and conditions for hiring and "firing" key project staff or through adequate safeguards against
governmental interference in day-to-day project implementation. The Private Irrigation project currently
under preparation is trying to achieve the above objective by creating a private project management
agency that will be completely insulated from Government interference.
xii.          Third, the objective of providing adequate and sustainable institutional framework for
implementing projects in countries with limited capacity are more likely to be achieved when it is pursued
in the context of a longer-term commitment to institution-building than through a project of limited time
frame.
xiii.         Fourth, a narrow focus on strengthening semi-autonomous project management units
provides an unsound base for continuing project-financed activities after the reduction or withdrawal of
donor support. The experience from this Project underscores the need to entrust management of similar
operations to fully autonomous agencies and grass roots organizations. This lesson has also been adapted
to the design of the private irrigation project.
xiv.          Fifth, Borrower commitment to Project objectives as well as ability to respect such
commitments should be closely monitored during Project implementation. Any indication of wavering
on this commitment should cause the Bank to call the Project into question, and to promptly take
corrective measures as appropriate.
xv.           Sixth, the Bank should ensure: (a) consistency of approaches to Technical Assistance (TA)
and if such inconsistencies should emerge during Project implementation, the Bank should act decisively
to resolve these; and (b) that the terms of reference for TAs should include explicit statements requiring
the TA program to contribute to training of local counterparts and other capacity-enhancing activities to
facilitate transfer of know-how.
c:\do\niger\pcr161 8\maintcxt



PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
NIGER
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1618-NIR)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identiy
Name                             Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Credit Number                    1618-NIR
RVP Unit                         Africa V
Country                          Niger
Sector                           Agriculture
B. Proiect Backeround
Sector Background and Development Strategy
1.           Less than 10% of Niger's 1.27 million km2 is suitable for crop cultivation. Even in the
cultivable areas, highly variable and declining rainfall (only 11 % of the country receives more than 350
mm of rainfall) in addition to frequent drought cycles make rainfed agriculture an extremely risky
enterprise. The contribution of the irrigation subsector to national agricultural production is limited, with
irrigated lands representing less than I % of the total cultivated area. Food production, comprising 80-
85% of total agricultural production in any given year, has been in decline since the severe droughts of
the 1970s. At the start of Project preparation in early 1982, the Government had already launched an
agricultural sector strategy aimed at achieving food security through exploitation of the potential of
rainfed and irrigated agriculture. In rainfed agriculture, the Government strategy has been to set up area
"productivity projects" which aim at providing smallholder farmers with improved extension, input
supply, credit and marketing. The performance of these projects was disappointing due to adverse
weather conditions and lack of appropriate technical packages.
2.           In irrigation, the Government's strategy was to develop about 1,000 ha of irrigated land
annually through the creation of the Office National des Ananagements Hydro-Agricoles (ONAHA),
which was to integrate and strengthen construction and management activities associated with irrigation
schemes; to introduce a variety of crops other than rice; and to apply modem technology to the irrigation
schemes, and improved methods to the rainfed holdings of Project participants. The importance of
improving maintenance of irrigation schemes and full cost recovery was recognized at the Zinder Seminar
held in November 1982, and self-management of these schemes by cooperatives was adopted as
Government policy. The Bank supported this strategy with the Namarigoungou Irrigation Project (Cr.
851 NIR), which started in early 1980. The irrigation scheme allowed for full water control. It
comprised a perimeter dike, two pumping stations for irrigation and drainage, complete irrigation and
drainage systems, and land levelling. As such, it was an intensive, relatively sophisticated scheme which
proved costly to construct and which incurred high operating and maintenance costs. Although this
project was economically unprofitable (ERR of 3%) it contributed to significant increases in rice output



- 2 -
and yields. It also provided useful lessons for future irrigation development, including: (a) the setting
up of two well-functioning cooperatives; (b) the successful introduction of animal traction and foot-
operated threshing machines; (c) a good record of cost recovery; and (d) effective seed multiplication at
the on-farm level.
3.            At the Government's request, IDA and the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD)
financed a comprehensive study of the rehabilitation of the irrigation subsector, with a view to designing
a project which would draw from the lessons of the Namarigoungou Project, and provide further
experience in particular with regard to cooperative self-management of irrigation schemes and the role
of ONAHA in irrigation development and monitoring. The project was expected to provide Government
and IDA with important information which would be most valuable for the preparation of future
investment projects in the irrigation subsector.
C. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
4.            The principal Project objectives were: (a) to promote farmers' self-reliance in management
of irrigation schemes, to ensure the sustainability of the irrigation schemes, and to increase production
of paddy, cotton, sorghum and other crops, thus improving farm incomes; and (b) to develop an
institutional framework for future irrigation development by ensuring extensive participation of
cooperatives/farmers in operating and managing perimeters, setting up an efficient cost recovery
mechanism, involving the private sector in maintaining pumping equipment, strengthening ONAHA, and
reinforcing the rice parastatal's (RINI) rice processing and marketing capacity.
5.            Specifically, the Project's objectives can be grouped under two main areas, namely,
financial/technical and institutional. The technical objectives were the following: (a) rehabilitation of
infrastructure and equipment on 16 perimeters; generalization of the practice of rice double cropping in
the Project area of the Niger Valley; and increase in water availability for the dry season crops and
extension of the useful life of the reservoirs in the Ader Doutchi Maggia (ADM) Valley; and (b) crop
intensification, in order to raise the average paddy yield by about 1.2 t/ha/crop on the 2,200 hectares of
rice perimeters to be rehabilitated, and to consolidate the performance of the Namarigoungou and Say
perimeters (1,650 ha).  From  an institutional perspective the objectives were:  (a) assistance to
cooperatives to promote self-management on 18 perimeters; (b) strengthening ONAHA and of the public
rice marketing and processing agency, the SocieS Riz du Niger (RINI).
6.            The Project was planned to cover 11 perimeters in the Niger Valley, totalling about 2,200
ha, and five in the ADM Valley, totalling about 850 ha. It was to be implemented over a five-year
period, with ONAHA as the lead agency. Its financing of US$25.2 million was derived from four
sources: Government and beneficiaries (11I%), IDA (37%), CFD (37%), and the Federal Republic of
Germany, KfW (15%).
Project Components
7.            The total Project cost at appraisal of US$25.2 million was allocated among the six
components in the following manner:  rehabilitation works (38%); crop intensification, including
promotion of animal traction (10%); assistance to cooperatives (13%); adaptive research and seed



- 3 -
multiplication (2%); strengthening of ONAHA, including setting up a monitoring and evaluation unit
(12%); strengthening of RINI (5%); and contingencies account for 15% of total costs. Under these
components, the following items and activities were financed:
(a)    Rehabilitation works. In the Niger Valley, replacement of all diesel-driven pumping units
with electric ones and repair of diesel pumps as back-ups in case of power failure and in
the ADM Valley, rehabilitation of catchment dams;
(b)    Crop intensification.    Agronomic packages for rice, including a simple seed
multiplication scheme; upgrading application rates of fertilizer on rice to yield
incremental value of production greater than the existing level; 2,000 pairs of draft
animals, with matching equipment and 1,500 pedal threshers to provide one set of farm
equipment for every 2 ha of irrigated rice perimeter; village extension workers at a ratio
of one extension worker to about 200 ha;
(c)    Maintenance. Cost of private-sector subcontracting for the maintenance of pumping
equipment by ONAHA, of heavy equipment used to maintain irrigation and drainage
canals and dikes, and of creation of two brigades attached to the regional offices at
Niamey and Tillabery;
(d)    Assistance to cooperatives.  Functional literacy and numeracy program; cost of
purchasing collective equipment and of applying recommended intensification packages,
and of prefinancing collective charges for operating irrigation perimeters;
(e)    Adaptive research and foundation seeds production. Cost of subcontracting certain
activities to the National Agricultural Research Institute (INRAN), including fertilizer
trials on representative sites, screening of new rice varieties intended for future extension
activities, and production of rice foundation seed to be multiplied by cooperatives;
(f)    Strengthening of ONAHA. Financing for incremental staff, office equipment, vehicles
and operating expenses at ONAHA's headquarters, involving a new unit for coordination,
monitoring, evaluation, financial planning, budgeting and budgetary control;
(g)    Strengthening of RINI.  Cost of additional storage capacity, weighing equipment,
technical assistance and an increase of RINI's permanent funds to purchase 3,000 t of
paddy each season from its own resources, and a feasibility study of husk combustion as
an alternative to diesel engines for the operation of rice mills.
D. Project Results
8.           Physical Progress.  The Loan became effective May 1, 1986.  During Project
implementation there were no major delays in procurement and disbursement. However, rehabilitation
works at Ibohamane Dam were delayed due to a contract default by the contractor GCnie Civil du Sahel;
works began December 15, 1987, after 19 months of delay. And on the disbursement side, there was
a suspension of disbursements against SOEs from August to December 1988 because of a delay in the
preparation of the Project audit report. In addition, during implementation a complaint was lodged by
the Bank, in vain, that the Project was top-heavy with technical assistants. Credit closing date was



- 4 -
extended by one year to December 31, 1991, to complete certain Project activities, including
implementation of the staff training program for ONAHA prepared by the consulting firm of BDPA-
SCET AGRI in December 1990 and audit of Project accounts.
9.           Technical/Financial Results. With regard to technical and financial objectives, the Project
has performed satisfactorily. Rehabilitation works were fully completed, and actual rehabilitation costs
averaged CFAF 586,000 per hectare (without technical assistance costs), which is about 23 % lower than
appraisal estimates. The evolution of cultivated areas also increased modestly from 4,688 ha to 4,873
ha at full development. Although there were seasons of decline, cropping intensity stabilized at 200%,
and double cropping is now a general practice in almost all perimeters. Paddy yields of 5 t/ha during
the rainy and dry seasons are very high compared to the performance of irrigated rice in most irrigated
areas in Africa and Asia. These achievements were made possible by generalized adoption of the
intensification package introduced under this Project, better management of the perimeters and better
organization of and extension support to production activities compared to the past.
10.          Institution-buildingResults. Interestingly, the previous project in the irrigation subsector,
the Namarigoungou Project, performed well institutionally but less-than-satisfactorily technically and
financially. In the instance of the current Project, the converse was true. This is demonstrated by the
mixed performance of the key institutions: namely, the cooperatives, ONAHA, and RINI.
11.          Cooperatives. One clear achievement of the cooperative development component was that
all the direct maintenance and operating costs for irrigation, including energy, maintenance of
infrastructure and pumps, replacement of pumps and salaries of perimeter managers were borne by the
cooperatives. Rate of cost recovery on these services and on credit was 100% during the first four years
of the Project. Despite the difficulties encountered subsequent to the freezing of cooperative funds in the
now defunct BDRN, the majority of the cooperatives maintained this exemplary rate of cost recovery as
of Credit closing date. This demonstration of financial autonomy of the cooperatives represents
successful replication of the lessons learned under the Namarigoungou Project (Cr. 851-NIR), whereby
the cooperatives cum water users' associations used own-resources to auto-finance virtually all of their
activities. Another important achievement was that a few cooperative officials have acquired valuable
knowledge and experience on the principles of cooperative management, which should become useful in
similar activities in the future. Furthermore, most of the cooperatives now have properly functioning
accounting systems in place, staffed by accounting officers recruited and paid for by the cooperatives
themselves. The generalized use of video programs on participation plus literacy training financed by
the Project have contributed to improved motivation and awareness among a few cooperative societies.
12.          However, the experience since early 1990 shows that some of the above successful
achievements were fragile at best, and hence unsustainable. The first important reversal of these
institutions' performance record became apparent during the latter part of 1990, with the sharp
deterioration of the financial situation of a large number of cooperatives due primarily to the freezing of
more than CFAF 600 million of cooperative funds in the State Development Bank (BDRN) and the lack
of financial discipline. A few cooperative members began to default on cooperative loans. In sorne
instances, defaulting members were not subject to any form of sanctions, thereby undermining the
viability of the credit program and precipitating gradual erosion of member-confidence and interest in the
cooperative organization.  Other problems encountered by the cooperatives include (a) constant
Government interference either through ONAHA or the National Cooperative Union (UNC), which
severely limited their autonomy, (b) limited capacity to evaluate ONAHA's performance with respect to
delivery of contracted services and, for the vast majority of the 20,000-member strong irrigation



- 5 -
cooperatives, limited comprehension of the contractual arrangements between the Government and their
organization; and (c) frequent uncertainties about rice marketing possibilities. The final multi-donor
supervision mission of November 1991 noted an apparent lack of Government resolve to implement the
recommendations of past missions for redressing the above problems, and admitted that the Project's
primary objective of transforming the cooperatives into self-managed and fully autonomous structures was
far from being achieved.
13.          Unsatisfactory performance of the cooperatives component in the last two years of the
project may in large part be explained by insufficient Government commitment to the principles of
cooperative autonomy and self-management, which were the key building blocks of this component. To
begin with, the institutional structure of the cooperatives consisted not of indigenous grassroots
associations set up by their own members but quasi-governmental creations incorporated into a centralized
hierarchical organization, the National Cooperative Union (UNC). The Cooperative Statute which was
designed to decentralize and transfer full autonomy to rural organizations was never enforced. It is
evident that cooperative self-management could not be effectively promoted under such an institutional
environment. Second, the Government pursued certain policies which were prejudicial to cooperative
autonomy. These policies included (a) the exemption of transit rice from the tariff on imported rice
which was imposed on rice destined for the domestic market; (b) lowering rice producer prices in order
to protect RINI; (c) freezing of cooperative funds, estimated at CFAF 620 million, in the BDRN; (d) ad-
hoc approach to setting levels of rice producer prices; and (e) undue pressure to use cooperative savings,
on loan to RINI, to finance primary marketing. Finally, ONAHA was entrusted with providing
management and accountancy training to cooperative officials, coordination of the literacy and numeracy
programs for cooperative members as well as ensuring enforcement of contracts and statutes while at the
same time responsible for overall management of the public irrigation schemes.
14.          ONAHA.  The Project and ONAHA  were well managed during much of the
implementation period. A strong team of technical assistants was responsible for executing the studies,
for supervising the rehabilitation works, for reorganizing the financial and accounting management system
of ONAHA, and for establishing a strong monitoring and evaluation system. Except for a few design
problems on a limited number of irrigation and drainage canals, rehabilitation works were generally of
excellent quality, permitting year-round exploitation of the rehabilitated perimeters. Similarly, the
electro-mechanical maintenance brigade provided systematic maintenance services to keep the pumping
stations in good working conditions at all times. On the other hand, the brigade responsible for
maintenance on irrigation works and systems performed unsatisfactorily in maintenance of many of the
perimeters. Although flawed in certain respects, especially in terms of resource and supervisory input,
ONAHA's support to the cooperatives was critical in ensuring cooperative involvement in Project
activities. The impact of this support on cooperative autonomy was positive despite state intrusion in
cooperative affairs, which to a great extent stifled the development of self-management capacity within
the cooperative organization. A major contributing factor to good management performance, albeit only
for the first four years of the Project, was the substantial input of long-term technical assistant and strong
and effective leadership provided by the first director of the Project, who was removed by the
Government in 1990 without prior consultation with the project's financiers.
15.          These achievements notwithstanding, the principal Project objective of strengthening
ONAHA in order to execute its lead role in providing technical support to the perimeters efficiently and
in a sustainable manner has not been achieved. Failure to realize this goal derived largely from the
deterioration in ONAHA's finances since 1990, but other factors related to inadequate Government
commitment and institutional weaknesses within ONAHA itself have greatly contributed as well.



- 6 -
16.          Starting from fiscal year 1989/90, ONAHA's financial and accounting situation began to
worsen. Operating losses that year alone amounted to CFAF 544 million. By Credit closing date in
December 1990, ONAHA was in as deep a financial crisis as it was during the before-Project period.
This situation stems largely from the Government's inability to provide the expected annual budget
support to finance part of the recurrent costs and the non-incremental overhead costs for services rendered
on behalf of the State (under ONAHA's public service functions). Unjustified increases in ONAHA's
staff, which sharply increased this agency's rising operating costs for each of its functions, also
contributed to the chronic financial problems. In addition, the quality of services in support of
maintenance of irrigation perimeters and cooperatives development began to deteriorate around the same
period as did ONAHA's effectiveness in overall Project management. This slippage in performance may
be attributed to the following reasons. First, ONAHA was simply overwhelmed by the enormous scope
of its mission. It had primary responsibility for executing the Government's subsector development
strategy; managing and supervising activities in 12,000 ha of irrigation perimeters (total investment costs
in the public irrigation schemes is estimated at CFAF 60 billion) ranging from a minimum size of 50 ha
to a maximum of 2,500 ha, with 75% of the perimeters averaging 100 ha in area; coordinating all donor
interventions in subsector activities; and acting as implementing agency of this Project. Given Niger's
low absorptive capacity, and the grossly inadequate skilled manpower within ONAHA, it was virtually
impossible to properly execute this mission without heavy dependence on technical assistance. Wholesale
withdrawal of the expatriate support towards the Project completion date created a vacuum that could not
be filled by Nigeriens, as little attention and resources were devoted to training of staff. It also exposed
the fragility of ONAHA's management. The Bank had consistently objected to the large Technical
Assistance support unilaterally deployed by other donors, especially the European Development Fund on
the grounds that it was unnecessary and inimical to capacity-building. These objections, however, fell
on deaf ears. Subsequent slippage in the quality of project management especially after the withdrawal
of the Technical Assistance Team, confirmed the Bank's worst fears. The Bank should in future ensure
that the Technical Assistants in Bank-financed projects be required to contribute to training of local
counterparts and capacity-building in general. In addition, the Bank should respond strongly to parallel
activities under bilateral arrangements which are potentially detrimental to the achievement of project
objectives. Such a response should include suspension of disbursements on the concerned component.
17.          The process of democratic change which precipitated these events resulted in temporary
paralysis of the public administration. The Project director was removed following a cabinet reshuffle
during this period. One outcome of this decision was the absence of effective leadership and the resulting
lack of work discipline among the ONAHA staff. Another was the gradual erosion of donor confidence
in the Government's commitment to the Project.
18.          RINI. The main Project objective here was to make RINI operate efficiently and
financially viable in primary marketing and processing of the incremental paddy production of the
irrigation cooperatives.  After some initial improvements in management performance, thanks to
expatriate managerial assistance, RINI also began to encounter serious financial difficulties after the first
two years of Project execution. The Government's previous attempts to ensure its viability through
protection, including imposition of rice import quotas (prelevement obligatoire) and implicit producer
taxation policy, with the appropriated revenues going mainly as subsidies to RINI, failed to have their
intended effects. It became apparent by the Project completion date that the above objective was not
successfully achieved, with the notable exception of the overall quality of management, which has greatly
improved compared to the before-Project situation.



- 7 -
19.          As its finances worsened with effect from mid-1989, RINI began to find it increasingly
difficult to finance even its minimum marketing obligations of 3,000 t of paddy from its own resources.
Commercial banks refused to provide the necessary finance for the 1990/91 campaign due to RINI's low
credit rating, forcing RINI to borrow from the cooperatives some CFAF 250 million to fund its primary
marketing activities for this period.  By September 1991, RINI's deteriorating financial situation
combined with the perennial problem of paddy processing capacity under-utilization and rising processing
costs (prLx de revient) to force the closure of its principal paddy processing plants in Tillabery, Niamey
and Kollo.
20.           The reasons for poor performance of the RINI component have to do with unfavorable
macroeconomic environment as well as insufficient Government commitment. The former is with respect
to trade and fiscal policies which adversely affected producer incentives, such as depressed producer
prices through producer pricing and taxation policy; exemption of transit rice from the tariff levied on
import rice destined for the local market; and lack of a coherent rice producer price policy and automatic
tax adjustment mechanism to protect domestic rice production from the violent fluctuations in international
rice prices. The latter relates to Government insensitivity to the rice sector's difficulties and inability to
implement the measures recommended by previous multi-donor supervision missions intended to improve
the incentive structure of the rice subsector and to lay the basis for sustainability of the substantial public
investments in large-scale irrigation development.
21.           Welfare mp.act. The direct benefits of this Project, in terms of incremental crop
production, increased incomes, and enhanced food security, surpassed the appraisal estimates by far.
Average rice yields of 5.2 t/ha/season at full development, using only 5% more area than anticipated,
exceed the estimate at appraisal by 135%. Appraisal estimates of millet yields of about 1.6 t/ha were
exceeded by about 104%. Average sorghum yields of 1.6 t/ha represent about 99% of the appraisal
estimates. The value of the incremental production of rice at full development of CFAF 1.5 billion was
significantly higher than the appraisal estimate of CFAF 952 million, the former exceeding the latter by
57%. The impact of these results on rural welfare are two-fold. First, Niger saved CFAF 1.5 billion
in foreign exchange by producing 23,772 t more rice (or approximately 50% of annual rice imports)
through import substitution production. Second, the generalized adoption of the crop intensification
package under more secured conditions helped reduce the country's dependence on food imports,
relatively stabilized food production and increased per capita food availability. In terms of farmer
incomes, the Project has generated direct benefits for 20,000 farm households or 80,000 people in the
Project areas. Direct employment for additional labor has been generated, through the Project-financed
agro-processing and other village micro-enterprise activities. In several rural families have benefitted
from the indirect employment generated by the Project due to increased demand for marketing,
transportation, processing and equipment repairs and servicing. These employment effects significantly
alleviated high rural unemployment and underemployment as well as substantially reduced rural poverty.
Total value added, estimated at CFAF 4.25 billion, was more than double appraisal estimates of
CFAF 1.97 billion.
22.           The estimated ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) of 37% is significantly higher than
the ex-ante ERR of 18% for the entire Project, primarily as a result of substantially higher crop yields
than projected and the generalized practice of double cropping.



- 8 -
E. Project Sustainability
23.          It has become clear during the implementation of this Project that the institutional
determinants of sustainability should have been more carefully examined and incorporated from the outset
in the Project design. The considerable progress made in the first four years towards establishing a sound
basis for sustainability was severely undermined by the replacement of the first project director, who was
very competent and effective, and the lack of Government commitment to project objectives. In addition,
the Bank may have been optimistic in expecting achievement of these objectives in only 5 years.
Experience has shown that it would take a much longer period of sustained support to institution-building
in order to realize such complex institutional goals. The Credit closing date was extended by one year
to December 31, 1991, to complete activities designed to improve the institutional environment for
Project sustainability, including training of ONAHA staff and cooperative managers to assume
responsibilities of technical assistance once the Project closed and to audit the accounts of the
cooperatives. However, these measures fell far too short to provide an adequate institutional framework
for sustainability. The underlying reason is that the entire approach to institution-building was top heavy,
with a narrow focus on strengthening rather than restructuring the public service agencies in the
subsector. ONAHA's persistent chronic financial difficulties, partly caused by lack of counterpart
financing, coupled with heavy reliance on technical assistance, confirm that entrusting implementation
of such a complex project to an overstaffed enclave project management structure is also not viable as
it isolates this unit from key governmental services and makes it almost totally dependent on external
financial and skilled manpower resources. In addition, sustainability of the irrigation schemes was
heavily dependent on maintaining cooperative self-reliance and autonomy in operating and managing these
schemes. The lack of success in maintaining the earlier (1986-90) satisfactory, albeit slow, progress
towards achieving this principal Project objective illustrates a case of missed opportunity to fully exploit
the cooperatives' potential to properly utilize the resources put at their disposal and for self-management.
Realizing this potential would require strong Government commitment and legislative action on
empowerment of grassroots organizations as well as a strong independently administered training program
on cooperative skills development, functional literacy and numeracy and technical skills development.
24.           Several measures have been taken to ensure sustainability of the activities that have been
financed under this Project. First, the Government has recently shifted its approach to irrigation
development from large-scale public schemes to one based on promotion of privately-owned and managed
small-scale schemes, using simple, low-cost technologies. The Bank is supporting this strategy through
the Private Irrigation Project, which is under preparation. Second, the Project commissioned a consultant
study, with CFD financing, on reform of ONAHA and the Cooperative organization. The consultant
report, which was submitted to the Government in December 1991, contained proposals of certain
measures that would ensure sustainability and efficient use of the potential in these two institutions,
including (a) clear definition of the obligations and responsibilities of both ONAHA and the cooperatives
for operating and managing the public investments put at their disposal, providing adequate means to
carry out their respective tasks and enforcing accountability and credible sanctions; (b) setting a timetable
for transferring responsibility of management of the perimeters to a restructured irrigation cooperative
organization; (c) clear legal and operational separation of ONAHA's public service functions from its
commercial functions; and (d) reduction of ONAHA's staff and operating expenses. Third, the
Government is committed to privatization of RINI, and has recently undertaken a consultant study, with
financing of the European Development Fund (FED), on how to proceed with implementation of this
stated policy. The findings of this study will be discussed with the Bank.



- 9 -
F. Project Strengths and Weaknesses : Lessons Learned
25.          This part of the report first reviews the design and implementation of the main
components of the Project and then examines lessons learned. Because of its importance, the joint
Government-multidonor annual Project supervision mission is briefly examined as a component.
The Project Design and ImpIementation Prooess
26.          The Project Design Process. Project design benefitted from substantial preparation,
consisting of a joint Bank-CFD-financed comprehensive study on the rehabilitation of the irrigation
subsector, starting in February 1982. This study was carried out by the consulting firm SOGREAH/Louis
Berger and Helios, and included (a) a thorough analysis of the subsector and identification of technical,
institutional and sociological constraints on performance; (b) a topographic survey of the existing
irrigation and drainage networks, retention dams and flood control works, preparation of engineering
designs for the bidding and construction stage, and guidelines for institution-building; (c) a feasibility
study for the proposed Project, which was followed by a Bank appraisal mission in November/December
1983; and (d) additional field engineering studies and the preparation of bidding documents immediately
following appraisal. The study's findings were reviewed in the Bank and discussed with the Government
during several preparation missions. Project design also drew from lessons learned from the first Bank-
financed Irrigation Project (Cr. 851-NIR), including appropriate technical package; improved crop
husbandry; applied research; the principles of cooperative autonomy and self-management and full cost
recovery; and introduction of animal traction and seed multiplication program.
27.          The Implementation Process. ONAHA was responsible for the implementation of the
Project. The agency consisted of three regional offices (Niamey, Tillabery and Tahoua), under the
directorship of the General Manager of ONAHA. It was responsible for implementing the physical
rehabilitation of the irrigation perimeters and for carrying out crop development activities (support to
extension, crop management, monitoring and evaluation). Adaptive research and the production of
foundation seeds were subcontracted out to the research institute, INRAN. Government was expected
to finance, through quarterly budget payments (at the beginning of each quarter), ONAHA's overhead
expenditures for the above services (designated as ONAHA's public service functions) as these costs were
not recoverable from the beneficiaries nor covered by external financing (para. 4.02, DCA). Non-respect
of this commitment was the principal cause of ONAHA's chronic financial difficulties, especially during
the last two years of the project implementation period.
28.          Owing to the sector's limited absorptive capacity, the Project financed the services of a
limited number of expatriate staff to assist the national director with day-to-day Project implementation.
Although the Project recruited only eight long-term technical assistance personnel plus two short-term
expatriate consultants, the number of expatriates involved with implementation substantially increased,
over the Bank's objection, to about 33 in 1989/90. These were funded under various bilateral agreements
between the Borrower and other donors (FED, FAC and KfW). The input of the long-term expatriate
staff proved indispensable for proper execution of the Project. However, little was done in terms of staff
training and capacity building to facilitate a transfer of know-how and management responsibilities,
thereby leading to serious slippage in implementation performance, especially after the sudden departure
of most of the expatriate staff towards the Credit closing date.
29.          The Technical Coa=onent. Engineering designs based on sound criteria and adapted to
expected Project performance were available for all works to be constructed. Bidding documents for



- 10 -
these works were evaluated in order to minimize the risks of cost-overruns. The physical works were
implemented over a two-year period with a short start-up delay. Systematic supervision of these works
made it possible to identify a few design problems on irrigation and drainage canals during
implementation. As follow-up, the Project financed a consultant study and supplementary construction
works in 1991 to redress these design problems (in Daikena, Ndounga II and Libore). With the exception
of these original design problems, the civil engineering and maintenance works have generally been of
excellent quality, permitting year-round cropping on the rehabilitated perimeters. A useful feature of the
Project which greatly facilitated implementation was the option of doing rehabilitation works on the
conveyance and drainage systems on Force Account, and a special unit headed by two expatriate staff was
created to manage it. The initial success in using this method deteriorated as a result of the general
decline in the overall quality of Project management which became evident around 1989/90. Adequate
supervision from the monitoring and evaluation unit, which was headed by an expatriate plus a support
staff of two expatriates and a team of local staff, accounts for satisfactory implementation performance.
The semi-annual progress reports which this unit prepared have been used as input in preparation of the
annual multi-donor supervision missions which the Bank organized. These missions have served an
extremely useful role in early identification of implementation problems and in mobilizing donor
consensus around the remedial actions and on subsector policy issues in general.
30.          Institutional Comaonent. The approach to institution-building was top heavy because of
its narrow focus on strengthening public sector management, including management of the cooperative
development component. Implementation of this component did not proceed as satisfactorily as that of
the technical component. Many of the reasons for this poor performance record had actually been
identified during the preparation phase as possible implementation constraints, but were inadequately dealt
with in the design stage. The failure to do so may perhaps be attributed to optimism on the Bank's part
about the extent of the Borrower's commitment to the Project's institutional objectives or to lack of an
imaginative institutional development strategy. This component consisted of (a) strengthening ONAHA
to perform its role as lead executing agency, (b) promoting cooperative autonomy and the principle of
cooperative self-management, and (c) strengthening RINI to enable it to market the incremental rice
production.
31.          ONAHA had already acquired the necessary technical skills in civil works construction
as well as in support activities for agricultural production, through the Bank-KfW-financed
Namarigoungou Project (Cr. 851-NIR) and in fact properly executed its mission during the first four
years of the Project. Good performance up to this period may be explained by the effective leadership
role played by the first Project director and the technical assistance input in both administration and
financial management. Since 1990, however, ONAHA began to encounter the same kind of problems
which various Bank preparation missions had identified, such as chronic financial difficulties; inadequate
financial structure; irregular and insufficient Government budget support; weak internal control over
administrative and personnel procedures; and a bloated work force. Also since this period, revenues from
the commercial services provided by the two maintenance brigades declined, and no corresponding effort
was made to reduce rising operating costs. This situation was exacerbated by the freezing of an estimated
CFAF 104 million of ONAHA's funds in the failed BDRN, which the Government has not been able to
recover as of the Credit closing date. Consequently, ONAHA was unable to deliver on its annual
contractual obligations to the cooperatives, resulting in significant decline in the quality of maintenance
services on many perimeters. For instance, in the 1990/91 fiscal year ONAHA was able to execute only
17.8% of the contracted maintenance works on the 45 irrigation perimeters under its responsibility and
as low as only 2% on the perimeters in the Tillabery regional center. The execution rate in the preceding
fiscal year was only slightly better at 20%.



- 11 -
32.          The deterioration in ONAHA's financial situation is due mainly to the Government's
inability to provide budget support to finance part of the agency's operating costs for public services
rendered on behalf of the Government. The level of this support began to fall gradually from CFAF
302.5 million in 1984, to CFAF 180 million in 1986 (year of Project's effectiveness), and then to only
CFAF 78 million in 1990. While the Government's budgetary support was declining, Government
pressure to recruit more staff for ONAHA was increasing, resulting in additional recruitment of about
100 staff compared to the appraisal estimate. Supervision missions had recommended sharp reductions
in personnel and the design and adoption of a Contrat-Plan for ONAHA's public service functions (which
should contain a clear definition of these functions, measures to increase productivity and improve
institutional and management performance and performance indicators) in order to redress the above
problems. As with most other supervision mission recommendations, these were never implemented.
33.          As of the Credit closing date, the outstanding balance in the Special Account of this
Credit, which remains frozen in the former state development bank (BDRN), is CFAF 103,936,525,
equivalent to SDR 271,984.65. Total IDA administered funds frozen at this Bank amounted to
CFAF 810,753,333. The balance of the Credit of SDR 308,379.73 has been cancelled pending the
recovery of the Special Account. The Bank and other donors are currently discussing with Government
a workable arrangement for obtaining funds from the recoveries of this bank's bad debts to repay the
development institutions whose funds remain blocked at the BDRN. The Bank is monitoring the
Government's debt recovery efforts and has periodically received statements of the accounts of the frozen
funds.
34.          The key implementation problem of RINI may be traced to the issue of its financial
viability, which was raised during various preparation missions. The conclusion of these missions was
that RINI was not financially viable and that if its chronic financial problems were not resolved by
appraisal time, it should be left to collapse. As a substitute, the Project would assist the cooperatives to
conduct primary marketing and would finance small-scale hullers for rice processing. Under strong
farmer-pressure owing to their concern for guaranteed producer prices and an assured marketing outlet,
the Government convinced the Bank to include support to RINI in the Project design. The CFD and KfW
assisted the Government to expunge RINI's debts and to regularize its financial situation before Project
start-up. In retrospect, the option recommended by the preparation mission would have served better the
objective of cooperative autonomy and efficiency.
35.          The cooperative training subcomponent was subcontracted to the Ministries of Education
and Planning, but ONAHA was responsible for overall coordination and supervision. It should be borne
in mind that Bank preparation missions had advised that training of cooperative managers and members
should not be entrusted to ONAHA or any Government services on the grounds that such an option would
not enable the cooperatives to progressively assume their responsibilities and would perpetuate the role
of Government or ONAHA in cooperative management, as has been borne out by the implementation
experience (i.e., systematic Government interference in cooperative affairs either through ONAHA or
the National Cooperative Movement). Furthermore, ONAHA did not show sufficient interest in
cooperative training or in proper supervision of this component. Thus, although the Government had
assured the Bank of its commitment to cooperative autonomy, and in fact produced legal documents on
the contractual arrangements with cooperatives to satisfy disbursement conditions, it continued its dirigist
policies, thereby undermining the effective implementation of this important component.
36.          Project Supervision. Project supervision was done annually by a multi-donor mission
consisting of the Bank, the CFD and KfW. These missions reviewed in detail the bi-annual reports of



- 12 -
implementation performance, conduct field visits of the perimeters and evaluated ONAHA's performance
on execution of the annual work program and budget. A unique feature of the supervision missions was
that each of the participating donor agencies were represented by the same individuals, which enhanced
institutional memory and greatly facilitated coordination and consensus-building around formulation of
the annual work program and budget, performance indicators, key implementation issues and the
Government's subsector policies. In addition, the adoption of an annual implementation schedule and
budget during such missions was found to substantially reduce the task manager's time input in routine
supervision work.
G. Conclusions: Summary of Lessons Learned
37.           The overall performance of this Project is considered to be satisfactory, in large part,
because it improved farm incomes and contributed significantly to alleviation of rural poverty. All of
the Project's physical targets have been successfully achieved, which made it possible for the beneficiaries
to obtain substantial incremental food crop production. Rural income and welfare has significantly
improved as a result of the Project's direct and indirect employment effects and Niger's food security has
also been enhanced. However, the strong performance of the institutional component experienced during
the first four years of the Project could not be sustained during the remaining two years, primarily
because changing circumstances, such as the deterioration in the institutional environment and Niger's
macroeconomic situation, made it extremely difficult to implement this component according to plan.
Sustainability of the Project's achievements would thus require long-term commitment to institution-
building objectives in the subsector, including (a) continuation of support to a strong cooperative
development program; (b) major restructuring of ONAHA, including substantial reductions in its work
force (to a maximum of 100 staff) and operating costs, elimination of the force account contracting; and
(c) improvements in rice marketing and pricing policies. The lessons to be learned relate primarily to
the design of the Project's institutional arrangements, and virtually all these could be applied in the design
and implementation of other projects in the productive sectors of the economy.
38.           First, a top heavy approach to cooperative development (i.e., one centered around
preexisting state structures) cannot lead to cooperative autonomy, in part because it perpetuates continuous
state intervention in cooperative affairs and partly because it accentuates the common errors in group
formation, such as, vague group objectives, non-definition of members' obligations, undefined
responsibilities and absence of sanctions and accountability. A more imaginative strategy is to empower
farmers and other economic agents to form independent economic interest groups or associations, thereby
constituting an adequate framework for beneficiary participation in a project. Appropriate measures
should be taken to insulate these groups from governmental control and influence. This approach has
been incorporated in the design of the follow-up private irrigation project.
39.           Second, the experience shows that a good project management is the key to satisfactory
execution of a project. This can be achieved either through prior clear agreement with the Borrower on
the terms and conditions for hiring and "firing" key project staff or through adequate safeguards against
governmental interference in day-to-day project implementation. The Private Irrigation project currently
under preparation is trying to achieve the above objective by creating a private project management
agency that will be completely insulated from Government interference.
40.           Third, the objective of providing adequate and sustainable institutional framework for
implementing projects in countries with limited capacity are more likely to be achieved when it is pursued



- 13 -
in the context of a longer-term commitment to institution-building than through a project of limited time
frame.
41.          Fourth, a narrow focus on strengthening semi-autonomous project management units
provides an unsound base for continuing project-financed activities after the reduction or withdrawal of
donor support. The experience from this Project underscores the need to entrust management of similar
operations to fully autonomous agencies and grass roots organizations. This lesson has also been adapted
to the design of the private irrigation project.
42.          Fifth, Borrower commitment to Project objectives as well as ability to respect such
commitments should be closely monitored during Project implementation. Any indication of wavering
on this commitment should cause the Bank to call the Project into question, and to promptly take
corrective measures as appropriate.
43.          Sixth, the Bank should ensure: (a) consistency of approaches to Technical Assistance (TA)
and if such inconsistencies should emerge during Project implementation, the Bank should act decisively
to resolve these; and (b) that the terms of reference for TAs should include explicit statements requiring
the TA program to contribute to training of local counterparts and other capacity-enhancing activities to
facilitate transfer of know-how.
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM 'IHE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
44.          The Bank has requested the Borrower to prepare Part II of the draft PCR. A reply has
not been received.
c: \do\niger\pcr 16 8\6maintext



- 14 -
PART In - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit Nl     FY of  |                                       I
[ Title      JApproval             Purpose             Status   jCommeiits
Agricultural      78       Provide credit to increase  Completed.  The project was successful due
Credit                     Niger's production of rice  Closed     to yields substantially above
(Cr. 851-NIR)              through the development of  9/84       appraisal estimates and lower
irrigated  agriculture  and            rehabilitation  costs.   The
improve income of partici-             project's low economic rate of
pating farmers from their              return of 3% was due to high
holdings in the irrigation             construction costs and almost
scheme                                 100% cost overruns on irrigation
works, slow uptake by farmers,
lower-than-expected increase in
paddy production and negligible
impact on rainfed farmers due to
drought.
c :\do\niger\pcrl6 1 8\MtbIes



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Ite                 DatePlanned       J    Date Revised    I       Actual Date
Identification                                                                04/81
Preparation                 06/81-12/82                                    06/81-12/82
Appraisal Mission              12/83                                         11-12/82
Credit Negotiations            02/85                                      2/25-5/23/85W'
Board Approval                 02/85                  3/27/85               06/25/859
Credit Signature              4/16/85                                       08/22/85
Credit Effectiveness           10/85                                        05/01/86-v
Project Completion            06/30/90               06/26/90               06/26/90
FCredit Closing                 12/31/90                                      12/31/914'
c:\do\niger\pcrl618Ntables
1/     Negotiations began in February but could not be completed until May due to lack of decision on
(a) management contract for strengthening of RINI, and (b) the establishment of a mechanism for providing
agricultural credit.
2/     Board approval delayed due to negotiations delay.
3/     Effectiveness delayed (7 months), until Government confirmed it was ready to negotiate with a contract
for the setting up of Soci&e d'Exploitation du Riz du Niger (RINI).
4/     The closing date was delayd by one year to allow completion of activities essential for project
sustainability, namely audit of cooperative accounts and training of ONAHA staff and cooperative
managers.



- 16 -
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements
(in US$ millions)
IDA FY & Quarter    |  Appraisal Estimate            Actual            |    Actual as %
l____ _____ _____ _____   | ________ _of  Estim ated
1986  2                      1.8
3                     2.0
4                      2.2
1987  1                      2.5                    0.99                      39.6
2                      2.8                    2.31                      82.5
3                     3.2                     2.34                      73.1
4                      3.6                    2.80                      77.8
1988  1                      4.1                    3.16                      77.0
2                     4.6                     3.40                      73.9
3                     5.1                     4.56                      89.4
4                      5.6                    6.01                     107.3
1989  1                      6.1                    6.57                     107.7
2                      6.4                    6.59                     102.9
3                     6.7                     8.23                     122.8
4                      7.0                    8.60                     122.9
1990  1                      7.3                    9.14                     125.2
2                      7.6                     _
3                      7.9                    9.66                     122.3
4                      8.1                   10.42                     128.6
1991  1                      8.3                    11.10                    133.7
2                      8.5                   11.11                     130.7
3                      8.7                   11.20                     128.7
4                      8.9                   11.67                     131.1
1992  1                      9.1                    11.81                    129.8
2                      9.3                   11.88                     127.7
3                                            11.95                     128.0
4                                            11.95                     128.0
1993  1                                             11.95                    128.0
2                                            12.011'                   129.0
Closing Date:               December 31, 1991
Date of Final Disbursement:    December 31, 1992
c:\do\niger\pcrl6 I18\tables
I/     The actual dollar amount (US$12.01 million equivalent) differed from the appraisal estimate (US$9.3
million equivalent) due to fluctuations in the exchange rate of SDR and dollars. Only SDR 9.29 million
of the original Credit amount of SDR 9.6 mnillion was disbursed. The undisbursed balance of SDR 308,379
was cancelled.



- 17 -
4. Project Cogs and Financing"
A. Project Costs
I               (in millions of US Dollars)
|   Appraisal Estimates"               Actual"'
1. Rehabilitation Works                        9.5                         17.91
2. Crop Intensification                         2.4                         1.45
3. Assistance to Cooperatives                   3.2                         3.43
4. Applied Research
& Seed Multiplication                        0.6                         1.21
5. Strengthening of ONAHA                       3.1                         8.48
6. Strengthening of RINI                        1.3                          0
7. Project Preparation (PPF)                    1.2                         1.50
8. Contingencies                                3.9                          0
TOTAL                              25.2                        33.98
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B. Proiect Financming
(In millions of US dollars)
Appraisal Estimates"   J            Actual'2
Govermment                                  1.3                          2.56
Beneficiaries                               1.4                          0.10
IDA                                         9.3                         12.01
CCCE                                       9.3                          12.34
KfW                                         3.9                          6.97
TOTAL                           25.2                         33.98
/1 US$/CFAF/SDR exchange rate is being applied in the appraisal estimates.
/2 Exchange rate of US$1 = CFAF 295.
c :\do\nigcr\pcrl 61 8\tabkca



- 18 -
5. Status of Covenants
Credit Agreement
Section        Brief Description of Covenants    Compliance          Remarks
3.01(a)(i)     The Borrower shall carry out Parts
of the Project through its Min. of
Hydrology and Environ. and its       Met       Coordination was
Min.  of  Education  with  the                 unsatisfactory
assistance of ONAHA.
3.01(a)(ii)    The Borrower shall cause RINI to
contract  with  a  management  Partially met  Management assistance
consulting firm  with satisfactory             provided by FED
experience and qualifications.             _ _
3.01(a)(iii)   The Borrower shall cause ONAHA
to perform  its obligations of the   Met
Project Agreement.                    _
3.01(b)        The Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Credit available to
ONAHA  as  a grant for the           Met
carrying out of the appropriate
Parts of the Project.
3.01(c)(i)     The  Borrower  shall  make
satisfactory  arrangements  with
ONAHA providing for the mutual
obligations and contributions of the  Partially met
Borrower and ONAHA in carrying
out the appropriate Parts of the
Project.                                                               l
3.01(c)(ii)    The  Borrower  shall  make
satisfactory   contractual
arrangements for the carrying out
of Part 2(C) of the Project, with    Met
agric. cooperatives in the Project
Area whose members receive
seasonal & medium-term credit
under Part C(2).
3.01(d)        - Project cooperatives to make       Met
inputs available to their farmers
- Project cooperatives to provide    Met
seasonal & medium-term credit
to their farmers under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.



- 19 -
5. Status of Covenants (cont'd)
| Credit Agreement |                                l
Section         Brief Description of Covenants    Compliance         Remarks
3.02           Procurement required  for  the
Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be      Met
governed by the provisions of
Sched. I of the Project Agreement.
3.03           The Borrower and IDA agree that
the  obligations  relating  to
insurance,  use  of  goods  &
services,  plans  &   schedules,     Met
records  &   reports,  and
maintenance be carried out by
ONAHA and land acquisition by
the Borrower, respectively.
3.04           The Borrower shall take necessary
measures to carry out an analysis
of the debts of the members of
cooperatives,  incl.  concrete       Met
proposals for payment, cancellation
or rescheduling of such debts.
4.01           ONAHA  shall maintain separate
records and adequate accounts of     Met
the Project.
4.02           The Borrower shall pay ONAHA
amounts  sufficient  to  finance    Not met
services performed on behalf of the
Borrower.
4.03           The  Borrower  shall take  all
necessary measures to enable
farmers in the Project area to sell  Met
at the official price that part of
their production of paddy that they
were not able to sell.
4.04           The   Borrower  shall  cause
NIGELEC to provide farmers in    Not met
the Project area with preferential
rates for irrigation.
4.05           ONAHA shall have the accounts of
each cooperative audited every two  Partially met
years.



6. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs"'
[  FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83 J FY84 1 FY85 J FY86 |FY87 I FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91 J FY92   FY93 [TOTAL|
Preparation       0.2     0.3    6.5      7.4    24.2   17.7                                             0.1                              56.4
Appraisal                                                74.8   25.0                                                                      99.8
Negotiations
through Board                                                  11.7                                                                      11.7
Supervision                                                      0.7    15.2    5.6    4.8    8.4    5.6    4.1    6.1                    50.5
Completion                                                                                                                      0.3        0.3        o
Other              _              0.6                     4.3    11.2    5.2    1.5    1.7    1.1                                         25.4
TOTAL         0.2   |- 0.3   |7.1   | 7.4    24.2   96.8   48.6   20.4    7.1  |I6.5    9.5    5.7 | 4.1    6.1   | 0.3   |244.3|
/a There was no completion mission.
A Bank mission visited ONAHA in April/May 1992 to collect the statistical data for the economic analysis.
IQ Time recorded by Country Operations Division and Resident Mission and entered under LOP, PAD, or COF.



B. Missions
I   Month/        No. of         Days in                                                        |            Performance Rating
|    Stage of Project Cycle     |   Field       | Personas    |  Field      |      Specializations Represented h|  Status"'                     |  Trend' F       ProblemsPi
Identification                           4/81            2            21          ECN, AGR                                                N/A            N/A            N/A
Preparation                              6/81            2             10         AGR, FNA                                                N/A            N/A            N/A
Preparation                              4182            3             7          ECN, AGR                                                N/A            N/A            N/A
Preparation                              6/I2            I             2          AGR                                                     N/A            N/A            N/A
Preparation                             12/82            i             16         C                                                       N/A            N/A            N/A
Pre-appraisal                            7/83            4             II         ECN, AGR, C                                             N/A            N/A            N/A
Appraisal                              11-1283          7            21          AGR, FNA, ECN, C                                        N/A           N/A             N/A
Appraisal (follow-up)                    5/84            1            12          ECN                                                     N/A           N/A             N/A
Appraisal (follow-up)                    10/84           1             10         ECN                                                     n/a           N/A             N/A
Post-appraisal                          12/84            2             2          FNA                                                     N/A           N/A             N/A
Pre-Negotiations                        1-2/85           2             9          FNA                                                     N/A           N/A             N/A
Supervision                              11/85           2             10         FNA                                                     N/A            N/A            N/A
Supervision 2                            6/86            1             9          FNA                                                     2              1
Supervision 3                           11/86            2             7          FNA, C                                                  2              1
Supervision (non regular)               12/86            2             7          FNA, C
N/A           N/A              N/A
Supervision (non regular)                4/87            I            23          ECN                                                     N/A           N/A              N/A
Supervision                             10/87            I             7          AGR                                                     2           ;
Supervision                              3/88            1            13         C
Supervision                             11/88            2             7         AGR, C                                                  2               2              M, P
Supervision                             6/89
Supervision                             11/89            1            7          AGR                                                     2               2              Di, F
Supervision                              1/90            1            7          AGR                                                     2               2
Supervision                             12/90            1            7          AGR                                                     3               3            DI. F. M
Supervision                             11/91            3            5          ECN, AGR, FNA                                           3               3            Di, F, NI



(a)    Specialiations:
AGR = Agronomist, Agriculturist                           FNA = Economist
FNA = Financial Analyst                                   C    = Consultant
(b)    Status:
1 = Problem-free or minor problems                        3   = Major problems
2 = Moderate problems                                     N/A = Not Applicable (no 590 produced)
(c)    Trend:
I =  Improving                                            3  = Deterorating
2 = Stationary
(d)    Types of problems:
DI  =  Development Impact                                 M  =  Managerial
F   =  Financial                                          P  =  Political
N/A = Not Applicable (no 590 produced).
c:\do\niger\pcrl 61 f\tables



- 23 -
7. EX-POST ECONOMIC RETURNS
PROJECT              PROJECT          PRODUCTION    INCREMENTAL                NET
YEAR    INVESTMENTS           MANAGEMENT'n           COSTS            VALUE OF         INCREMENTAL
PRODUCTION          BENEFITS
1          1468969               532151             1851152              0                -770068
2          1694183               643617             1810528           3065844            -1082483
3           679858               642154             2191798           3353463             -160346
4           78773                596304             2221481           3188191              291633.3
5           297571               411567             2236869           3794803              848796.5
6            3529                80011              2446674           4248029             1717815
7            2188                  0                2446674           4248029             1799167
8           10532                  0                2446674           4248029             1790823
9            3529                   0               2446674           4248029             1797826
10           2188                   0               2446674           4248029             1799167
11          557940                  0               2446674           4248029             1243415
12           3529                   0               2446674           4248029             1797826
13           2188                   0               2446674           4248029             1799167
14           10532                  0               2446674           4248029             1790823
15           3529                   0               1796874           4248029             2447626
16           2188                   0               1796874           4248029             2448967
17           10532                  0               1796874           4248029             2440623
18           3529                   0               1796874           4248029             2447626
19           2188                   0               1796874           4248029             2448967
20           10532                  0               1796874           42498029            2440623
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN:  0.378746.
/I      On farm investment costs, including rehabilitation works, beneficiaries' contributions of labor, pump & vehicle
replacement costs.
/2      Includes support to crop intensification, adaptive research, & seed multiplication, cooperatives & assistance to
ONAHA.
/3      Mainly incremental production costs, including land preparation, threshing, hired labor, water charges (ADM
perimeters), collective charges & other seasonal inputs.
c:do\niger\pcrl618\tsbkr



