DIT NUMBER 1618 NIR
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVEIOFENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1618 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      6,                     , 1985, betwI.men
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borr    r) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts A, B (1), B (2), B (4), B (5), D and E of the
Project will be carried out by ONARA with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to ONAHA the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement;
(C) by an agreement (hereinafter called the KFW Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kreditanstalt
f/Ur Wiederaufbau, an agency of the Federal Republic of Germany
(hereinafter called KFW), KFW intends to make a grant (herein-
after called the KFW Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate prin-
cipal amount equivalent to about three million nine hundred
thousand dollars ($3,900,000) to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
(D) by an agreement (hereinafter called the CCCE Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and Caisse Centrale de
Coopgration Economique, an agency of the Republic of France
(hereinafter called CCCE), CCCE intends to make a loan (herein-
after called the CCCE Loan) to the Bo,rrower in an aggregate
amount equivalent to about nine million three hundred thousand
dollars ($9,300,000) to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and ONAHA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credct Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ONAHA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Project Area" means an area of about 5,000 hectares
comprising two irrigation systems the first in the Niamey
Province and consisting of the Niger River Valley and the second
in the Tahoua Province and consisting of the Ader-Doutchi-Maggia
Valley; and "perimeters" 'mean irrigation zones comprised within
said systems;
(c) "ADM" means the Ader-Doutchi-Maggia Valley;
(d) "ONAHA" means the Office National des Am6nagements
Hydro-Agricoles, an Etablissement Public A caractare Industriel
et Commercial of the Borrower established and operating pursuant
to Ordonnance No. 78-39 and Decree No. 78-154/PCMS/MDR both dated
December 28, 1978;
(e)  "INRAN" means Institut National de Recherches Agrono-
miques du Niger, an agency of the Borrower established pursuant
to Ordonnance No. 75-1/PCMS dated January, 1975;
(f)  "NIGELEC"   means  Socifte   Nig&rienne  d'Electricitg,
incorporated in 1968;
(g)  "RINI" means Societ6 Riz du Ni&er, an entity of the
Borrower established on January 1, 1967 and incorporated in the


﻿-3-
form of a Societe A.onyme and registered with the Trade Register
under NIAMEY RC 624;
(h)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the aggregate of
the project preparation advances granted by the Association to
the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated April 1, 1981
and June 30, 1981 and July 19, 1982 and November 8, 1983 between
the Borrower and the Association;
(i) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(j) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank
in Niamey on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿-4-
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section, 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1995, and ending January 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on January 1, 2005, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. ONAHA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall:
(i)  (A) carry out Part B (3) of the Project through
its Ministry of Hydrology and Environment
with the assistance of ONAHA; and
(B) carry out Part C (1) of the Project through
its Ministry of Education (in respect of
the preparation, execution and supervision
of training programs) and its Ministry of
Planning (in respect of farmer mobilization),
with the assistance of, and in coordination
with, ONAHA which will make available to the
Borrower the means (other than personnel)
required to carry out said Part of the
Project;
(ii)  (A) cause RINI to carry out its operation and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and agricultural
practices, under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by com-
petent staff in adequate numbers. To that
effect, the Borrower shall cause RINI to
enter into a management contract with a
management consulting firm whose experience
and qualifications shall be satisfactory to
the Association;
(B) before    signing  the   management   contract
referred to in paragraph (A) above, the
Borrower shall provide the Association with


﻿-6-
the terms and conditions of such contractofor
its approval; and
(C) -cause RINI to carry out Part F of the
Project, all with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,   financial,   technical  and
agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the
purpose; and
(iii) cause ONAHA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of ONAHA therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
ONAHA to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to ONARA as a grant for the carrying out of Parts A,
B (1), B (2), B (4), B (5), D and E of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall prior to December 31, 1985: (i) make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with ONAHA provid-
ing for the mutual obligations-and contributions of the Borrower
and ONAHA in carrying out Parts B (3) and C (1) of the Project;
and (ii) make contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, for the carrying out of Part C (2) of the Project, with
agricultural cooperatives in the Project Area whose members
receive seasonal and medium-term credit under Part C (2) of the
Project.
(d) The Borrower shall for the purposes of the seasonal and
medium-term credit referred to under Part C (2) of the Project,
apply the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement betw&hn the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-7-
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively, in
respect of the Parts of the Project to be carried out by ONAHA)
shall be carried out by ONAHA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement, it being understood that the obligations
under Section 9.08 of the General Conditions relating to land
acquisition shall be carried out by the Borrower for purposes
of Part B (3) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to have an analysis carried out of the debts of the members of
cooperatives in the Project Area, including concrete proposals
for the payment, cancellation or rescheduling of such debts.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting pgractices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts B (3) and C (1) of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall pay to ONAHA quarterly at
the beginning of every quarter amounts sufficient to finance
ONAHA's overhead expenditures for services performed by ONAHA on
behalf of the Government and the costs of which are not recover-
able from beneficiaries nor covered by any external sources of
financing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to enable farmers in the Project Area to sell at the official
price that part of their production of paddy that they were not
able to sell.


﻿-8-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause    NIGELEC to provide
farmers in the Project Area with preferential rates for irriga-
tion.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:.
(i) have the accounts of each cooperative in the
Project Area audited every two years, in accor-
dance   with   appropriate   auditing   principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case n6t later than four months after
the end of each 'two-year period to which they
relate, the full report of such audit.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) ONAHA shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occured after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ONAH1A will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The instruments referred to in Section 1.02 (d), (e),
(f) or (g) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of ONAHA to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement, of RINI to carry out Part F of the
Project or of NIGELEC or INRAN to carry out their obligations
under the agreements set forth in paragraph (c) of Section 2.01
of the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ONAHA, RINI or INRAN or for the suspension of the opera-
tions of any of them.


﻿-9-
(e) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(i) (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or credit (including
the KFW Grant and the CCCE Loan) made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended,< cancelled or
terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor  or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General   Conditions,   the  following   additional   events  are
specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, or the event specified
in paragraph (e)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (e)(ii) of said Sec-
tion 5.01.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or
initial disbursements under, the KFW Agreement and the CCCE
Agreement shall have been fulfilled;
(b) arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have
been made for the assumption by the Borrower of all of ONAHA's
debts to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole;
(c) the Borrower shall: (i) have prepared, in consultation
with cooperatives in the Project Area, a plan satisfactory to the
Association for improving tid cooperatives' accounting systems,
including an analysis of the debts of cooperatives and concrete
proposals for the payment, cancellation or rescheduling of such
debt; and (ii) have achieved progress, satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, in the implementation of such plan;
(d) ONAHA shall have employed, on a permanent basis, a
financial manager, a chief accountant and three regional account-
ants with qualifications satisfactory to the Association;
(e) arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have
been made for the settlement of ONAHA's arrears to its sup-
pliers; and
(f) the management contract referred to in Section 3.01 (a)
(ii) (A) of this Agreement has been signed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by ONAHA, and is legally
binding upon ONARA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement and the pro-
visions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date 15 years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIPLAN                            5230 CND
Niamey          -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By
ltuthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:
(a) Rehabilitation       1,130,000         100%
of catchment
dams under
Part A of
the Project
(b) Other                1,340,000         49%
(2) Equipment:
(a) Construction          1,130,00         100%
(b) Agricultural           310,000         90%
(threshers)
(c) Agricultural           110,000         44%
(others)
(3) Salaries of              1,440,000          49%
ONARA's incre-
mental staff
on contract
(other than
those included
in Category (4)),
training and
operating costs
and office equip-
ment


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Services of              1,440,000          100%
consultants,
experts and
specialists,
and studies
(5) Seasonal credit            210,000          49%
fund
(6)  Special Account           830,000          Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 3 to
this Agreement
(7) Refunding of             1,030,000          Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                630,000
TOTAL              9,600,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above: (a) no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures to
be made under category 2 (b) and (c) and under category (5) until
the Association has received -5atisfactory evidence that the Bor-
rower has made the contractual arrangements referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 (c)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase food produc-
tion and farm incomes in the Republic of Niger, promote inde-
Dendent management of irrigated perimeters by farmers, protect
investments  already made in    irrigation  and agriculture and
thereby reduce the Borrower's recurrent costs.
The Project to be carried out in the Project Area consists
of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time
to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
(1) Construction of rehabilitation works in about 15 peri-
meters totalling about 2,300 ha in the Niger Valley and
consisting of: (i) electrification of about 7 irrigated
perimeters, including the erection of about 24 km of a
medium tension transmission line; (ii) installation of
about 40 electric pumping units and 4 diesel-driven
pumping units in 14 pumping stations including rehab-
ilitation/construction of associated structures and
civil engineering works; (iii) reshaping and reinforce-
ment of about 30 km of protection dykes; (iv) rehabili-
tation of about 75 km of irrigation canals, 135 km of
primary and secondary drains, 190 km of field drains,
190 km of access roads and of associated structures;
and (v) construction of 3 cooperative stores.
(2) Construction of rehabilitation works in the ADM valley
totalling about 850 ha and consisting of: (i) rehabili-
tation of 3 catchment dams, including the raising of
the crest level of one dam; (ii) reshaping and rein-
forcement of about 15 km of protection dykes; and (iii)
rehabilitation of about 30 km of tertiary drains and
5 km of primary roads.
(3) Maintenance of irrigation and drainage canals, includ-
ing purchase of necessary equipment and establishment
of two maintenance brigades at ONARA's Niamey and
Tillabery Regional Offices.


﻿- 16 -
Part B:
(1) Crop intensification on about 20 perimeters included in
the Project to: (i) improve average paddy yield on
about 15 rice perimeters; (ii) increase crop intensity
on about 15 rice perimeters; and (iii) increase average
cotton and sorghum yield on about 5 perimeters in the
ADM valley.
(2) Establishment of a seed multiplication scheme involving
multiplication of small quantities of foundation seed
produced by INRAN on collective cooperative seed plots
or by farmers under contract with the cooperatives.
(3) Establishment of village woodlots on soils unsuitable
for crops.
(4) Training of about 30 blacksmiths in the maintenance of
animal draft equipment supplied to farmers under the
animal traction program included in Part C (2) (b) of
the Project.
(5) Extension pragram to advise farmers on the application
of the results of the adaptive research included in
Part D of the Project and on seed multiplication
standards and training of extension staff.
Part 0:
(1) A functional literacy and numeracy program to assist
cooperatives in the: (i) proper maintenance of assets
at their disposal; (ii) preparation and monitoring of
their semi-annual budgets; (iii) preparation, reading
and use of their accounts; (iv) management of primary
paddy marketing; and (v) undertaking of collective and
productive investments.
(2)  (a) Provision   of   seasonal  credit  to   members  of
cooperatives for purchase of fertilizer, pesti-
cides and other agricultural inputs as well as for
the payment of water and related charges.
(b)   Provision of medium-term credit to cooperatives:
(i) for purchase of collective equipment including
pumps for gardening, paddy dehullers and stores;


﻿- 17 -
(ii) for promotion of an animal traction program
involving the supply to farmers, on credit, of
about 2,000 pairs of draft animals with equipment
(tool bar, plow, cultivator and cart) and 1,500
pedal threshers; and (iii) for supply, on credit,
of tools and equipment to blacksmiths trained
under Part B (4) of the Project for maintenance of
animal draft equipment supplied under the animal
traction promotion program.
Part D:
Program of adaptive research and foundation seeds
production by INRAN involving: (i) fertilizer trials on
sites representative of main ecological conditions;
(ii) introduction and screening of new rice varieties
intended for technological packages of the extension
services; and (iii) production of rice foundation seed
for multiplication by cooperatives.
Part E:
(1) Strengthening of ONAHA's project executing capabilities
including: (i) provision of incremental staff, office
equipment and vehicles to ONARA's headquarters and
regional offices; (ii) the establishment and operation
by ONAHA of a new unit for monitoring, evaluation,
financial planning, budgeting and budgetary control;
and (iii) annual audits of ONARA's operations.
(2) A study of the use of groundwater in the Ader-Doutchi-
Maggia Valley to supplement or replace gravity irriga-
tion.
(3) A study of water charges in the Project Area.
Part F:
(1) Strengthening of RINI's ability to process incremental
paddy production under the Project and to improve its
overall efficiency including the provision to RINI of
additional storage capacity, weighing equipment and of
additional funds for the purchase of about 3,000 tons
of paddy each season.


﻿- 18 -
(2) A feasibility study of the comparative use of husk
combustion and diesel engines as energy source for the
operation of rice mills.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (b), 2 (c), (3),
(4) and (5) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
CFA Francs equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6)
which is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
J
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 20 -
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) (b), (2) (c),
(3), (4) and (5), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Sched-
ule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) (b), (2) (c), (3), (4) and
(5) for the Project, minus the amount of any out-
standing qualified agreement to reimburse made by
the Association and of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) (b), (2) (c), (3), (4) and (5) for the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the


﻿- 21 -
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures*
6.   (a) If the Association shall have" determined at any, time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to 'Lhe amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, proiptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Seasonal and Medium-term Credit
(Part C (2) of the Project)
A.   Seasonal Credit (Part C (2)(a) of the Project)
1.   The  Borrower  shall make   available  to  agricultural
cooperatives in the Project area as a grant proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn under Category 5 of the table set
forth in paragraph (1) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
2.   Cooperatives shall be required to purchase seasonal
agricultural inputs needed by their members with such
proceeds.
3.   Cooperatives shall be required to make such inputs
available to their members in the form of credit in
kind under arrangements satisfactory to the Association
which shall include, inter alia, the obligation for the
members to repay the respective amounts, with interest
of not less than 12% per annum over a period of six
months.
4.   Each cooperative shall be required to create a revolv-
ing fund to which they shall credit all amounts made
available to them for, or repaid to them on account of
seasonal credit, and debit all amounts disbursed for
the purchase of seasonal inputs.
B.   Medium-term Credit (Part C (2)(b) of the Project)
1.   The Borrower shall make available to the agricultural
cooperatives in the Project Area as a loan it kind
equipment financed with the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (2)(b) and (c) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement. The terms and conditions of such loan
shall be: a repayment period of 8 years maximum includ-
ing a two years maximum grace period and interest of 1%
per annum.
2.   Cooperatives shall be required to make such equipment
available to their members in the form of credit in


﻿- 23 -
kind under arrangements satisfactory to the Association
which shall include, inter alia, the obligation for the
members to pay a down-payment equivalent to at least
10% of the equipment price, an interest rate of 12% per
annum and a maturity period of 5 years maximum includ-
ing a one year maximum grace period.
3.   Cooperatives shall apply all funds repaid to them to
the repayment of the loan principal and all interest
accrued thereon to the Borrower.
4.   The Borrower shall apply all funds repaid by         the
cooperatives including all interest thereon to the
provision of further medium-term credit to cooperatives
in the Project Area.
C.   Other requirements
Farmers shall not be required to sell paddy to their
cooperatives in quantities exceeding the equivalent in value of
amounts owed by such farmers to the cooperatives on account of
credit and shall have the right to sell any surplus of marketable
paddy to RINI or to private parties.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoIag is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


