OFMFCIAL
CREDIT NIBER 1618 NIR
DMCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DES AMENAGEMENTS HYDRO-AGRICOLES
Dated                    22       , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUKBER 1618 NIR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     A4       {22            , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS2OCIATION (the Association) and
OFFICE NATIONAL DES AMENAGEMENTS HYDRO-AGRICOLES (ONAHA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Niger (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the, Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ONAHA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS ONAHA, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ONAHA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B (1), B (2), B (4), B (5), D and E of the Project
described in said Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engi-
neering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) ONABA shall: (i) cooperate with; and assist, the Bor-
rower to enable it to carry out Parts B (3), C (1) and C (2) of
the Project in coordination with the carrying out of the Parts of
the Project to be carried out by ONARA; and (ii) provide all
necessary assistance to the Borrower. in providing the services
included in Parts B (3), C (1) and C (2) of the Project, includ-
ing the purchase of materials for the purpose.
(c) ONAHA shall:
(i) prior to December 31, 1985, contract the services
of NIGELEC to assist it in carrying out Part A
(1)(i) of the Project under an agree.ent to be
concluded between ONAHA and NIGELEC and which
shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) prior to December 31, 1985, contract the services
of INRAN to assist it in carrying out Parts B (2)
and D of the Project under an agreement to be
concluded between ONAHA and INRAN and which shall
be satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii) duly perform its obligations and exercise its
rights under such agreements.
(d) ONAHA shall duly carry out its undertakings under the
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ONAHA shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ONAHA shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under


﻿-3-
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) ONAHA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ONARA of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.05. ONAHA shall not undertake any rehabilitation
works on irrigation perimeters included in the Project Area
unless: (i) ONAHA has concluded an agreement satisfactory to the
Association with the appropriate cooperatives which clearly
defines the respective responsibilities of ONARA and the coopera-
tives with respect to the operation and maintenance of th- peri-
meters, and which shall provide, inter alia, that the farmers
will bear the full cost of operation, maintenance and replace-
ment of pumping equipment and the full operating cost of the
irrigation and drainage networks; (ii) ONAHA has prepared in
cooperation with the cooperatives model statutes and bylaws
satisfactory to the Association which will: (A) regulate the
business, operations and other internal matters of the coopera-
tives, including a requirement that cooperatives maintain appro-
priate accounts and make such accounts available to the Borrower
for purposes of auditing in accordance with Section 4.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement; (B) provide a clear description of
members' obligations, procedures for eviction and for user rights
on irrigated plots; and (C) provide that farmers shall not be
required to remit or sell paddy to their cooperatives in quanti-
ties exceeding the equivalent in value of amounts owed by such
farmers to their cooperatives on account of seasonal credit or
water charges; and (iii) the cooperatives have adopted statutes
and bylaws based on the said model statutes and bylaws.
Section 2.06. (a) ONAHA shall create within its organization
a new unit for monitoring, evaluation, financial planning, bud-
geting and budgetary control.
(b) ONAHA shall ensure that said unit shall be staffed and
operational not later than December 31, 1985, the professional
staff of said unit to be employed in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) ONAHA shall: (i) through its monitoring and evalua-
tion unit, complete not later than December 31, 1988 or such


﻿-4-
other date as the Association may agree, the study included in
Part E (3) of the Project, including a review of the extent to
which farmers shall be able to contribute towards the capital
cost of irrigation works in the Project Area; (ii) promptly
thereafter transmit to the Borrower and the Association for their
comments the recommendations resulting from said study; and (iii)
implement final recommendations resulting therefrom, taking due
account of the Borrower's and the Association's comments.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ONAHA
Section 3.01. ONAHA shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) ONAHA shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
(b) ONAHA shall: (i) ensure that arrangements satisfactory
to the Association are made to assist cooperatives to select
qualified contractors for the maintenance of their pumping equip-
ment; and (ii) (A) review annually the adequacy of such main-
tenance by such contractors, and (B) take action to rev-edy any
maintenance deficiencies disclosed by the annual review.
Section 3.03. ONAHA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ONAHA shall not: (i) undertake any activities
unless financing on appropriate terms and conditions is available
for the purpose; and (ii) render services to any party except
under arrangements which fully compensate ONAHA for the cost of
providing such services.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ONAHA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) ONAHA shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (bal-
ance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year (starting with fiscal
year 1985-86), (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such- year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, ONAHA shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. ONAHA shall complete no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985 the design and installation of a cost accounting
system satisfactory to the Association and thereafter operate and
maintain said system in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, accounting and maintenance practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ONAHA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ONARA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ONAHA:
Office National des Amenagements
Hydro-Agricoles
P.O. Box 10697
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                    Telex:
ONAHA
Niamey, Niger
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ONAHA, or by ONAHA on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or


﻿-8-
executed by ONAHA's Director General or such other person or
persons as ONAHA's Director General shall designate in writing,
and ONAHA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   /"/ &
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
OFFICE NATIONAL DES AMENAGEMENTS
HYDRO-AGRICOLES
By
uth6rized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Niger may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works not exceeding $200,000 equivalent
and contracts for goods not exceeding $50,000 equivalent may, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent in the
case of works and $500,000 equivalent in the case of goods, be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Rehabilitation works on the irrigation/drainage systems,
access roads, dams and protection dikes may be carried out by
ONAHA's work force.


﻿- 10 -
E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist ONAHA in carrying out the Project, ONAHA
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the


﻿- 11 -
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198F5.
FOR SECRETARY


