                                         Document of
                                        The World Bank


                                                                           Report No: 68681-CL




                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                             ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                  OF
  MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL STRENGHTENING TAL PROJECT
                             LOAN 7458 – CH
                     APPROVED ON JANUARY 14, 2007


                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF CHILE


                                      December 11, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


MoF    Ministry of Finance
MoPW   Ministry of Public Works
PIU    Project Implementation Unit




             Regional Vice President:        Hasan Tuluy
                    Country Director:        Susan G. Goldmark
                      Sector Director:       Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez
             Sector Manager Director:        Aurelio Menéndez
                   Task Team Leader:         Daniel Alberto Benitez



                                         2
    CHILE – MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL STRENGHTENING
                              TAL (P102931)
                           LOAN No. 7458-CH

                                       Restructuring Paper

A. SUMMARY

        The objective of this Restructuring Paper is to introduce some changes aimed to
accelerate the achievements toward the Project Development Objectives. The propose changes
include: (a) extending the Project’s closing date; (b) Updating the Procurement and Consultant
Guidelines; (c) incorporating the Anti-corruption Guidelines; and (d) reallocating Loan Proceeds
among Project components.

B. PROJECT STATUS

        The Project Development Objectives remain achievable. Despite its initial delays, the
Project has shown a very positive trend in terms of implementation and disbursement rates since
January 2011. At this moment, the Project enjoys a strong endorsement at all levels of the MoPW
organization, being perceived as a key driver of the modernization process of the institution. A
Mid Term Review Supervision Mission was undertaken on August 8-10, 2011, and included a
meeting between the new Country Director and the Undersecretary of Public Works (head of the
PIU). In that meeting the Undersecretary ratified the interest of the MoPW on its partnership with
the World Bank for the development of the modernization program and the intention of
requesting a one year loan extension (up to January 2014). The Undersecretary of Public Works
became the new Minister of the MoPW since November 5, 2012.

        The effect of the extension on disbursements will be leveraged by the application of the
2011 Bank Procurement Guidelines to the Project as well as by the recent decision of the Bank to
use ChileCompra for procurement of higher value consultancy services (up until US$300,000).
According to the PIU estimates, the combined effect of the extension of the closing date and the
increase the threshold for which the procurement process of ChileCompra are acceptable for the
Bank will allow a disbursement of more than two third of the Loan.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

      Extension of Closing Date. A first extension of 12 months to the closing date of 7458-
CH Loan from January 31, 2013, to January 31, 2014, to support the Ministry of Public Works
(MoPW) Institutional Reform. The objective of this extension is to allow the loan to finance long-
term consultancies that have been launched recently by the MoPW (and others that will follow in
2013) and that have deliverables that extend beyond the current closing date. The MoF endorsed
the MoPW’s request with an official request for the extension of the closing date in a letter sent to
the Bank on January 24, 2012.




                                                 3
       Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. The Procurement and Consultant Guidelines
will be updated to reflect the most recent versions dated January 2011, which allows the use of
framework agreements, known as “Convenios Marcos? in Chile, for the procurement of goods,
works and non-consultant services. In addition, The Bank has decided to raise the maximum
limits for using ChileCompra for consultant services, from the current US$100,000 to
US$300,000. The effect of the extension on disbursements will be leveraged by the application of
the 2011 Procurement Guidelines to the Project, as well as the recent Bank decision to use
ChileCompra procedures for procurement of consultants’ services up until US$300,000. In
addition, the definition of “Convenios Marco? will be amended to include non-consultant
services.

       Anti-corruption Guidelines. The Anti-corruption Guidelines dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 will apply to the Project to be consistent with the latest version of the
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.

       Reallocation of Loan Proceeds. This reallocation will not require changes to the
Disbursement Table as included in the Loan Agreement. The loan resources will be reallocated
among Project components in the Project Appraisal Document - Annex 5. The allocation is
described in Annex 1 at the end of this document. The reallocation is proposed to accommodate
the actual disbursement of the third component (Integrated Project Management) that is larger
than the estimate in the Annex 5 of the Project Appraisal Document. Such increase is achieved
through a reduction of the estimate of the second component (Standards, Contracts and
Competition) to maintain the overall envelop of the loan to US$11.7 million. The reduction in the
second component will not create any restriction as the actual disbursement is much lower than
the new estimate.




                                                 4
    Annex 1 –Planned and new allocation of loan resources
                per component (US$ million)

Component                                 Planned     New Allocation

1. Integrated Planning                         4.10            4.10
2. Standards, Contracts and Competition        3.25            2.00
3. Integrated Project Management               0.75            2.00
4. Regulatory Strengthening                    1.40            1.40
5. Organizational Reform                       1.90            1.90
6. Audit and additional activities             0.30            0.30
Total                                         11.70           11.70
 Source: Informe de Estados Financieros 1 Semestre 2012 – MOP




                                     5
