 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14899

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/19/2016

               Country: Chile
             Project ID: P102931                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Ministry Of Public            Project Costs (US$M):                      35.4                   29.2
                         Works Institutional
                         Strengthening Tal
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      11.7                   8.25
      Sector Board:      Transport                     Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                06/14/2007
                                                                 Closing Date:          01/31/2013           01/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Central government administration (100%)
          Theme(s):        Administrative and civil service reform (29%); Regulation and competition policy (29%);
                           Other public sector governance (14%); Managing for development results (14%); Legal
                           institutions for a market economy (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Fang Xu                 Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 The project development objective was to assist the Borrower in achieving:

    (a) a sustainable and integrated approach to the planning of infrastructure;
    (b) levels of service standards for infrastructure as well as model contracts and procedures that promote
    competition and assign risks appropriately;
    (c) an integrated project management process;
    (d) a regulatory framework for the Ministry of Public Works' sectors of responsibility that increases user
    confidence in infrastructure service provision; and
    (e) organizational separation of the planning, contracting, execution and regulatory functions of infrastructure
    provision.

(Loan Agreement dated November 29, 2007, p.5; Project Appraisal Document, p. 6)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

1. Integrated Planning (appraised US$7.59 million; actual US$4.12 million). This component was to enhance the
Ministry of Public Works' (Ministerio de Obras Públicas -MOP) medium-term and long-term planning processes for
infrastructure investments both at the national and sub-national levels. It included design of a methodology for the
planning process of infrastructure investments at the strategic level (national level and long-term planning) as well as
at the tactical level (sub- national level and medium-term planning), and implementation of a long-term planning
methodology.

2. Standards, Contracts, Competitiveness (appraised US$4.85 million; actual US$1.22 million). The component was
designed to establish standards of service for public works contracts for greater efficiency and accountability to
investments. Technical assistance included establishment of a methodology for setting, evaluating and updating
MOP's standards of service; development of a database of MOP’s public works contracts and concessions; and
design of model contracts for each primary type of modality of contracting of infrastructure works and each sub-sector.

3. Intergraded Project Management (appraised US$4.0 million; actual US$6.28 million). This component involved
development of a new approach to project management which covered the entire “life-cycle” of a project to help
increase quality of management, availability of investment information and the institutional and individual
accountability for results. It included detailed design of the MOP's project management model and the establishment
of information and software tools to accompany the project management model.

4. Strengthening of Regulation of Infrastructure Works (appraised US$6.23 million; actual US$1.74 million). The
component was designed to develop rules and regulations for the oversight of public works contracts and concessions
and included drafting of an operations manual to lay out the procedures for the oversight, and development of
economic and financial models and their accompanying regulatory accounting manuals for public-private partnerships
for selected infrastructure sectors.

5. Organizational Reform (appraised US$6.5 million; actual US$9.13 million) was to assist the regulatory and
institutional separation of the MOP’s planning, contracting, execution of works and regulatory activities, through
drafting of regulatory and legal text and the establishment of institutional arrangements and support systems.

Administrative costs (15%) and contingencies (5%) (appraised US$5.89 million; actual US$6.66 million) were to be
covered by the Borrower (PAD, Annex 5).

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The total technical assistance (TA) project cost was US$29.2 million at closure, 18% lower than the
appraised estimate of US$35.4 million due to a reduced number of the technical assistance activities that were carried
out by project closure as a result of slow progress in implementation.

Financing: The IBRD's loan of US$11.7 million was disbursed at US$8.25 million by project closure. The remaining
US$3.45 million were cancelled.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$20.8 million out of the appraised commitment of US$23.7
million.

Dates: The project was restructured in 2012 to extend the closing date by one year from January 31, 2013 to January
31, 2014 to complete the on-going technical assistance activities. In 2009, the project results framework was revised;
in particular, one project outcome indicator- efficiency gains from the reform- was dropped during implementation
(PAD, Annex 3, p.29), and five project intermediate-level indicators were moved to the outcome level to correspond to
the five project objectives, with a few modifications (see Section 10a below). The revision of the outcome indicators
were done without formal project restructuring.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
The project development objectives were consistent with the Government of Chile's institutional reform program of the
public sector service delivery for better efficiency and accountability- "Programa de Modernización del MOP". The
Ministry of Public Works (MOP) is the primary agency responsible for planning, developing and constructing public
infrastructure in support of the economic and social development of the country. The Chilean administration identified
specific constraints to the operational and institutional structure of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) in an effort to
improve its investment management process, including the concessions portfolio. The objectives were relevant to the
World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for Chile (FY2007-2010) which specifically mentioned the Government's
Infrastructure Development for Competitiveness Plan and the “Chile Invests’’ program both aiming at increasing public
spending on infrastructure in an effective and sustainable manner. This would entail the development of integrated
infrastructure planning; re-orientation of contracts toward performance or service standards; greater accountability in
project management; and the strengthening of oversight capacity for concessions and public works. The project
development objectives remain relevant to the World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for Chile FY2011-2016,
which focused on promoting sustainable investments.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
The project was designed to assist the Government to put in place a sustainable and integrated approach to the
planning of infrastructure, establish service standards and model contracts and procedures that promote competition
and assign risks appropriately, integrate project management process, develop a regulatory framework for the MOP's
sectors that increases consumer confidence in service provision, and implement a legal and organizational separation
of infrastructure provision responsibilities.

This technical assistance project was complementary to the Bank's Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Public
Works Development Policy Loan (P100854), which was approved in 2007 in the amount of US$30 million and closed
in 2008 with a moderately satisfactory rating validated by IEG. The project under review was to help finance capacity
building and technical assistance in each of the core areas of reform over a five year period following the DPL. Both
operations had similar objectives and the core five areas for support. While the follow- up technical assistance
activities ensured continuity of engagement and added value, some of the intended results sought under the DPL
remained not being achieved under this project. In particular, the policy loan did not leverage the organization reform
laws through the adoption of related laws (which were at a draft stage), and this technical assistance project could not
ensure that the laws are passed during the subsequent six and a half years of engagement.

The TA project had several weaknesses in the relevance of project design in relation to the stated project objectives.
First, the statement of objectives was complex involving five objectives, with three of them being output oriented.
Second, the linkages between the project technical assistance activities, its intended outcomes, and the objectives
were not clear and consistent. A number of activities under one objective contributed or better corresponded to other
objectives, as for example in the case of the amendments to the Concession Law, as well as a number of
interventions under the 2nd objective could also contribute to the fourth sub-objective of the increase in user
confidence in infrastructure service provision.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To assist the Borrower in achieving :

(a) a sustainable and integrated approach to the planning of infrastructure .
Substantial.

    A new methodology was developed for infrastructure investment planning that integrates regional needs and
     infrastructure investments within a development program. A Master Plan and 15 Regional Investment Plans,
     including Water Resource Management, were developed with stakeholder engagement using the new integrated
     planning methodology. By 2013, the new methodology was mainstreamed and 93% of projects were approved
     based on the new integrated planning methodology (this revised outcome indicator did not have a target ),
     corresponding to 99% of the MOP's investment budget for 2014.

(b) levels of service standards for infrastructure as well as model contracts and procedures that promote competition
and assign risks appropriately .
Substantial.

    With regard to the levels of service standards for infrastructure, a series of studies were produced to identify
     explicit service standards in civil works contracts and concessions. MOP incorporated explicit service quality
     standards in five types of works by 2013 and was well advanced in the definition of standards for additional 8
     types of works at project closure (the target was 9). MOP signed more that 120 contracts and concessions with
     explicit service standards (111 contracts of performance- based contracts and ad-measure contracts, comprising
     71.7% of the country’s paved network, as well as five airport concession contracts, concession contracts for three
     hospitals, and five concession contracts of interurban roads with partial definition of service standards). The
     target of 7 concession contracts was overachieved.

    With respect to the model contracts and procedures that promote competition and assign risks appropriately, a
     series of studies were carried out to propose revisions to reduce excessive restrictions that limited the inclusion
     of participants in the registry of consultants and construction companies as well as to reduce discretionary
     decisions. The proposed regulations for public works incorporating new proposals were presented to the
     Contraloría (Chile’s Supreme Audit Institution) in 2012, however not approved as planned by project closure. The
     ICR p.15 reports that some progress was made in standard bidding documents, in particular the handling of the
     two- envelope system and the improvement of the polynomial adjustment method. The project team informed that
     the amendments introduced into the new Concession Law, which was adopted in 2010, reduced the opportunity
     for renegotiations that might help to reduce discretionary decisions and contribute to better allocation of risks.

(c) an integrated project management process .
Substantial.

    A new project management reorganization was supported through development of a digital platform to provide an
     integrated information on project costs, contract management, design and construction issues. Project
     Management Offices were established at the central and regional levels in 2010. The new integrated project
     management system was institutionalized and the results were to be measured through reduction in variance
     between contracted cost and time and actual cost and duration of civil works contracts. In 2010, MOP completed
     the baseline with civil works contracts implemented in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The ICR reports the results for 2011
     and 2012 as follows: (i) for cost overruns, in 2011 there was 32% reduction in variance as compared to the
     baseline, and in 2012 -14% reduction, as compared to the contracts completed in 2011; (ii) for time overruns, in
     2011 there was a marginal (1%) difference in completion time when compared to the baseline, and in 2012- 19%
     reduction, as compared to 2011. The target was 15% for reduction in variance. While the digital project
     management platform could improve administrative efficiency, it is not fully clear to what extent the reduction in
     cost and time of civil works contracts could be attributed to the integrated software.


(d) a regulatory framework for MOP’s sectors of responsibility that increases user confidence in infrastructure
service provision.
Substantial.

    MOP developed and implemented regulatory oversight systems for 20 interurban road contracts, six urban road
     contracts and two public transport corridors. The agency also completed and implemented the necessary forms
     for contract oversight of concessioned airports (e.g. information screens, escalators, bathrooms, etc.), and for
     contract oversight of rural potable water. The oversight systems were tested through surveys in 12 interurban
     concessioned roads, three sections of interurban roads under the administration of the Regional Directorates of
     Roads, and four highways. The ICR p.viii reports that complaints forms were being used for remedial actions.
     Several web platforms were created for the oversight efforts. MOP completed the models for evaluating users’
     satisfaction and the baseline for comparisons for six types of services: (a) interurban concessioned roads, (b)
     interurban not concessioned roads, (c) concessioned urban highways, (d) connectivity of isolated areas’ (d)
     concessioned airports of the primary network, and (e) non-concessioned airports of the primary network (the
     target was 8 types of works). The ICR reports that the system for the evaluation of user's satisfaction continues
     to be developed for other types of services. No evaluation analysis was carried out yet to evaluate such increase
     in user confidence. It is likely that the implementation of regulatory oversight systems for MOP's sectors, along
     with other project interventions such as introduction of the levels of service standards for infrastructure, would
     help improve user confidence in infrastructure service provision.

    The amendments were prepared to the draft Concession Law (Ley de Concesione ) and the Concession Law
     (Ley de Concesione ) was approved and made public as Law 20.410 on January 1st, 2010. The project team
     informed that the new reform reduced the opportunity for renegotiations and contributed to better regulation of the
     dispute and resolution process. Also, under the new law, an independent panel can be created to review
     negotiations and disputes.

(e) organizational separation of the planning , contracting, execution and regulatory functions of infrastructure
provision.
Negligible.

    A number of technical assistance activities in support of the organization reform were carried out during
     implementation (ICR, Annex 2, p.29-33). The laws changing the MOP’s organization- the Superintendency of
     Public Works and the Ministerial Law for Public Works(Ley Organica de Obras Públicas)- were drafted and were
     under Cabinet review at the appraisal stage (PAD, p.19 ). The draft laws were set as a disbursement condition
     under the DPL operation- P100854 (Program Document, p.27). These laws were not however pursued, as they
     were not considered a priority under the new Government administration that came into power in 2010. The
     project team informed that the law required radical changes in the role of MOP for the organizational separation,
     and that the Bank continues to support MOP on institutional strengthening and governance structure through
     reimbursable advisory services (P152393; P128064).
5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, the project's PAD discussed the potential benefits that could be brought by reforms supported under this
technical assistance project. These included improved administrative efficiency of MOP, reduction in cost of subsidies
and renegotiations, lower unit costs of concessions, and operational and investment efficiency of public works
contracts (PAD, Annex 9). At closure, the ICR p.17 claims that the project for a fraction of cost in relation to the
MOP's annual budget achieved some improvements in efficiency and service standards, in particular through
introduction of the integrated management system. As mentioned in Section 4-Efficacy, however, there is no clear
linkage between reduction in cost and time overruns of civil works contracts due to the new integrated digital
management system. Other additional gains were considered to be equity and social gains from the integrated
planning approach but these were not quantified.

Overall, due to slow implementation progress and slow disbursements (budget allocations in 2009 and 2010 were at a
level that put this project at risk), about 30% of the IBRD committed funds were not utilized and cancelled at project
closure, with an extended period of implementation by one additional year.

Efficiency is assessed as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is rated high and that of design is modest. The project contribution to the four of its
objectives was assessed as substantial. The fifth objective, however, related to the MOP's organizational reform and
separation of functions was not achieved and rated as negligible. Efficiency is assessed as modest due to slow pace
of implementation and cancellation of about one third of the loan.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
    MOP has strong ownership of the strategic plans and continues to pursue efficiency and equity gains in planning
and delivery of public works. The Bank continues to support the Ministry of Public Works through reimbursable
advisory services to strengthen the Concession Unit's contract management and oversight and improve organizational
structure.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was designed together with the Bank's DPL for institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Public
Works Development Policy Loan (P100854). This technical assistance project was to help finance capacity
building and technical consultancies over a five year period in each of the core areas of reform identified under
DPL. The preparation was carried out in close consultation with a multi-disciplinary team composed of the MOP
staff with specific responsibilities for each technical area of reform. However, the linkages between some of the
designed project activities and intended outcomes were not consistent (see Section 3b).

The M&E design was complex and had a number of weaknesses, including attribution issues (see Section
10a).The risk analysis underestimated the commitment to the organizational change within the Ministry of Public
Works and the Government as well as strong vested interests of all stakeholders. The risk that the related draft
laws would not be approved by the Congress was rated modest (PAD, p.19). There also seems to be insufficient
communication of the proposed reforms to the MOP staff (ICR, p.10).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory
 b. Quality of supervision:
    Supervision missions were carried out twice a year. As reported by the ICR p.11, the first two years of the
institutional program were implemented without Bank funding. As explained by the ICR p.11, this was due to the
lack of communication with the Ministry of Finance on budgeting of Bank funds. The project team was proactive in
speeding up the uptake of reforms when the Government's support dwindled. In 2011, the Bank and the
Government agreed on a number of actions that put the project back on track. The project team revised the results
framework in 2009 moving the intermediate level indicators to the outcome level with some modifications; these
revisions were not processed formally (see Section 10).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    During preparation, the Government showed strong commitment to the institutional reforms to improve
infrastructure service delivery. In particular, the Ministry of Finance strongly supported the legislative reforms to
improve the delivery of public works contracts and concessions. In the first two years of project implementation,
however, lower than expected budget allocations jeopardized the continuation of the project. In 2011, the
commitment was renewed under the new administration through transferring the management from the Directorate
of Public Works to the Undersecretary of Public Works and the appointment of a new Project Coordinator. The
Strategic Directorate, which was created as a high level coordinating unit to monitor the implementation progress,
began to convene once a month after a 15-month break. The commitment to the organization reform of MOP,
however, was not sustained, and the related draft laws were not adopted.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) was the implementing
agency. At preparation, MOP assigned a qualified team to lead the initiatives under each policy area that worked
the organization of training and other events, strengthening the dialogue and building coordination between
different ministries. According to the ICR p.21, PIU complied with its fiduciary responsibilities. A high turnover of
the PIU coordinators, however, during the first two years of project implementation considerably slowed down the
progress (ICR, p.10). There was also a high rotation of the financial management staff during project
implementation.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project had one outcome indicator- efficiency gains from the reform, which were to be calculated based upon a
basket of core outputs measured for unit prices, adjusted for changes in inflation, fuel and other inputs (PAD, Annex 3,
p.29). The results framework also identified the outcome indicators for the Government's Program, which
corresponded to the reform areas and five objectives of the project, and the results monitoring framework included six
intermediate outcome indicators, with four of them identical to the Government's Program outcome indicators (PAD,
Annex 3). Overall, the results and monitoring framework in the PAD was not consistent in terms of the indicators
(PAD, Annex 3).

In 2009, the project team revised the results framework; the outcome indicator was dropped and four intermediate
outcome indicators were moved to the outcome level (the ICR does not report on the outcome indicator on efficiency
gains from the reform but uses the outcome indicators defined for the Government's Program). A number of indicators
were considered not measurable or fully attributable to the project. The fifth indicator was introduced- the
incorporation of the new planning mythology for infrastructure in the MOP's investment decisions which, as indicated
by the ICR p.4, substituted the Government's Program outcome indicator on the increase in rate of return of
infrastructure projects (the ICR however uses the original indicator to report on the results, i.e., a share of projects
approved based on the methodology). No formal restructuring was carried out, and the revisions in the results
framework were adhered to since 2009.

b. M&E Implementation:
  MOP prepared interim semiannual reports with data on project implementation.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR p.12 says that the process of revision of the M&E and its implementation was useful to strengthen the
dialogue with the counterpart and identify new opportunities for support.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a 'C' category technical assistance project that triggered no safeguards. As per PAD (Annex 10), there was
no involvement in financing of the design of an infrastructure project. In recognition that the Ministry of Public Works
is involved in financing of infrastructure projects, and thus plays a central role in the environmentally and socially
sustainable development of Chile’s economy, the project incorporated the strengthening of environmental assessment
and its integration into the planning process as part of its activities.

The ICR does not provide any details with regard to the safeguard policies.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement : Procurement was slow under the project. As per the ICR p.13, one of the main reasons for
disbursement delays was the role played by Contraloría (auditing body of Chile) who added at least six months to the
procurement process of each consulting work. In the process of project implementation, Contraloría agreed to work on
a standard form for the Bank- financed consultancies. At the Borrower's request in 2012, the Loan Agreement was
revised to update the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines to reflect the versions dated January 2011, which
allows the use of framework agreements, known as “Convenios Marcos” in Chile for the procurement of goods, works
and non-consultant services. In addition, the Bank agreed to raise the maximum limits for using ChileCompra for
consultant services, from US$100,000 to US$300,000. The definition of “Convenios Marco” was amended to include
non-consultant services. Also, the Anti-corruption Guidelines dated October 15th, 2006 and revised in January 2011
applied to the project to be consistent with the updated version of the Bank's Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.


Financial management . MOP had adequate financial management systems, software, and trained staff, however
there was a high rotation of the financial management staff during project implementation that impacted the
preparation of financial reports. In particular, the errors in the financial statements were mainly related to accounting
recording mistakes, presentation of information not required (loan repayments balances included as expenditures),
and information not recorded in the correct period. The National Audit Office, Contraloría, carried out the annual
external audits. The project team confirmed that the issues had been addressed by project closure.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory              Moderately              The fifth project objective related to the
                                                             Satisfactory           MOP's organizational reform and
                                                                                    separation of functions was not
                                                                                    achieved and rated as negligible.
                                                                                    Relevance of Design, as well as
                                                                                    Efficiency are assessed as modest.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low              Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                      Moderately
                              Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                   Moderately             Borrower Performance is rated
                                                             Satisfactory           moderately satisfactory as the
                                                                                    commitment to the MOP's
                                                                                    organizational reforms was not
                                                                                    sustained and the related draft laws
                                                                                    were not adopted. Implementing
                                                                                    Agency Performance is rated
                                                                                    moderately satisfactory for a high
                                                                                    turnover of staff that slowed down the
                                                                                    project progress.
                 Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 One important lesson was selected from the ICR, with some adaptation:

    Institutional change that involves organizational change requires intensive communication and participation of
     all stakeholders as well as strong ownership of leaders to ensure support and continuity of the reforms. A
     strong champion for the reforms is not always sufficient; if there is no uptake by other stakeholders.

The following lesson was identified by IEG:

    Technical Assistance and Development Policy loans could complement each other in leveraging institutional
     reforms, in particular when policy prior actions have sufficient institutional depth to trigger policy/ institutional
     change. This TA project was designed together with a development policy loan (DPL) to provide technical
     support over five years following the DPL. The DPL's prior actions, however, were largely process-oriented; the
     reform laws that were in draft version at the time of DPL have never been adopted- despite Bank's continuous
     engagement through this complementary TA project.

14. Assessment Recommended?                    Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise, however it could be more specific on the developments and results under the reforms pursued by
the project in improving the delivery of public works contracts and concessions in Chile. The linkages between this TA
project and DPL were not sufficiently covered in the efficacy section. More details would be warranted to understand
the regulatory reform, in particular the proposed revisions and amendments into reforming the Concession Law and
implementation of the regulatory oversight systems by MOP. This had to be sought from the project team. One
serious omission is that the efficacy section should have been based on the assessment of the achievement of project
against its development objectives, not the indicators. The ICR should have discussed the economic
analysis/discussion of benefits carried out at appraisal. It should have also discussed if any safeguard policies were
triggered. The ICR does not indicate the date of restructuring in the ICR's datasheet; the final IBRD loan amount is
different throughout the ICR, i.e., Table a of the ICR's datasheet, p.11, and Annex 1. While the ICR quality is rated
satisfactory, this is a marginally satisfactory rating.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
