CIRCULATING COPY
0-y TO BE RETURNED TO RFPnRTq DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. P-1677a-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
FEPASA - FERROVIA PAULISTA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
September 2, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of August 25, 1975)
Currency Unit                       Cruzeiro (Cr¢)
US$1                    =           Cr$8.36
Cr$J.                   =           US$0.120
Cr$1,000=                           US$119.6
Crz1 ,000,000                       US$119, 617



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO FEPASA - FERROVIA PAULISTA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR
A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista, S.A. (the Sao Paulo State Railway
Company), with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for
the equivalent of US$75 million to help finance a third railway project.
The loan would have a term of 25 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 8-1/2% per annum. The term of the loan was determined on
the basis of the average expected life of the assets to be financed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum, entitled "Economic Memorandum of
Brazil" (812-BR), dated July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 21, 1975.  Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The Brazilian economy grew by 9.6% in 197h, continuing the
rapid pace which began in 1968. The average annual rate of growth of
about 10% over the period 1967-74 has resulted in a 60% increase in per
capita income, a 130% increase in manufacturing output and a 350% in-
crease in the value of exports. During much of this period, with
carefully designed fiscal and monetary policies, the Government was
successful in gradually reducing the rate of inflation. Some over-
heating of the economy developed in 1973. While initially the price
effects of this were contained by administrative action, there was a
fairly sharp increase in prices during the first half of 1974 as a
result of the relaxation of controls and higher import prices. Infla-
tion in 1974 was about 29%, compared to an annual average of 18% in
1970-73.
4.        There has been a remarkable broadening and deepening of the
country's productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years, as
well as a considerable strengthening of its external sector. However,
despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a country
with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the
country's income distribution problem and accepts the responsibility
for its alleviation. While like the previous Government it believes



- 2 -
that a high rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of
the poor, it does not believe that the "'trickle down" effects of rapid
growth are enough and is shaping a new positive policy which could be
labeled as "redistribution along with growth." To this end, in addi-
tion to pursuing some of the social programs initiated by its predeces-
sor, the Government is also working on new measures for improving income
distribution. These can be classified into three broad areas: (a)
regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage
policy.
5.        As to regional development policy, the Government has formu-
lated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural development in the
Northeast. This program is designed to raise the productivity and
incomes of small farmers in the Northeast through, inter alia, formula-
tion and execution of integrated rural development projects, including
changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that
the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogenous whole and, there-
fore, uniform standardized programs are inadequate. Active consideration
is being given to a major modification in the state value added tax system
to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to the poorer states, in
order to give the latter the fiscal resources which they badly need to
accelerate social programs, particularly in education. As to the provi-
sion of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of
Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and
to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. It recently
introduced a change in the Social Integration Program (PIS, a social secu-
rity fund) amounting to the introduction of a negative income tax for the
lowest paid workers covered by PIS by entitling these workers, with incomes
presently between about US$60 and US$300 monthly, to withdraw once a year
up to one minimum salary (about US$60) from their PIS accounts. The Govern-
ment is also planning to strengthen the nutrition program which, under the
old Government, got off to a poor start. Greater emphasis is being given
by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income housing, whose beneficiar-
ies will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. BNH is also
developing a site and services program to reach parts of the population
even lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently reorganized
rural extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its
activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and
the newly established federal agriculture research institution (EMBRAPA)
is defining its program to include a selection of crops and farm systems
which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research efforts.
Overall, the Government's recently approved public investment program
for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and
regional development, which account for about 30% of total public invest-
ment. Finally, the Government intends to use wage policy to improve
income distribution or at least to avoid its further deterioration. It
has already revised the forrnula governing the adjustment of the union
wage scale and has introduced an 8-l0N increase in the real minimum wage.



- 3-
6.        Recent international economic developments have caused a
sharp deterioration of Brazil's balance-of-payments performance. The
fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2 billion
to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial
credits, made management of the external sector very difficult in
1974. Further, these external factors caught Brazil at the time when
its econonv was overheated and growth of import demand was very high
because of limitations on domestic capacity in key sectors coupled
with inventory accumulation. The current account deficit which aver-
aged US$1 billion in 1969-73 or 2% of GDP, widened to about US$7 bil-
lion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the sizeable differential between
import growth (about 100%) and export growth (roughly 30%). The bulk
of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of exter-
nal financial credits (about US$3.7 billion on a net basis). However,
starting in September 1974 the tight international market for long-term
funds brought about a slowdown in the flow of financial credits and
there was a moderate drawdown of reserves (about US$1 billion) in the
latter part of the year. Nevertheless, Brazil began 1975 with reserves
of a reasonably comfortable US$5.7 billion.
7.        Measures to cope with the new external situation began in
March 1974, when a new government came into office. The first efforts
of the new economic team were directed at restoring control of aggre-
gate demand to reduce the current account deficit of the balance of
payments to more manageable levels and to halt the acceleration of
inflation. The main instruments used to achieve these goals were the
implementation of a more restrictive monetary and fiscal program, the
imposition of higher import duties and acceleration of the "crawling
pegH exchange rate adjustments. Indications of a tapering off of the
rate of industrial expansion and of inflation since the third quarter
of 1974, as well as of a decline in imports in early 1975, suggest
that the Government policies have begun to take hold.
8.        The Government is committed to a substantial reduction of the
balance-of-payments current account deficit in 1975. To this end, it
intends to continue monetary restraint, a balanced budget and a realistic
exchange rate policy, and to reduce stockpiles of imported intermediate
goods accumulated by public enterprises during 1974. The balance-of-payments
outlook for 1975 is more favorable because prospects for most Brazilian ex-
ports continue to be good, a slowdown in import price increases is expected
and an increase in domestic oil production is likely, thanks to earlier dis-
coveries of off-shore deposits in some Northeast states. The Government's
plan to reduce the trade deficit to about US$2.5 billion in 1975, compared to
US$4.6 billion in 1974, should be attainable if imports can be kept at the
same level as in 1974. However, the expected decline in the trade deficit
in 1975 will be partly offset by a substantial increase in interest and amor-
tization payments as a result of the large external borrowing contracted
during 1974. The Government is monitoring the balance-of payment situation
very closely and in July 1975, it adopted several new measures to help stabi-
lize the reserve level which had continued to decline moderately during the



-4-
first half of 1975, largely as a result of exchange payments related to the
high import level of late 1974 and of measures restricting short-term import
financing from abroad. The new measures establish advance import deposit
requirements on approximately 35% of merchandise imports, while allowing
again short-term external financing for those imports. Overall, the current
account deficit is not expected to exceed the targeted US$5.4 billion. With
expected long-term capital flow, US$4.8 billion would remain to be financed
through a combination of financial credits and utilization of reserves.
9.         In recent years, Brazil has become more closely integrated
into the world economy and its growth has become more dependent upon
and vulnerable to changes in the world economic situation. The slow-
down in the rate of growth of the world economy could have an adverse
impact on prices of Brazilian primary exports and on the rate of growth
of its exports of manufactures. World economic conditions will probably
not permit Brazil to grow during 1975-80 at the 10% pace attained in the
preceding years.  In fact, considerably slower growth is likely during
1975-76 with the very steep decline in OECD economic activity. However,
a growth path averaging 6% per annum still seems feasible over the 1975-80
period. This pace of growth would result in an annual average current
account deficit of US$4.6 billion (US$3.5 billion in 1974 prices). In
financing this deficit, Brazil is likely to look more than ever to multi-
lateral lenders, not only because loans from other sources on good terms
may be somewhat less available than in the past but also because multi-
lateral lenders can act as catalysts to help mobilize other sources of
financing.  It is estimated that to finance the projected growth path,
the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is,
capital other than direct investments and financial credits) required
for the 1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or
three times the average for the 1970-74 period. On the other hand, the
direct import needs of most public investment projects are relatively
low, reflecting the ability of the domestic capital goods industry to
compete successfully under international competitive bidding and the low
direct foreign exchange component of many projects with strong social
impact. Hence, an appreciable part of official external financing would
have to be made available to cover domestic expenditures if Brazil is to
achieve its growth target;s.
10.        By the end of 1974, Brazil's total external debt (public and
private) reached US$17.4 billion, of which two-thirds or US$11.6 billion,
was in the form of financial credits. Despite the large increases in the
level of indebtedness, Brazil's external liquidity steadily improved up
to 1974. Extension of the average term of financial credits and virtual
elimination of short-term credits had a favorable impact on debt struc-
ture. Together with a rapid increase in exports, this resulted in a
decline in the total debt service ratio from 44% in 1971 to 31% in 1974.
The publi-c debt service ratio for 1974 is estimated at around 17%, which
is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of development.
Furtiher, net foreign exchange reserves as of the end of June 1975 were
stilJ larl(o, about US$4.2 billion, equivalent to some four months of the



- 5 -
expected 1975 imports of goods and non-factor services. If an export
growth rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30% in
1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average matu-
rities on new financial credits gradually improve from six to eight years,
the total debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected not to exceed the
level prevailing in the 1969-73 period (about 38%). The ratio for public
debt alone would remain at the present level of around 17%. Nonetheless,
the fact remains that Brazil's external debt service obligations are high.
However, the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over the past
several years ensure that Brazil will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term, while the country's record
of high caliber financial management provides grounds for confidence
in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.       By July 31, 1975, the Bank had approved 55 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,342.5 million, of which 35 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year,
increasing to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74,
reaching US$225 million in FY74, and US$248 million in FY75. Disburse-
ments will continue to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of July 31, 1975 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven
loans were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans
totalling US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel indus-
try. In FY73, six loans amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74, three
loans totalling US$242 million; and in FY75, five loans totalling
US$426.5 million were approved. So far in FY76, one loan of US$60 million
for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program has been approved. We
are working actively with the Brazilians on the preparation of an inte-
grated rural development project in the Northeast state of Rio Grande do
Norte, an agricultural research program, a nutrition project, a second
agro-industries project, a small- and medium-sized industry credit project,
a secondary and feeder road project, a fertilizer project, a project in
support of the establishment of a non-flat steel enterprise, an electric
power distribution project in the Northeast, and an electric power gene-
ration and distribution project in the State of Parana.
13.       Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1974 totalled US$9.2 billion, and of this amount the Bank held
9.6%. The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.3%. If
present trends continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external
public debt outstanding would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share
of public debt service would rise to about 6% while its share of Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt service would remain at the
present level of 2.7%.



-6-
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to
any other country. Since 1957, IFC has made 27 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$262.9 million, of which US$32.5 million has been cancelled,
US$16.6 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of
US$86.9 million, US$64.4 million represents loans and US$22.5 million,
equity. A summary of IFC1s investments up to July 31, 1975 is given in
Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the
Government achieve a number of important development objectives, which
are interdependent and complementary. One of these objectives is to
help Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on its development, a
constraint that has become more critical since the increase in petroleum
prices, by financing projects designed to increase Brazil's export
capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. The proposed rehabilitation and expansion of the Sao Paulo
state railways, the transport mode which is normally the most economical
means of transporting bulk items over long distances, will play an im-
portant role in allowing the Government to achieve its export expansion
and import substitution targets. The balance of payments will also be
aided by the proposed fertilizer project and the agro-industries pro-
gram; the latter is oriented toward exports to supply major quantities
of foodstuffs to the rest of the world.
16.       Another of our lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform, designed, inter alia, to
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically.
This objective is particularly important in our lending in the transpor-
tation sector, especially for railways. The proposed railway program
has been designed to include a series of measures such as tariff adjust-
ments, studies of uneconomic lines and services and technical assistance
which together should lead to a strengthening of FEPASA's operational
efficiency, management and planning capacity, as well as to an improve-
ment of its previously poor financial position which has caused a heavy
drain on public finances. The railway program is also a key element in
the Government's energy conservation program.
17.       Another major objective of Bank lending to Brazil is the
identification and support of projects designed to increase producti-
vity and incomes in the lowest income segments of the population, to
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups and to alleviate
human misery. Project preparation efforts in this area have been inten-
sified, and we hope to present an increasing number of loans with this
objective. We are actively associated with the preparation of new
projects in the fields of rural development, water supply and sewerage,



-7-
and site and services. A project designed to assist Brazil in formulating
a national nutrition program has been appraised. A particular effort is
being made to help Brazil develop effective integrated rural development
projects to increase the productivity of the small farmer in the Northeast,
the poorest section of the country. Furthermore, a project is in prepara-
tion to support agricultural research in the Northeast (with emphasis on
the technology available to small farmers) and to strengthen the federal
mechanism for coordinating and supervising agricultural research. In
general, the more efficient use of public savings should enable the public
sector to devote more resources to the social sector. The FEPASA invest-
ment program includes improvements in the public transport system of
Metropolitan Sao Paulo which will enhance access to employment opportuni-
ties for tens of thousands of low-income inhabitants in the western part
of the metropolitan area.
18.       A final objective of Bank lending to Brazil is to provide part
of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows that
Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. In some sectors, especially in electric power
and steel, the Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain additional
bilateral resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms. In
its lending for railways, the Bank is not financing goods for which
bilateral external financing is readily available on reasonable terms.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN BRAZIL AND THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
19.       The Bank loan for the FEPASA railway project would be the
Bank's twelfth for the development of Brazil's transport sector, and
the fifth for railway development. Except for three small loans in
the early 1950's, the Bank's association with the Brazilian transport
sector dates from 1965. In that year, through a technical assistance
grant of US$1.5 million, the Bank helped finance and supervise a
nationwide Transport Survey. During the past seven years, the Bank
has made five loans for highway construction and maintenance projects,
one loan for a port project (Santos) and two for railway projects.
The latest railway loan (1074-BR) of January 17, 1975 was made to the
Federal Railways (RFFSA) and amounted to US$175 million. Its purpose
is to assist in rehabilitating the federal rail system and in increas-
ing capacity in the form of new lines, realignments, motive power,
rolling stock, etc. This project has just started and tendering is
underway. The proposed loan to FEPASA, the country's second most
extensive railway system, will complement the RFFSA operation.



-8-
Background
20.       The large size and difficult natural terrain of Brazil,
together with an abundance of agricultural land and mineral resources,
have made transportation a particularly crucial element in the develop-
ment of the economy. At present, the main transport flows in the country
are the very large movement of agricultural products and of industrial
products and iron ore within the triangle formed by the cities of Sao
Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte. Intercity freight movement
grew at an average annual rate of 10% between 1960 and 1972, when it
reached an estimated total of 208 billion ton-km. Of this-,-73,0 was by
road, 16% by rail, 11% by coastal shipping and a negligible amount by
air. Intercity passenger transport grew at an average annual rate of
12% over the same period, and in 1972 totalled roughly 150 billion
passenger-km, of which 95% was by road, 3% by rail and 2% by air.
21.       The State of Sao Paulo is the heart of Brazil's industrial
complex, producing 50% of the country's manufacturing output. It is
also a principal agricultural state, accounting for a quarter of the
country's agricultural production, including major export crops such
as coffee, cotton and sugar. Its 18 million inhabitants represent 17%
of Brazil's population, and its urban population, exceeding 14 million,
comprises 27% of the country's urban population.
Transport Investments
22.       In recent years, federal investments in the transport sector
of the country increased rapidly, reaching about US$2 billion in 1974,
or over 20% of total gross fixed investment. About 50% of these trans-
port investments were for highways, with railways accounting for only
about 20%. The composition of the investment program is now being
modified, with relatively more emphasis being placed on railways.
23.       The recent increases in petroleum prices have prompted a
major federal government review of investment priorities and policies.
With the substantial increase in the import bill for petroleum, efforts
have been redoubled to implement development programs aimed at export
promotion and import substitution where Brazil's comparative advantages
make such programs economically justified.   Iron ore, steel and agricul-
tural production are major focal points in this effort. All involve
bulk transport over long distances, for which rail is normally the most
economic and energy efficient transport alternative. Hence, an increas-
ing share of transport investment will be devoted to the rehabilitation
and expansion of the railways, with the aim of providing for the trans-
port by rail of up to 30% of all intercity freight traffic by the end
of the decade, as compared to about 16% in 1972. In order to slow down



- 9 -
the growth in consumption of gasoline during the past two years, the
Federal Government has doubled the price of regular gasoline to the
user to a current level of US$1.10 per gallon.
2h.       Investments in transportation have also represented a major
portion (about 40%) of Sao Paulo state expenditures for fixed investments,
reaching US$980 million in 1974. Over 50% of this amount was devoted to
highways, with railways accounting for about 16%. Although the total
amount to be invested in transportation in the State of Sao Paulo will
not increase significantly in the years to come, the composition of the
program has been modified, and by 1977 Sao Paulo state investments in
railways are expected to account for 30% of state transport investments,
with the highway share declining from 52% to 32%.
Transport Planning and Coordination
25.       At the federal level, responsibility for coordinating and
planning surface transport lies with the Ministry of Transport.
Within this Ministry, the main governmental entity in charge of
transport planning and coordination is GEIPOT -- the Brazilian trans-
port planning agency. GEIPOT was formed in 1965 as a Governmentts
agency and, in 1973, it was transformed to a government-owned and
controlled company. With government financial support, GEIPOT helps
the Government formulate, coordinate and execute its national transport
policy; executes and coordinates the preparation of modal master plans
and other studies; and gives technical assistance to all modal agencies.
26.       At the state level, responsibility for planning and coordi-
nation lies with the State Secretariat of Transport. In the past,
coordination among the various agencies under this Secretariat has
been poor, especially among modes. Although up to now this lack of
coordination has not resulted in any major misuse of funds, more
careful planning and coordination are becoming more urgent, given
the large transport investments contemplated for the future. To
achieve this, the State Government has agreed to prepare a Transport
Master Plan, under Terms of Reference to be agreed upon with the Bank
and which will be partially financed out of the proceeds of the pro-
posed loan (see Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 6
of the draft Project Funds Agreement).
27.       At the metropolitan level, urban transport coordination has
been very weak. In the last year, however, important institutional
measures were taken to improve this situation. The State Secretariat



- 10 -
for Metropolitan Affairs and three related agencies were created,
principally to plan, analyze alternatives, and decide on the execu-
tion of projects in the metropolitan area relating to urban transport,
water supply, sanitation and land use. The decision-making agency
will have municipal representation. The State Government has agreed
that the Secretariat for Metropolitan Affairs will implement measures
to ensure, inter alia, (a) coordination of all future investmants in
mass transport, in particular that mass transport investments in the
metropolitan area that woli d duplicate FEPASA's line would be avoided;
(b) setting up of bus feeder lines to FEPASA stations; (c) operational
integration of the suburban services of FEPASA, RFFSA and the Sao Paulo
METRO; and (d) implementation of a unified fare system (see Section 8
of the draft Project Funds Agreement). The State Government is also
developing satisfactory measures to discourage private automobile use
in the center city and intends to implement these measures gradually
as improvements are made in mass transport services.
The Highway Subsector
28.       Over the last decade, the Federal and State Governments placed
the highest priority within the transport sector on the development of
the highway system. Between 1965 and 1972, the combined federal and
state system increased from 129,400 km to 20h,700 km, of which 60,000 km
were paved. Although increased emphasis is now being given to developing
rail capacity for bulk, long haul cargo -- to orevent what would other-
wise be an imbalance in the transport system -- substantial investments
will still be required to improve the highway system.
29.       The state highway system in Sao Paulo is more developed than
in the rest of the country with about 17,600 km of roads, of which
12,000 km are paved. Most of the network is under the responsibility
of the State Highway Department. Total traffic on state highways has
increased in recent years at about 14% per year, the same rate as in the
rest of the country. Because both the highway infrastructure and the
vehicle fleet are relatively more developed, road/rail competition has
been keener than in most other parts of Brazil, and the share of road
carriers in intercity freight transport is estimated to be well above
the national average of 73%.
Ports and Waterways
30.       There are 36 principal ports in Brazil, but two of the fouir
largest ports are located in the State of Sao Paulo (Sao Sebastiao and
Santos). Sao Sebastiao, through which 22 million tons Dassed in 1973,
is operated under a state concession, and handles mostly crude petroleum
imports destined for Sao FPaulo refineries. Santos, with 16 million tons
in 1973, is the most important Brazilian port for general cargo and b-ulk



- 11 -
grain, and is operated under a federal concession. The State of Sao
Paulo has planning responsibility for further expansion of Sao Sebastiao
but planning in Santos is under the control of the Federal Government.
Improvement and expansion of the Santos Port, especially on the left
bank, are being carried out with the Bank's financial assistance under
Ln. 756-BR of June 1971.
31.       The Government's program to decentralize and reorganize the
administration of major ports and to improve management, accounting and
planning practices -- an effort recommended in the Transport Survey and
initiated in conjunction with the Bank's Santos Port project -- has
proceeded very slowly.  However, the National Department of Ports and
Navigable Waterways has been recently reorganized and converted into a
government-owned enterprise, PORTOBRAS. An overall port study, recently
completed with Bank financing under the Santos Port loan, will lead to
the preparation of a five-year investment program for Brazilian ports.
The National Railways Subsector
32.       The Brazilian railway network comprises about 32,000 km of
lines, of which 25,000 km are operated by the Federal Railway Company
(RFFSA), 5,300 km by FEPASA, and 950 km by Estrada de Ferro Vitoria a
Minas, a department of the Gompanhia do Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), a
large government-owned mining company, carrying mostly iron ore traffic.
The remaining 750 km of railway are owned by five small private companies.
The Federal Government is undertaking studies with a view to merging the
main railway companies in the medium term. In the meanwhile, RFFSA and
FEPASA have agreed to a program of operational integration, which was
approved by the Ministry of Transport in October 1974. In view of sub-
stantial increases in the demand for bulk transport (mainly of agricul-
tural and iron and steel-related products) and in line with the Govern-
ment's new emphasis on the development of the railway system, in 1974
it launched a US$4.5 billion federal railway investment program, for
which Bank financial assistance was provided under Ln. 1074-BR. The
investments under that program are complementary to those proposed for
FEPASA.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project consists of the investments which FEPASA
intends to undertake during the second and thtfd years of its Five-Year
(1975-79) Investment Plan. It was appraised by Bank missions which
visited Brazil in January and April 1975.  A report, entitled "Appraisal
of a Third Railway Project (FEPASA)"f, No. 856-BR, dated September 2, 1975,
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and
Project Summary is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in
Washington in July 1975. The Borrower was represented by a team headed
by Mr. Joao Carlos Pimenta, Director of Planning and Coordination at
the Secretariat of Transport of the State of Sao Paulo.



- 12 -
Justification for Bank Participation
3L4.      The proposed loan to FEPASA would complement the recent loan
to RFFSA, and would lead to considerable overall benefits for the national
rail system. The rehabilitation and expansion of the railways are closely
linked to the very rapid projected increases in demand for rail transport,
stemming mainly from the projected increases in agricultural and industrial
exports and the development of the steel industry. Hence, they form an
integral part of the Government's efforts to ease balance-of-payments
pressures, both by facilitating export expansion and by helping create
a more energy-efficient; transport system. Bank lending to FEPASA would
also support improvements in the operational and financial performance
of FEPASA, to be accomplished through implementation of a firm plan of
action to improve operational efficiency, reduce or eliminate uneconomic
services and increase tariffs. A third objective of Bank assistance to
FEPASA would be to support urgently needed improvements in suburban
passenger services,_which are antiquated and seriously overcrowded.
The suburban areas of the city of Sao Paulo are populated by the lower
income groups of the population who have to commute to the center of
the city for employment.
FEPASA Organization and Management
35.       FEPASA was created in 1971 by the merger of five separate
railways. The State of Sao Paulo owns more than 95% of FEPASA's shares.
The company is managed by a Board of Directors selected by the legisla-
ture of the State of Sao Paulo. The President of FEPASA is Chairman of
the Board, and the other Directors are the heads of the Production,
Financial and Administrative, Planning and Personnel Departments. The
management is capable and dedicated and is made up of experienced rail-
way men as well as men with backgrounds in the private sector.
36.       FEPASA has steadily reduced its staff, mainly through normal
resignations and retirements, from 35,900 in 1971 to 26,000 in 1974.
By the end of 1979, the staff is expected to stabilize at about 28,000.
As low pay scales have contributed to losses of much needed qualified
workshop workers, FEPASA is now preparing a study with a view to re-
vising its salary structure. By December 31, 1976, FEPASA will adopt
revised manpower policies, including a new salary structure (see
Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
FEPASA Network and Productivity
37.       Of FEPASA's total network of 5,300 route-km, about 70% is
meter gauge and 30% broad gauge (1.6 m). Alignments are often poor
with sharp curves and steep gradients. Renewals have not been carried
out sufficiently and a substantial program of track improvement is
needed. About one-third of FEPASA's fleet of 481 locomotives consists
of electric units. There are about 120 locomotives with more than 17
years of service that are earmarked for scrapping up to 1979. With
new acquisitions of about 200 locomotives by 1979 and improvements in
utilization, the fleet should be adequate to handle the expected growth



- 13 -
in traffic. With the purchase of about 4h800 new freight cars, the com-
mercial car fleet would be adequate at about 16,000 units in 1979. The
intercity passenger car fleet is adequate for present and forecast passen-
ger traffic. However, considerable investments will be required and are
planned to modernize suburban passenger services.
38.       Overall operating performance of FEPASA has improved since its
establishment, but there is still room for further improvement. In con-
junction with the proposed project, which includes substantial technical
assistance, FEPASA has agreed to take the steps necessary to pursue a
Program of Action so as to meet time-phased targets for improved produc-
tivity indices (see Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Further-
more, the State of Sao Paulo has agreed to undertake a study of uneconomic
lines and services (as part of the Transport Master Plan mentioned in para-
graph 26) with a view to eliminating or reducing such services (see Section 6
of the draft Project Funds Agreement and Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
The Five-Year Investment Plan
39.       To rehabilitate the Sao Paulo state railways system, to cope
with the increased traffic and to improve the efficiency of its operations,
FEPASA, with the assistance of consultants (MONTOR of Brazil and SOFRERAIL
of France), prepared a Five-Year Investment Program (1975-79) estimated to
cost about Cr$12.5 billion (US$1,563 million) including contingencies, and
with a foreign exchange content of about US$685 million equivalent. The
major components of the Plan are investments for suburban services (30%),
new lines and realignments (26%), rolling stock (21%) and permanent way
(8M). FEPASA's Investment Plan is basically sound. However, it contains
a few items, representing about 10% of the investments, whose economic
justification has not yet been proven. The Government and FEPASA have
agreed that these investments (a new line of 62 km between Helvetia and
Sorocaba, the upgrading of the 90 km line between Mayrink and Evangelista
de Souza, a large railway yard in metropolitan Sao Paulo, and some of the
additional freight cars expected to be delivered in 1978 and thereafter)
would be carried out only after their economic viability has been studied
and agreed with the Bank. FEPASA has also agreed that major revisions of
the Plan will be made only after consultation with the Bank (see Section
1.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Project and Proposed Loan
40.       The project consists of a two-year tranche, 1976 and 1977, of
contracts to be awarded under the Five-Year Investment Plan and project
cost is estimated at US$762 million (including physical and price contin-
gencies) with a foreign exchange component of US$367 million, or about 48,b. The
main investment components in the project are listed in Page 1 of Annex III.



- 14 -
41.       The proposed Bank loan of US$75 million would be used to help
finance the Durchase of rails, switches and permanent way equipment;
the modernization of 60 eLectric locomotives and about 2,6o0 freight
cars; materials for new lines and realignments; workshop equipment; and
miscellaneous investments in suburban services, station and yard equip-
ment, signalling and telecommunications, technical assistance, and studies.
'While investments in suburban services are the major item in the FEPASA
project, they represent only about 5% of the proposed loan, because other
external financing has already been arranged for much of this investment.
-Physical contingency of 2.5% and price contingency of 19.9% have been included
in the proposed loan.
FEPASA's Financial Position
42.       Since FEPASA was established in 1971, its operations have generated
financial deficits, although the losses have been declining in real, as well
as in current terms. These operating deficits have been met by the State
Government Treasury, which contributed about US$18 million equivalent in
1974.  The working ratio (the ratio of expenses, excluding depreciation, to
revenues) improved from 158 in 1972 to 123 in 1974, excluding the government
subsidy; and from 139 to 114, including the subsidy. These improvements
were accomplished principally by increasing freight rates by 40% in real
terms between 1972 and 1974 and by traffic growth. At present, the level
of freight rates is fairly high relative to trucking rates in the area and
probably cannot be increased (except to offset inflation) until services are
improved. FEPASA is reviewing its tariff structure and has agreed that, by
December 31, 1976, it will increase freight rates and passenger fares as
required to cover, as a minimum, long-run variable costs (see Section 5.06
of the draft Loan Agreement).
h3.       The Government and FEPASA's management are determined to
continue to improve FEPASA's financial position over the next five
years. By 1979, without subsidies, the working ratio should reach
96, and the operating ratio, 119. These improvements are assumed to
be achieved without real increases in freight rates and intercity
passenger fares. The improvement in FEPASA's financial situation
will result principally from (i) improved utilization and availability
of the relatively newer and high capacity fleet of rolling stock;
(ii) increases in freight traffic that will permit the allocation of
heavy railway fixed costs over a broader traffic base; (iii) elimina-
tion or reduction of uneconomic railway services, such as intercity
passenger services and less-than-carload freight traffic (see para-
graph 35); and (iv) the effective transfer by 1977 to FEPASA of the
10% surcharge on freight rates for goods other than those for export
which currently goes to the Ministry of Labor. If lower tariffs or
if uneconomic lines and services are retained at the decision of the
Federal and/or State Governments for social or other reasons, the
Governments have agreed to expand their respective subsidy systems
by December 31, 1977 to cover the difference between the avoidable
costs and revenues from those services which the Government concerned
chose to keep in operation (see Sections 3.08, 3.09 and 5.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement, Section 7 of the draft Project Funds Agreement
and Section 2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 15 -
44.       Several other actions are planned to improve FEPASA's finan-
cial system. FEPASA has agreed to revalue, by the end of 1978, its
depreciable fixed assets to reflect present values less accumulated
depreciation, and to charge depreciation on properly revalued assets
beginning in 1977. Assets have heretofore appeared at historical cost
and no depreciation has been charged in its accounts. In addition,
FEPASA will retain an independent auditing firm (see Sections 5.02
and 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financing Plan
45.       The projected cash flow and financing plan for 1975-79,
assuming execution not only of the project, but also the items in
the Investment Plan to be executed later in the five-year period,
is as follows:
1975-1979
Millions of 1975 US$     %
Requirements
FEPASA's operating deficits            91              5
Estimated investments
(excluding price contingencies)   1,298            67
Debt Service                          561             28
Total                             1,950            100
Sources of Funds
FEPASA's net internally generated
funds                               106              5
Federal Government                      72             4
State Government                       979            50
Domestic loans                        322             17
Foreign loans, including proposed
Bank loan                           471             24
Total                             1,950            100
46.     The financing plan depends to a considerable extent on State
Government contributions. Of the US$471 million expected to be obtained
from foreign sources, FEPASA has already arranged or is negotiating
foreign financial and suppliers' credits amounting to about US$390 mil-
lion equivalent in Europe, Japan and the United States. The Federal
Government intends to provide financial support for specific items in
FEPASA's Investment Plan in which it has a special interest. The State
Government has agreed to provide funds, or arrange financing, to com-
plete the remainder of the project satisfactorily and in a timely manner,
and the Federal Government has agreed to provide further financing as
well, should that prove necessary (see Section 4 of the draft Project
Funds Agreement and Section 2.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 16 -
47.       FEPASA has expressed interest in obtaining, in association
with the Bank, foreign financing at medium term to supplement the pro-
posed Bank loan and in substitution for some of the borrowing which
FEPASA would otherwise undertake within Brazil. We have informed
prospective lenders, as well as FEPASA, that we would be prepared to
recommend to the Executive Directors our association with them or other
co-lenders, if this would result in better terms for the Borrower than
it could otherwise obtain in international markets and if the loan
agreements were concluded not later than six months after the approval
of the proposed Bank loan. The form that this association might take
is described in my memorandum to the Executive Directors of May 29, 1975
relating to the loan to Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (R75-103/1). If
and when such a co-financing operation materializes we will return to
the Executive Directors with full details regarding the proposed private
loans and appropriate recommendations for amendments in the Bank Loan
Agreement.
Project Execution
48.       With the technical assistance included in the proposed project and
adequate financial resources, the project should be implemented in a satis-
factory and timely manner. FEPASA's management is capable, and it utilizes
external contractors and specialized consultants whenever needed. All new
construction and part of the track renewals are, or will be, contracted with
firms under FEPASA's close supervision. Only a small portion of the invest-
ments contained in the project are to be carried out directly by FEPASA
personnel. Terms of reference for technical assistance would be agreed with
the Bank, and the selection of consulting firms would be made according to
usual Bank procedures.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       All goods financed under the proposed loan would be acquired on
the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank' s
Guidelines on Procurement. Local bidders would be granted a margin of pref-
erence by adding 15% (or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower)
to the CIF value of foreign bids. Brazilian firms are likely to compete for
most items, and, since they are often competitive in the world market, it is
possible that as much as 40% of the orders may be awarded locally. The local
cost component of orders placed in Brazil is not expected to exceed US$12.0
million or 16% of the proposed loan, because domestically produced goods of
the kind to be financed by the Bank include a substantial foreign exchange
component. The total estimated foreign exchange component of the project
considerably exceeds the foreign financing now foreseen, including the pro-
posed loan, so that part of the needed foreign exchange will have to come
from Brazil's own resources.



50.       For imported goods, disbursements would be made on the basis of 10QL of
foreign expenditures. For bids won by local suppliers, disbursements would be
made on the basis of 100% of ex-factory costs net of local taxes.   The Bank
would also finance 65% (the estimated foreign exchange component) of the
total cost of technical assistance. Up to US$300,000 would be disbursed
to reimburse FEPASA for expenditures incurred prior to the signing of the
proposed Loan Agreement, but after April 1, 1975, for professional services
and technical assistance for train and station operations and management
information and data processing (see oaragraph 3 of Schedule 1 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The early start of these programs was necessary to facili-
tate the implementation of the project.
Economic Evaluation
51.       The investments in the Plan will improve the operating efficiency
of the FEPASA system and expand its capacity to meet the future demands of
traffic. The overall economic rate of return for the total Investment Plan
is estimated at 21%. There is a 90% probability of having a rate of return
above 18%. Economic evaluation was also undertaken for each of four general
categories into which the Plan is divided: (a) suburban services; (b) new
railway infrastructure in the greater Sao Paulo area excluding (a); (c) other
new lines and realignments; and (d) the rehabilitation and modernization
program. The returns on individual categories range from 16% to 28%. The
items in the Investment Plan which are subject to further review (see para-
graph 39) have been excluded from the economic evaluation for lack of appro-
priate cost-benefit data, although there is enough evidence at this stage
to support their tentative inclusion in the Plan.
52.     FEPASA's planned investments in its suburban services are a
component of the least cost solution to the mass transport problem of
the Sao Paulo metropolitan area. FEPASA's suburban railways serve some
of the poorest sectors of Metropolitan Sao Paulo and the facilities are
at present antiquated and seriously overcrowded. Passenger traffic on
FEPASA's lines is expected to increase fivefold by 1985. In the economic
evaluation, the following benefits were quantified: (a) lower operating
costs as compared to a bus alternative; (b) time savings due to higher speeds
than for alternative bus transport; (c) system benefits from the inte-
gration of FEPASA and RFFSA suburban services (increase in average trip
length): and (d) avoidance of greater urban congestion which would further
increase bus operating costs. In addition, important benefits would
accrue through improved metropolitan transport coordination; more intensive
and efficient use of the existing bus fleet; and avoidance of additional
urban congestion and air pollution from buses and cars. On the basis of
quantified benefits alone, the rate of return of the suburban services
component is 21%.



53.       The new railway infrastructure in the Sao Paulo area includes
widening of the gauge in the Serra (steep hill) section of the Sao Paulo-
Santos corridor, building the southwest portion of the Sao Paulo rail
ring between Jurubatuba and Maua, and developing a large railway yard
near the ring. The widening of the Serra section of Sao Paulo-Santos
would increase the capacity and safety of rail transport in this impor-
tant corridor by providing an alternative to the RFFSA rail line, the
use of which is expected to reach saturation by the end of the decade.
The rail ring would connect the main industrial area of Sao Paulo to
the exisiting rail network. It would thus provide an alternative to
trucking for the manufacturing plants of the area. The yard is needed
for classification of railroad cars originating in or destined to the
Sao Paulo area and trans-shipment operations between rail and road car-
riage. The economic rate of return of these new infrastructure invest-
ments in the Sao Paulo area is 28%.
5L.       In addition to the above, eight investments for about 650 km
of new lines and realignments are included in the Plan; six are realign-
ments, one is a new link (Juquia-Cajati), and one is a major track re-
habilitation and upgrading work (Mayrink-Evangelista de Souza). As
mentioned in paragraph 39 above, two of these proposed line investments
(for 150 km) are included only tentatively in the Plan and will be car-
ried out only after their economic justification has been proven. The
remaining six investments in this group were started several years ago,
before FEPASA was incorporated, and their construction lagged principally
because of fund shortages. In all cases, their early completion is
justified.
55.       In order to adequately serve the expected traffic in 1979,
estimated to be 62% higher than in 197a, FEPASA will need not only to
increase its transport infrastructure but also to rehabilitate and renew
much of the railway's existing lines, plant and equipment, which received
insufficient attention in the past. Total savings from this part of the
program are expected to yield a 16% rate of return. Track rehabilitation
works for about 1,250 km of the FEPASA system are well justified and in-
cluded in the Investment Plan, but the rehabilitation of about 300 km of
FEPASA's lines (the sections Sao Jose do Rio Preto-Santa Fe and Adamantina-
Panorama), where traffic is very light and the costs of track rehabilita-
tion might outweigh the expected benefits, will be conditional upon the
results of the Transport Master Plan (see Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
56.       The locomotive and rolling stock acquisition program is an impor-
tant element of the modernization program. The number of freight cars and
locomotives FEPASA intends to purchase over the 1975-79 period is adequate,
provided measures are taken to reduce the daily average number of FEPASA
wagons outside the FEPASA system; this problem will be carefully reviewed
by FEPASA. Orders for freight cars to be delivered in 1978 and thereafter



- 19 -
will be based on a revised plan to be discussed and agreed with the
Bank (see Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The electrifi-
cation of high density sections, the installation of Central Traffic
Control (CTC) and the construction of yards are necessary to improve
the efficiency of rail operations and lower operating costs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and FEPASA - Ferrovia
Paulista, S.A., and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the Project Funds Agreement between the
State of Sao Paulo and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of special interest are referred to in paragraphs
26, 27, 36, 38, 39, 43, 44, 46, 50, 55, and 56.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 2, 1975






ANNEX i
page 1 of 3 paips
OD0NTh.T DATA_ BRAZIL
A                                                   P96Sbi5  Ol1N                                DEiNS72  ~ITY
8, RIL'965 km I          R.25!nUllium (mid-1972)                                ~~~~~~Per klotf arable land
R.ference C-n.tries
Mi   WMlf UsS (ATLAS BADSI) A.                                             610/ a            750Ia       760 A       2,320 /
RE1 Mrate (per tdon.and)                                    1.?          38 It a          4.5 Ia       21/A          19.2 lb
Crude death ret. (par thous.and)                                 12           10                i7.         lo1075        6.6 75
Infant mortality oat. (Par thousand Ume" births)                180          110               61 7-        4.0 7        12.4. 
Life eiWentanny at birb (year.)                                  5o           61 If            65 T.        70 7-         72
Go-e. oaad,nti     r ota                                        2.6          2.6              3.1 In       1.1. Ic       1.0
fPume.latoagrowh    a.  a3.0                                                 2.9 /c           3.5 7?-      1.3 T.       1.1 /c
PP-opltion growth rate - rbe                                      6/d          57Wd              57We'        275         37
Ape atruoture (peoneot)
8-11.                                                         43          4.2 /             4.6I         28         2.0l
65" a5 ve                                                      1           557TW5                        63          68.8 7
Age Denedenoy ratin /4                                                           0                    1.                     .27
Fx.n..ic DGPGftd                                  ~~~~~~~0.9    08r 71.0                      0.6 oj .1 75-
-onni  nenao  ratio                                                      101.62
Urban population an prernnt of total                             S6o                                                    Y    _
P..ily planning. Mo. nf aceptore noolatien (thona.)        .                 250                                            _
Wn. nof onre (% of eaorisd wosea,)             .          1.6
'Y%   Mbor forn     (thoneande)                                22,700      29,600 ~j         13,0(X)       1,100 If    53,200 IA.
Parnentage employed in agriroltore                             54.         4.1               10           17 7?      19.1
Percneotage ormopinynd                                                       2If2             4            9 7F       1.1.
PErn60'TRUiiEIWainocaarecaiad by hib.et 5S                        28Ab         33 /k            36A1         21 /i
Peroet of neItlinnl Inco..eci,ed by highast 20%517                          62                 67i        17
Peont of ntional Income reoeirad by lnweeet 20%                  4.7         37                4.7         1.
Percent of national inom   reevdby lowest 40%                    12N 7        l10o             11          ii.
PUSztThIETOF U LAND) OW0(OHIP
% owned by top lop of owner,re
% -n- -d by awll.ot 10% of onono                                  .
BRAITH ANU NUMITIBR
FPepeAtim onpr spician                                        2,170        1,950            141.40         91.0          880
Poynlation per corming pr0.00                                     .        3,300  t.2       150          3,560          2.
Poaaio  per hospital be                                      275         260               930         160 In         80
Per :epita calorie supply as % of   eqnirnaoaA,                 102          109              flO          107           106
Per napita protein -npply, ntotl (gron. P., dayT)L6              61           64.               65          96            76
Of which, ani-al and pule.                                     38           39               28           61.          4.5
Ueath rate 1-4. yearn LZ                                          .           .                 11         1.3           1.0 lb
El  dk   por ay nooo enr1olent ratio                         100 I       130I             o101        un 8I          100
Adjusted     enday      .0001 enrollment ratio                   U 1          27 Y.A           23                         90
year. nf        Dsooia  Provided, first and mOenad leve          13           13                12          12            12
?nnAtlan"l     I.nrafl t as % of eno. nobol1 enonleet            19           17                24.I        22 I          20
Adult literacy rat. It                                           61           68 /a            81. T,       91            99 oa
E r.No. at p.weee p.r room, (orban)                            .          1.0               2.2 ~         .1.0 If
Peroat of pnoa.td undt. without pip.d water                       ..          67 'n7n6. t__
A-ona to electricity (an % ot total p.pulation)                               1.                ' 9(
Fernent of ftral poplaUtim  connoected to elentrinity             . 
reiveon P.r 1000 pepultion                               66           61Ia            301AI        507 Ia       658Ia
Pasenger care per 10D popelatimo                                   7          29 75             28 7        1.2 7?f      117 7W
Rlant'in Poern oneenptine (khA P...)                            328          51..7W           662 7W       836 7       3,909 7W
Newsprint coneco.ption P. c. kg par year                        3.3          2.3 T.           1.8 7W       7.1. 7W       9.6 T.
Notes, Pig,.,.. rater either, in the latent prioda or in.           acounto of anniro-t.1a tepra-tore,      0dy naighta, and-
the lateet yearn, Latent priodn rfter in principle to               diatribotmo   by age and eeC of nation1 popaatinna.
the Yeare 1956.60 or 1966-70; the lateet yea"n io pr.a-         /6  Prnt.iO etonandre (requirements) for all nountri.a as eatob-
niple in 1960 and 1970.                                              lihahd by BUSA Eoonono Research Serima proide for a minin.U
The Per Capita GNP eatinate is at earket pricea for               Allowanca of 60 gea. nf total protein per day, and 20 graws ot
year. otO.o tha  1960, naloolintd by the occa -ovreino           anina and pulne protein, of which 10 gran. shoold he anlmel
teoniq.o .ea  the 1972 W'orld Bnnk Atlac.                       protein.   Thew  eadad     are cnwsat lower than tho.. of 75
Averag   neber of daughter. p.r anano of raprodantiee             voa    of itetl Protein and 23 prace nf anl.eal protein  es
ase.                                                             a-rape for th. wnrld, propond by PAO in the Third VDrld Pond
L.Peroplation growth ratea ar. for the decadesanrenng in           SOi'ey.
1960 and 1970.                                                   Sooee studies hare suggested that crude death ratea of etldrn
Ratio nf population undar 15 and 65 and aver to p.pula-         age. 1 througt 4. ey be ... d anafirst approcieation, inde   ot
tion of sage 15-61 tnr ag   dapondacY ratio ed in labor         ealantrition.
force of age. 15-61 for e-onndt   depaendency rmtio.        /8   Peroatoge enollod of corresponding poplation of school1 ag
FAO1 reference standarda represent pbyalologoal me-                 ndefined for each coantry.
qoirementn for normal activity and health, taking
In   1972;  lb   191     /po  1960-72;  Id   Urban an   oburbn    onoa. of adrinistrativ   center. ot  n.oi.ipaIjti.n and districts;
/aI    LoTte      of20     or   oe;   Tf   Rstinate;  &     1973;  lb   Cities (shi) ha"in   30,00  or more inhabit-ntn;
7?  Nacloding Indian jungle populatioan;   a    Band on a eanple tabulation of neose rturma;       A    Boonomioally action
population;  /I    Hooneholdo;  /    1969;   /n   1967; I.    Hospital pernonnal;   /P    1968;  Lg  Definition unknown;
Ir   Urban; dj     Eotinate boned on n aple tabulation of census raturns.    Date rafer to dwellings;   /t   Inside or -taiodo;
-  I    Including nnoi-pe.vonaot doellingo;   Iv &1970-75; I.      Data raero to ho.aing unte;_ lx      1965-70;  IY   Grons
~rollment which inclodan no-rge etodento;        _The net enro1lenent ration in 1971 nero 14% & 18% for banic and
aecondary edcation respectively;    lao    15 yrear  and over;  lab   Inside only;la       hoeBaed on a 20 porcent nanple
tabulation of ceceun ratoroo
o  This -oparoo with the Bard Atlan figure of US$530 tor 1972.     Th. Ailao fig-r done nout rafleot   -eoot revinion ic
national accouto which ban ronult.d in 20% increase     in entieate   of GDP.
Japan h.e bea selected ee an objective country oiboe the Omacilian Goer-aent ban shown porticalar intar-t in Jap-an
dne-lop.ental experiencn; elan, the tao gev-m.ceto have oodooted joint ntudiea to identify possibl. fut-r         cooi
probl"ea of Brasil on the banie of the experianee of Japa.
R6 CoY Ih, 19-I5



ANNEX I
EC0siC DEVEWPMT D4TA                                                        Page 2 of 3
(In milliona of U.S. dollars)
Actual          j"t4ated             d       Averase A   aal Grovth Rate         As porcent of GDY
1971     1972iT97j         1974    17975    1980    1970-74    1974-76    1976-80    1970      1974      1980
NATIONAL ACCOU8 Ll A1unta in 1973 priose ad exehanne rates
Gross domestic product             62,710   69,608   77,891   85,369   88,357   121,700    11.0        4.2        7.0      100.6    100.6    100.7
Gain  from term of trade(+)         - 609    - 598      -      - 469    - 965     - 819      .          .          .       - 0.6    - 0.6    - 0.7
Gross dmestic inc                  62,101   69,010   77,891   84,900  105,278   120,881    11.0        3.7        7.1      100.0     100.0   100.0
Imports (incl. NI'S)                5,199    6,357    7,577   10.073    9,183   11,264     24.0       -5.6        5.7        7.6     11.9      9.3
Exports (iuport capacity)           4,098    5,218    6,596    5,987    6,705   10,784     10.2       10.2       10.6        7.2      7.1      8.9
Resource gap                        1,101    1,139      981    4,086    2,478      480       .          .          .         0.4      4.8      0.4
Consumption                        50,437   54,547   61,529   66,578  69,020    91,586      9.7        3.0        6.5       82.2     78.4     75.8
Investment                         12,765   15,602   17,343   22,408   20,910   29,775     22.0        0.5        7.1       18,2     26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                   11,664   14,463   16,362   18,322   18,432   29,295     16.4        6.7        8.9       17.8     21.6     24.2
National savings                   11,078   13,784   15,655   17,722   17,482   27,933     17.0        5.8        9.0       16.9     20.9     23.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             ADmnal data at current prices                                                  As percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                     1,241    1,734    2,143    3,108    3,569     7,522    31.0       14.3       16.7      42.8      24.8     36.1
Intermediate goods (excl.fuels)   1,210    1,451    2,233    5,091   4,636      7,343    57.0       -5.4       12.6      35.2      40.6     35.3
Fuels and related materials         316      449      727    2,812    3,022    4,344     63.0        5.6        8.5       9.4       22.4    20.9
of which:  Petroleum              251      344      605    2,495    2,650    3,711     71.0        4.3        8.1       6.9       19.9    17.8
Consumption goods                   478      598    1,089    1,519    1,221    1,610     42.0      -11.0        6.7      15.0       12.1     7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)   3,245    4,232    6,192   12,530   12,448    20,819    50.0        1.9       12.5     100.0      100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (excl. fuels)    2,315    3,063    4,718    5,606    6,987   13,142     25.0       17.0       14.4      84.8       70.4    61.2
Fuels and related materials          19       36       52       65       70      101     55.0        7.4        7.7                 0.8      0.5
of wbich: Petroleum                 8       16       16       30       30       40       .          .          .        0.4        0.4     0.2
Manufactured goods                  570      892    1,429    2,297    2,793    8,231     55.0       22.5       24.0      14.8       28.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)   2,904    3,991    6,199    7,968    9,850    21,474    31.0       18.6       17.7     100.0      100.0    100.0
Merchandise trade indices                               1973-100
Export price index                   67       73      100      134      140      201     18.4        4.6        8.2
Import price index                   77       82      100      145      158      216     14.3        7.9        6.4
Terms of trade index                 87       89      100       93       88        93
Export volume index                  71       88      100       96      113       172     10.0      13.7        8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTDR /2               Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                        As percent of GDP
Agriculture                          8,81  9' s,      9,535    d,-W6   10,760    13,995      6.8       4.5        5.5      14.6       15.1     14.3
Industry and mining                15,875   18,066   20,776   22,480   23,222    32,805     12.0       4.2        7.7      32.7       32.8     33.6
Services                           25,554   28,532   32,140   35,620   36,860    50,777     11.1       4.3        7.0      52.7       52.1     52.1
Total                              50,279   55,810   62,451   68,446   70,842    97,577     11.0       4.2        7.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                         Annual data at 1973 Prices and exchange rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                  6,168    7,316    8,629    9,757   10,399    15,540     16.9       6.2        9.0       9.4       11.5     12.8
Current expenditures              3,553    3,558    4,227    4,577    5,032     7,107      8.5       9.1        6.9       5.9        5.4      5.9
Budgetary saving                  2.615    3,758    4,402    5,180    5,367     8,433     28.0       3.5       11.0       3.5        6.1      7.0
Other public saving                3,393   3,669    4,832    5,825    6,348    10,510     15.5        9.0      10.7       5.0        6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment    6,404    8,037    8,705    9,667   10,344    15,198     15.8       7.5        8.0       9.8       11.4     12.6
US$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR             at 1973 prices and ER
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                        1971-74  % of Total
Social Sectors                           4,504       11.3
Agriculture                                187        0.5
Industry and Mining                      6,060       15.2
Power                                    5,499       13.8
Transport and Communications              7,384      18.6
Regional development                      1,441       3.6
Other '3                                14.712       37.0
Total expenditure                       39,787      100.0
FINANCING
Public sector savings                  33,674      84.6
Foreign borrowings (net)                5,762      14.5
Domestic borrowings                      351        0.9
Total financing                       39,787      100.0
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                Total labor force                 Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In millions      7, of total       1960-70     In U,S. dollars     2 of average        1960-70
1960    1970    1960    1970   Growth rate      1960      1970     1960    1970     Growth rate
Agriculture                          12.2   13.1    54.0    44.4         0.7          --       402      --       33         __
Industry                             3.0     5.3    13.3    18.0         5.8         --      2,222      --      182         --
Service                              7,4    11.1    32.7    37.6         4.1          --     1.706      --      140         --
Total                                22.6   29.5   100.0   100.0         3.1          --      1,220     --      100         --
not applicable
not available
L   The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 census. GDP in 1970 has been revised upward
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost.
/3 Includes financial investment.
May 14, 1975



BALACR OF PAThS'TB, BmixElL ASSISTACE AND DEPT Page 3 of 3
(In million of U.S. dollars at current prices)
A4tu  tisle-td                               Pro ited
1971      197       lm          1W974     1975      1976      1977       1978        1979       1980       1985
SUSHAI't B    S OF P   4Y8N
Unports (incl. t8)                     3.175     4,272     6,396      8,368    10,614    12,116     14,001     16,422     19,507     23,274     52,488
ImDrted {incl, B8            4.        IJ.fl      ?J        14.585    14.S36    15.228    1LM        1   6       20,95      24,308     50 264
i=ii  (ebalnce71-l)                   -.83      -l        -   i 91   -,7       -3,922    -3,112    --2,833     -2,2       -i45       -1,034      2,224
Interest (net)                        - 302     - 359 * - 514        - 650     -1,273    -1,469     -1,747     -2,009     -2,272     -2,503      -3,053
Direct investment incnme              -166         202    -220       - 240     -  270    -  304     - 342      -  384     - 432      - 486       - 877
Workers' remittance                       -         -         -          -          -         -         -          -          -           -          -
CurreaC Transfer. (net)                   14         5        27         23        4          50        50         50         50         50          50
aganMenon current account             -,g       -  1        ~ -6     -6,83     -SE .2    -4         _A         -4.6       -4T        -3.97       -1.656
Private direct investment                168       318       940        845       940      1,035     1,135      1,275      1,435      1,615      2,908
Medium- and long-tern loan
Disbursements                          835     1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025     2,226      2,443      2,654      3,004      3,397      6,218
-R       ts                         - 441                     -        720    -  779    -  745    -   793     -   6      -1,062     -1.282     -2.667
Net di.onrseiments                                 5                  1080         451,786                                            2,115       3,
Finncial credits
Disbursements                        1,442     3,396     3,151      5,017     3,819     4,509      5,054      5,258      5,386      5,587      1,524
- ena Dento                         -  641     - 860     -105j      -1.300    -1 579    -2.190     -24946     -3.715     -4,130     -.500      -4404
Net disbursements                        38!      2,       2,093      3,717                2,519     2          t                     1,080      -2,880
Capital transactions n.e.i.              504       626       377        194                        -               -          -          -           -
Change in reserves (--increase)       - 560     -2,565    -2,428      1,049     1,000         -         -          -      -  519     - 836       -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COM8IMElTS                                                                                                    Actual               Estimated
1971       1972        1973       1974
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                      Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                   256       455       199                   and. disbursed               4,122      5,509      6,496      9,096
IDB                                   133        180       250                 Interest on public debt          211        296        440        619
Governments                            1"        249       270                 Repayment on public debt         608        758        953      1,081
Suppliers                              324       350       775                 Total public debt service(groes)819       1,054      1,393      1,700
Bonds                                   -         -         80                 Other debt,aervice (gros,        607        820      1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                           121       100      _I_                  Total debt aervice (net)Li     1,384      1,744      2,242       2,670
Total mediun- and long-term loans      1,0       1,                              Burde  on export erings 
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                   Actual debt outstandinR on March 31. 1974   Public debt ervice                25.8       24.7        20,6       17,4
Disbursed oaty             Percent Total debt service                 43.6       40.8        34.0       31.2
IBRD                                               708                   10.0    TDS + Invest. Inc.                48.8       45.6       37.3        34.0
IDB25
Goernments                                       1,830                   25.8    Average Terms on
Suppliers                                        1,008                   14.2
Bonds                                              149                    2.1    Int. aa 7 prior year DO 6 D        6.0        7.2        8.0         9.5
Financial credits                                2,875                   40.5    Amort. as 7 prior year DO & D     17.4       18.4       17.3        16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                 273                    3.8
Total public debt                                7,095                  100.0    IBRD debt outs. & disbursed      347        484        647        872
IBRD as 7. public debt 0 6 D       8.4        8.8       10.0        9.6
IBRD as 1 total debt 0 % D         5.2        5.0        5.1        5.0
IBRD aS 7 public debt service      4.2        4.8        5.0         4.3
IBRD as 7 total debt service       2.5        2.9        2.9        2.7
/1 Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                         May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GRaUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATa¶ENT OF LOANS
(As of July 31, 1975)
Loan                                                      Amount Less
No.    Year              Borrower              Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Twenty         Loans fully disbursed                         462.2
403    1965    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito I                   Power           57.0          0.1
404    1965    Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes              Power          19.8          0.1
1/
474    1966    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito II                   Power          39.0          1.1
565    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Porto Colombia                Power          22.3          1.5
566    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Orerais - Volta Grande        Power          26.6          1.4
656    1970    Banco do Nordeste do Brazil     Industry       25.0            o.6
676    1970    Brazil                          Roads         100.0           0.3
677    1970    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Marimbondo                    Power          80.0          18.2
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio         Power          70.0          23.6
755    1971    Brazil                          Education      8.4            5.6
756    1971    Brazil                          Ports         45.0           38.7
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e      Water
Esgotos da Capital           Supply         22.0           15.5
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de      Pollution
Saneamento (le Sao Paulo      Control       12.0            8.0
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal        Railways      46.o            5.4
1/  In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Loan                                                     Amount Less
No.    Year              Borrower             Purpose   Cancellations    Undisbursed
(US$ Million) 
787    1971    Mineracoes Brasileiras
Reunidas                     Industry      50.0            0.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica
Nacional                     Industry      64.5           17.6
812    1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                       Industry      63.0          18.7
813    1972    Brazil                         Roads         89.0           12.3
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista Industry       64.5          25.7
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
zerais, S.A. - Sao Simao     Power         60.0           32.4
853    1972    Brazil                        Land Settlement 6.7            6.4
854    1972    Brazil                         Roads          51.0          12.8
857    1972    Banco do Brasil, S.A.          Grain Storage 30.0           18.2
868    1972    Brazil                         Livestock      26.0           7.7
887    1973    Light -Servicos de Eletricidade Power        20.0          19.5
923    1973    Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                    Power        125.0          122.9
924    1973    Brazil                       Agro-Industries 54.0           47*3
1008   1974    Cia.Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco -Paulo Afonso IV   Power         81.0          81.0
1009   1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao    Water Supply   36.0          36.0
1067   1974    Brazil                         Education      23.5          23.5
1074   1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal,S.A.  Railways      175.0         175.0
1075   1975    Brazil                         Roads        110.0          110.0
Total                                      2               887.3
of which has been repaid to Bank and                        *3
others                                   270.1
Total now outstanding                      1,894*.4
Amount sold                  35.7
of which has been repaid   1                25.4
Total now held by Bank                     1,869.0         867.3
Total undisbursed
'o IDA credits have been made to Brazil



ANNEX I I
Pago 3 of 9
B, STATEIMIET OF IPC INVESTMENTS (AS OF JULY. 31, 1975)
Year                               Obligor                                          Type of Business                     Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957                 Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                         ElectricaL Equipment                 2.00         -     2.00
1958                 Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                               Pulp and Paper                       1.20         -     1.20
1958                 D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                               Automotive Parts                     0.45         -     0.45
1958                 Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                         Motor Vehicles                       2.45         -     2.45
1959                 Companhia 1ineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                    Cement                               1.20         -     1.20
1959                 Champion Celalose, S.A.                                        Pulp                                 4.00         -     4.00
1966/1968/
1972                 ASos Villeres, S.A.                                            Steel                                8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969             Pepei e Celulose Catarineose, S.A.                            Pulp and Paper                       4.06      3.13     7.19
1967/1972            Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de
Fertilizantes                                                Fertilirers                          8.22      3.03    11.25
1969                 Petroquimica Unilo, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals                       5.50      2.88     8.38
1970                 PIliolmfinas, S.A. Industri. e Co.-erci                        Petrochemicals                       5.50      2.88     8.38
1971                 Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                             Petrochemicals                       4.60      1.44     6.04
1971                 Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                         Pulp                                 4.90         -     4.90
1972/1975j           Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                         Cement                              29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974            Companhia Siderurgica da Gu.nabara - COSIGUA                   Steel                               67.00      6.50    73.50
1973                 Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                       Capital Market Development            5.00        -     5.00
1973                  Ezpresa de Desenvolvimento de Recorsos                        Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                       Refining                          26.00      4.40    30.40
1974                 Industrias Villares, S.A.                                      Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                           6.00        -     6.00
1974                  Fabrics de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                              Textiles                             31.00             31.00
1975                 Capuava Carbonos Industrials Ltd.                              Carbon Black                         6.18      1.08     7.26
1975                 Omiteso Nordeste, S.A.                                         Petrochemicals                      10.00              10.00
Total Gross Co-mitments                                                                           232.40     30.47   262.87
Less Cancellations., Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                           168.00      7.98   175.98
Total Co-intments Now Held by IFC                                                                  64.40     22.49    86.89
Total Undisbursed                                                                                  42.95      2.75    45.70



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
(As of July 31, 1975)
There are now 32 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:   US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The project is completed and the loan
is almost fully disbursed. Equipment costs were substantially
below estimates.  The original Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Closing Date:   June 30, 1975.  The original
project was completed in early 1971 (after a delay of about 18
months).  The project had been amended to include the installa-
tion of equipment for an associated transmission line. In March
1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from the remainder of the
loan. The remaining US$50,000 undisbursed is expected to be
disbursed shortly against retention payments.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:   US$22.3 million loan
of October 23, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Changes
in the project layout and design have increased substantially
the local cost, which will be covered by ELETROBRAS, without,
however, significantly affecting the economic justification
for the project. Construction work is completed. The Closing
Date of the project was postponed from March 31, 1975, the
original date, to December 31, 1975 to allow for disbursement
of retention payments.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:   US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project
was delayed six months by spillway foundation difficulties.
This problem and price escalation greater than estimated
increased powerhouse construction cost by 72%, but, as the
original cost was very low, the resulting cost per kW of
generating capacity is still attractive. The project is
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the acti^n being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
virtually completed and the fourth and last generating unit
is expected to be in commercial operation shortly. The
Closing Date of the project was postponed A second time to
June 30, 1976 tc permit payments to continue on several
purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
656       Industry:  US$25 million loan of February 16, 1970 to Banco
do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB); Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The loan has been fully committed. The Terminal Date for sub-
mission of subprojects, originally June 30, 1972 and postponed
to June 30, 1973, was postponed a second time to June 30, 1974
to give BNB an opportunity to submit subprojects in an advanced
stage of preparation. Accordingly, the Closing Date, originally
June 30, 1974 has been postponed a second time to December 31,
1975. Slow utilization of the loan was due mainly to BNB's
unusually burdensome security conditions on subloans and its
emphasis on larger scale projects, for which financing from
other than World Bank funds has been available.
676       Second Highway Construction Project:  US$100 million loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date: July 31, 1975. Construction is
almost completed and the overall quality of construction is
satisfactory. A small undisbursed balance is expected to be
disbursed shortly. The original Closing Date was July 31,
1974.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. Construction work is proceeding
on schedule. The cost of increased excavation and concrete work
resulting from poor rock foundation and increased equipment cost
will result in an, increase over the original cost estimate of
US$42 million or 15%. This does not significantly affect the
economic justification for the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977. The construction of the Salto
Osorio hydroelectric plant is progressing satisfactorily. A cost
overrun of about US$72 million, due to increased equipment and
construction costs, is foreseen, but this does not significantly
affect the economic justification of the project. The cost overrun
is being financed by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
The construction of the transmission system, delayed to allow a
re-examination of ELETROSUL's market, is proceeding with corres-
ponding modifications.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Progress on the construction and equip-
ment of the project schools is now proceeding satisfactorily.
However, the project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily, although there have been further delays and cost
overruns which will be financed by the Borrower. The Government
has approved legislation which converted DNPVN from a government
agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS. PORTOBRAS, with the
assistance of management consultants, has been improving port
operations in Santos. The National Port Development Study
financed under the project is nearly completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The project suffered initial
delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo not furnishing the required
counterpart funds which are now included in the state budget. The
Government has consolidated all the water and sewerage companies
in the state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption
agreement with the new company was concluded on December 18, 1974.
During the last four months progress has been slow but improvements
are expected with new management of the company which took office
recently. The original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. A review of the original
design resulted in its modification to exclude the discharge of
raw sewage including a treatment facility. Bidding procedures are
in progress for other portions of the project. As a result of the
modifications in the project, the loan amount has been reduced to
US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the water and
sewerage companies in the state into a single company, SABESP, and
a loan assumption agreement with the new company was concluded
December 18, 1974. Progress of the project is expected to improve
with new management which took office recently. The original
Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975. Implementation of the project
is generally satisfactory but behind schedule. Derailments on the
central line and technical problems at the MBR loading and unload-
ing sites curtailed some traffic flows, but with improvements under
way in track rehabilitation, bridge strengthening and siding



AMNEX II
Page 7 of 9
lengthening, traffic has reached the monthly target level by the
end of March 1975. Except for the construction of the Jaceaba
workshop, the project is expected to be completed by the Closing
Date.
787       MBR Iron Ore Project:   US$50 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The project was completed on
schedule, in November 1973, and has been operating satisfactorily
since. The delay in completion of the railway project limited
output to about 80% of capacity in 1974. A 20% overrun in capital
costs resulted primarily from a change in scope of the project.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project:   US$64.5 million loan of February 8,
1972; Closing Date: July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is
US$570 million, an increase of about 32% over the appraisal estimate
due to design evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in
local construction costs. The project is now 65% complete and is
about three months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project:   US$63 million loan of April 11,
1972; Closing Date: June 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is
US$800 million, an increase of about 40% from the appraisal estimate
due primarily to design evolution and increases in local construc-
tion costs. The project is 70% complete and is about six months
behind the original schedule.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of April 11,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Construction works are more
than 80% complete,i, but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated
total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal estimate. The
feasibility studies and detailed engineering financed under the
loan were started later than planned, but are now completed at
a cost substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
are lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year and are now expected to be completed by the original
Closing Date of the loan.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project:   US$64.5 million loan of June 14,
1972; Closing Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is
US$668 million, an increase of about 40% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to :Lncreased local construction costs. This will not
significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 60% complete and proceeding according to schedule
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for the civil
works was awarded to an Italian-Brazilian consortium in May 1973,
and the project is proceeding according to schedule. An anticipated
9% cost overrun is being covered by local borrowing.



A:NNEX lL
Page 8 of 9
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Closing Date: December 1, 1978. COLONE has prepared revised
farm development plans whose credit component, to be financed by
public financial institutions, will be significantly higher than
originally estimated, although still low in comparison to other
settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release of public
funds for farm credit and COLONE working capital requirements and
difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start of
project execution. Settlement, however, has now begun and the
project should be completed in 1978 as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976. Construction
is more than 60% completed but behind schedule. However,
disbursement is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
The estimated total contract cost is slightly above the appraisal
estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. After some initial difficulties
with the appraisal of subprojects, the project is now well underway.
In September 1974, the Bank and the Borrower agreed on a revised
indexing system to ensure that sub-borrowers are charged a positive
real interest rate. However, in April 1975 the Government adopted
a national grain storage financing program involving subsidized
interest rates. This may significantly affect the progress of the
project.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. The project is proceeding
normally. The loan has been fully committed and is expected to be
disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:   US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Principally due to difficulties
encountered in preparing bidding documents and delays in deliveries
of equipment and materials, the project is behind schedule. The
Borrower intends to accelerate procurement significantly this year
and disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1982. Contracts for both the
concrete and earth works have been awarded and procurement of
main equipment is on schedule. Commissioning of the first
generating unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind
original schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works
contracts.



Page 9 on 9
924     Agro-Industries Creidit Project: US$54 rmillion loan of August 1,
1973- Closing Date: December 31, 1970. The loan became effective
on March 11, 1974T. The demand for credit is strong and the parti-
cipating banks are expected to complete commitment of project funds
by the second quart;er of 1976.
1008    Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project: US$81 million loan
of June 17, 1974- Closing Date: December 31, 1970.  This loan
became effective on April 15, 1975. A Bank mission recently
reviewed the progress of the preparation and implementation of
plans for resettlement of the 9,700 families to be displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir. These plans are now at an advanced stage
of preparation, and construction of new towns to house the urban
portion of the population has begun. The rural population is to be
offered the opportunity of resettlement in a promising new agricultural
area in the Corrente River region in the western part of the State of
Bahia. Those who prefer to remain near their present houses will be
resettled in new villages on the edge of the future reservoir.
1009    Minas Gerais Water Supply Project: US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Closing Date: August 15, 1977. The loan was declared
effective on January 9, 1975. The State Water Supply Company
changed its name from Companhia Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMASP)
to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA-MG). The project
is progressing on schedule.
1067    Second Education Project: US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
197Th Closing Date: December 31, 1979. This loan became effective
on April 17, 1975. Project execution has started reasonably well.
11'7Ih  Second Railway Project: US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. This loan became effective on
June 17, 1975. Project execution has started reasonably wiell but
project management and control still need strengthening. Thc
Government is taking appropriate steps to improve the situation.
Cost estimates have increased substantially on several items, which
are now under detailed review. Tendering for Bank-financed items
is on schedule.
1075    Fifth Highway Project: US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.   This loam became effective on
May 15, 1975 and execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
In addition, the following three Bank loans have been signed but are not
yet effective:
Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project: US$23 million loan
CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III: TjS$95 million loan
COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III. Us;P$60 million loan



ATNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
Third (FEPASA) Railways Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:    FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista, S.A.
Guarantor:   Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:      US$75 million equivalent.
Terms:       Payable in 25 years including 5 years of grace at 8-1/2%
interest per annum.
Project
Description: The Project consists of a two-year tranche, 1976 and 1977,
of the Five-Year 1975-1979 Investment Plan. Under the
Project FEPASA would:
(a) provide the very densely populated suburban area of
Sao Paulo with a more adequate, more efficient and
expanded commuter rail service which in the Sao Paulo
area is almost exclusively used by lower income earners
unable to afford private automobiles;
(b) complete construction of about 700 km of new lines and
realignments;
(c) add about 65 locomotives and 1,800 freight cars to the
rolling stock fleet and to modernize about 2,600 freight
cars which still have a useful life;
(d) rehabilitate and partly renew about 700 km of the track,
replace 300 switches and provide the permanent way
department with mechanized maintenance equipment;
(e) improve various stations, yards and workshops;
(f) renew about 300 km of overhead wire and electrify 86 km
of line;
(g) install 211 km of centralized traffic control (CTC)
and replace about 1,800 km of telephone lines; and
(h) make feasibility; final engineering; technical assis-
tance in the fields of project management and control,
train and station operations, permanent way, information
and data processing; and other studies in preparation for
future investments.



A2iiEX HI
Page 2 of 3
Estimated                                            US$ million-
Cost:                                    Local    Foreign     Total      Loan
Suburban Services             93.0      86.9      179.9       3.1
New Lines & Realignments    120.6       57.7      178.3       6.8
Locomotives, Rolling Stock    21L3      85.1      106.4      14.o
Permanent Way (Track
Renewal)                   20.8       39.0       59.8      23.2
Stations and Yards            22.6       7.0       29.6       3.8
Workshops                      6.9       9.7       16.6       5.0
Electrification                4.8       2.0        6.8       0.8
Signalling and Tele-
communications              6.6        6.13      12.9       1.3
Studies, Technical
Assistance                   7.7       6.1       13.8       3.2
Base Cost Estimate           304.3     299.8      604.1      61.2
Physical Contingency (6.3%)   24.7      13.5       38.2        1.4
Price Contingency (18.8%)     66.7      L-4       120.1      12.4
Total Estimated Cost         395.7     366.7      762.4      75.0
Financing:  The projected cash flow and financing plan for 1975-1979,
assuming execution not only of the project, but also the items
in the Investment Plan, is as follows:
1975-1979
Millions of 1975 US$      j
Requirements
FEPASA's operating deficits              91           5
Estimated Investments
(excluding price contingencies)    1,298           67
Debt Service                            561          28
Total                               1,950         100
Sources of Funds
FEPASA's net internally generated
funds                                 106           5
Federal Government                       72           4
State Government                        979          50
Domestic loans                          325          17
Foreign loans, including proposed
Bank loan                             471          24
1,953         100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements: All goods financed under the proposed loan would be
acquired on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Local bidders would be granted a margin of
preference of 15, of the CIF price or the prevailing
tariff, whichever is lower. Retroactive financing
of up to US$300,000 against consultant services is
contemplated.
Technical
Assistance:    FEPASA will engage consultants (745 man months) to
provide technical assistance in the fields of project
management and control, train and station operations,
permanent way, marketing, management information and
data processing, and personnel management.
Rate of
Return:        The estimated economic rate of return is 21%.
Completion
Date:          Project completion expected December 31, 1978.
Report:        Report No. 856-BR, dated September 2, 1975.






T.e*a^~dd J:d ,, ,  s   s   5C   4  ,, >  ,  S *   -   ,  i          ABRAZIL
G  0   1 A   S                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEPASA NETWORK
0 i- < G O I South                                               sqrr FEPASA RAILROADS
,B\~_  fs R A Z I L                                                                                                   New lines Duo e esisting jlindes tb be rehoNbi,ioted
.\ 1 m_______ er, I C C   /JO fjr                                         UbciindioO                                           gouge,non-electrified
Am ' r    J        ....... c                          M   I N    A  S      G   ERAIJS                                    Metric gouge,ecoo-electrified
Re re-i--s-e9 .                                                                                                                 Metric gouge, elecTrified  W-
......................                     I     N   A     G   E' ,                                      -   R  A   I e  Brood gouge, eun-elecrin fied
B1    Drooc g ouge, eecr ifite
Foist"qing o
B___   reood gauge, non et 1,fedito
.e .iv, ,. -, l,,                ,, ,,; 1 ,, .O " UBereood gouge, electrified
'                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Double cruet gouge, olectrif ad
rA./ n/q.I-5eth,$ tO.O, .       _9>/r t  o \ {dCOOqUlStO ' ' I Metric gouge, e lectrified
MDouble  et,igou ge, electrif ed
.zdozz,=zz zUbr.e,e  ri                                                                                                      o M lefi gouet   gouge, lecitfie  d
R  f               Pgoropeve  ',                   RFFSA RAILROADS             20-
Efosing lees.
Nor- delet, ied
M.Np-rq. A  T 0   u P 2 n e n g e   Q 1Broo gouge, rnon-electrified
G   R   O  e oS  0   2  >  rs croeto s° 0   g , Jo e g u re t  0 rFr men o   f,   " _ , ' NI  B ro o d   g o u g e ,   e le c tri fie d
G~~~~~       T     b R~                                   S SKiO oPeS  0  B.,W..QOSor>'         ;     /Ocrs             URi r
.......Sltoe boundo-es
Trfe L.go                                                            O,oodo PAePsmto                           Rivers
.Cem CeteOrnde  Andrea no                    lcsl~\                              dcoo 
LO        8 S obdeouztu °;5q    /      -nO S bo0006 do, Peoiso
I             guAYmcnXc\rv^L<cf" i$ <                                     = MelooO 951eCrJade°s v fe M I N A S  G PEeRA I 7
or ~ ~ ~  X                                                                  PisroegueVees - d _tdg  ,- Pi'oi" 51                                       SneeiooO > 1
Sv P*rrFa mhe~~~~~~~~~Lo6/'                                                         Cre      n a      M°Q MrIH0_ 3Na A  S  HGMuq E5T R Aoolrn Io Sc.
" d-   E     tpitooe im i .C  ro                               A-tub- g. Ao. t 0o.ld..o 
|23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tnse Oir tuu ufzs,                                                        0 
P-id\.M n  P'.. UNT B., rdot       .... .oitt          Tose enenee f>ooFronCod/,
P      A    A L             02Cr                 0 jo9boo                 Siozsug              0.;
Fe fi *""*                wor      ou  s o        tgrms  'MenoMro
oeii,o  S   >, ,oupdzioo  eelesee                                         BoD        gog, /,..-ro  Ozi                                E
KlLoMrilRs        rOPrntr6rac <            Cclutie>/   C     .r :          A ez A.N F/ C: O CE d, N              :~~~~OeseC  zebz BoerMoro
"Zo    rK                      r u               so. d   ,p°neto  . ..n...
roe Clon  Cemeine     yl'    Optoon u n
Frooo o19ohu      Juste
I                                                              Se ciA~~~~~~~~I .,.G
CiLOOttttS      rest sosun  ,ouz...o(iie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aflz . ..  Co~~~~~~~ot  .   ATLANTIC  OCEAN T/C   - ,CE  A
93     5o40        502       io 



