CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1171 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1171 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1975, between FEDERATIVE
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank
has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Guarantor represents and warrants that the giving of such
guarantee is authorized by Decree Law No. 1312 of February 15, 1974; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally


﻿4
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Secion
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes:
(a)   to make or cause to be made available to the Borrower for the Project,
funds amounting to about $70,000,000 equivalent, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, to be disbursed as required for the execution of the
gauge widening between Jurubatuba and Samarita, the construction of the Sao
Paulo rail ring and the line between Paratinga and Piacaguera, and the realignment
between Entroncamento and Amoroso Costa, all included in the Project; and
(b)   whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available
to the Borrower, including those referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section together
with those provided by the State under the Project Funds Agreement, will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor shall enable the Borrower to carry out the
Borrower's program of action on uneconomic lines and services referred to in
Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement.
(b)   In the event that the Guarantor decides to maintain certain lines and
services of the Borrower or tariffs for said services for social or other reasons,
the Guarantor shall, not later than January 1, 1978, or such other later date as
shall be agreed with the Bank, pay to the Borrower through its Normalization
System the difference between the costs of operating said lines and services and
the revenue generated from said lines and services.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, specific security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign


﻿5
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, by January 1, 1977 or such other later
date as shall be agreed with the Bank, take all action necessary on its part to
neutralize the effects on the Borrower's competitive position of the 10% surcharge
(Cota de Previd6ncia Social) levied on certain railway tariffs.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required to enable the Borrower to: (a) obtain, on reasonable terms, the
financing required under Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement; and (b) apply
the proceeds of such financing to payments for goods and services required for
the Project but not financed under the Loan Agreement or out of the funds
provided under the Project Funds Agreement or out of the Borrower's own
resources.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable
action required for the prompt issuance to the Borrower of such import and other


﻿6
permits and licenses as shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation of
goods and services required for the carrying out of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall take all action necessary on its part to
ensure that, not later than December 31, 1977 or such other later date as shall
be agreed with the Bank, the suburban services of RFFSA in the metropolitan
area of Sao Paulo will be operationally integrated with those of the Borrower,
pursuant to the program prepared by them and approved by the Guarantor in
October 1974.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take all action necessary on its part to
ensure that amounts due by it to the Borrower, on account of Normalization and
other payments, will be paid promptly.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist6rio da Fazenda
Ediffcio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Minist6rios
Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:                               Telex:
MINIFAZ                                      NR 31442
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿7
Cable address:                              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                                   440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                            248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s / Agostinho Flores
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


