CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1171 BR
Project Funds Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1171 BR
Project Funds Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1975


﻿PROJECT FUNDS AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated No-ember 12, 1975, between THE STATE OF SAO
PAULO (hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower) which
agreement and the schedules therein referred to is hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter called
the Loan) in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
on condition that the State agree to undertake certain obligations to the Bank
(including the provision of funds to the Borrower) as hereinafter in this Agreement
set forth;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is authorized to
undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained under the laws of the State;
and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms defined in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement shall have the
same meanings as therein set forth.
Section 2. The State covenants and warrants that the Project is of paramount
importance to the transportation development plans of the State and that th-
Project shall have the highest priority in the allocation of the development funds
of the State as provided in the laws of the State.
Section 3. The State agrees that it will: (i) exercise every power, right and
recourse available to it to cause the Borrower to carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and to perform all its covenants, agreements and obligations
in the Loan Agreement contained; and (ii) not take or permit any of its agencies
to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
the Borrower of such covenants, agreements and obligations.


﻿4
Section 4. The State specifically undertakes to make available to the Borrower
for the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, all such funds
as are required for the timely execution of the Project.
Section 5. The State shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure
that amounts due by it to the Borrower, on account of Normalization and other
payments, will be paid promptly.
Section 6. Except as the Bank s'"' otherwise agree, the State shall (i)
complete, not later than September 30, 7 7, the Transport Master Plan, included
in Part J of the Project, pursuant to terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including studies of uneconomic lines and services, such Plan to be initiated
not later than March 31, 1976, (ii) furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31,
1977, for an exchange of views thereon, a program of action for the execution
of said Plan's recommendations with respect to major new transport investments
and policies and measures to help achieve an appropriate allocation of freight traffic
between rail and road transport, and (iii) furnish to the Bank not later than
September 30, 1977, for an exchange of views thereon, a program of action for
the execution of said Plan's recommendations with respect to uneconomic lines
and services.
Section 7. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section
3 of this Agreement, the State undertakes to enable the Borrower to carry out
the Borrower's program of action on uneconomic lines and services referred to
in Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement.
(b)   In the event that the State decides to maintain certain lines and services
of the Borrower or tariffs for said services for social or other reasons, the State
shall, not later than January 1, 1978, or such other later date as shall be agreed
with the Bank, pay to the Borrower through its Normalization System the difference
between the costs of operating said lines and services and the revenue generated
from said lines and services.
Section 8. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the State shall take
all action necessary on its part to ensure that: (i) all future investments in mass
transport in the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo will be coordinated, in particular,
that investments in the areas of influence of the Borrower's railway system will
only be undertaken after the economic justification of the resulting combined
system has been established to the satisfaction of the Bank; (ii) not later than
December 31, 1977, appropriate bus feeder lines to the Borrower's principal
suburban passenger stations will be established; (iii) not later than December 31,
1977, the suburban passenger services of the Borrower will be operationally


﻿5
integrated with those of RFFSA, pursuant to the time-phased program prepared
by the Borrower and RFFSA and approved by the Guarantor in October 1974;
(iv) the suburban services of the Borrower will be coordinated and, not later than
December 31, 1979, operationally integrated with those of METRO; and (v) not
later than December 31, 1979, a unified fare system will be introduced for the
various rail passenger services of S3o Paulo.
Section 9. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the Effective
Date of the Loan Agreement.
Section 10. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall
terminate when the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms
and the Bank shall notify the State thereof.
Section 11. If and when the entire principal amount of the Loan sh-11 have
been paid or caused to be paid by the Borrower (or shall have been cancelled),
together with all interest and other charges which shall have accrued on the Loan,
then, this Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and the State hereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 12. Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice, demand or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or
by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
(a)   For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INTBAFRAD                              440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿6
(b)  For the State:
Governo do Estado de Sao Paulo
a/c Secretaria de Estado dos
Neg6cios dos Transportes
Avenido do Estado 777
Sao Paulo 01107, Brazil
Section 13. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents
required or permitted to be .xecuted, under this Agreement on behalf of the State
may be taken or executed by the Governor of the State or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
By /s / Thomaz Pompeu Borges Magalhaes
Authorized Representatives
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


