Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15166
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
(Cr. 2075-SE)
DECEMBER 7, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 316 (1989)
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 5 10 (1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
AFRICATIPE African Union of Public Works and Employment Executing Agencies
AGETIP        Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'lnteret Public contre le Sous-Emploi
(Public Works and Employment Executing Agency)
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CFD           Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement
(French Development Fund)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EC            European Community
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
MOD           Maitrise d'Ouvrage Delegu6e
(Delegated Contract Management)
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SIF           Social Infrastructure Fund
SME           Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
WFP           World Food Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
iU SA
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation                          December 7, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Senegal-
Public Works and Employment Project (Credit 2075-SE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Senegal Public Works and Employment
Project (AGETIP; Credit 2075-SE, approved in FY90. in the amounLt of lJS$20 million) prepared by the
Africa Regional Office. The PCR includes Part 11. prepared by the Borrower.
The main objectives of the AGETIP project, according to the Staff Appi .isal Report (SAR).
were: (a) to create substanltial new emplovment in urbani areas as rapidly as possible; (b) to improve.
through the execution of works financed by the project. the individUal skills of workers and the
competitiveness of firms engaged; (c) to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive ptublic projects
and test new procedures to bid out small public works projects; arid (d) to produce results that are
economically and socially useful. These objectives were to be achieved under the following conditions:
(a) avoiding the need for increased civil service staff: (b) combining low cost and highi visibility; (c)
supporting but not displacing other developmenit programs: and (d) using transparent yet expeditious
procedures for subproject bidding. appraisal, contractinig anid disbursements.
Project objectives were achieved, withouLt increasinig the size of the civil service, at low cost and
with high visibility of results. Employmenit created was 8,718 person-years in contrast with 7,000
person-years at appraisal. Subprojects ulidertakenii i urban areas, especially in Dakar and its environis.
included constructioni of schools arid clinics. roadworks. canal drainage, and other environmenital
projects. The economic rate of retuLrn for subprojects ranged between 9.9% (for environmenital projects)
to 37.4% (for urban roadworks). The project had a very positive impact on the construction sector; on
local skills; on the environimenlt arid on social services (health and education). The project design was
innovative and the preparatory work relatinig to procedures for subcontracting and procurement were
critical to the project results. As a result of the encouraginig results of the project. a follow-Lip project
(AGETIP 11), approved in FY92-, extended the coverage to new activiti-s arid areas withiln the country.
The second project stressed that only commintiities that uLidertook mainteniance of their completed works
would be considered for future works. Moreover, the AGETIP coiicept has been applied in several other
coLintries (e.g.. Mali, Buirkinia Faso, The Gambia and Madagascar).
The outcome of the project is rated as highly satisfactory. The institutionial developmenit impact
is rated as riiodest, since it is still confined to a simall segmnent of goverinment procedUres. The
surstainability of the pro ject is rated as likely. The PCR is of higil quality.
A major lesson of this project is that proccdires for bidding,contiactinig and disbursinig striall
public works projects can be made simpler and more tlexible thani those for larger projects withi good
results. Moreover, the project's conicept arid approach have good replicability for other countries.
An audit is planined, togethier with AG[ T P 1i
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
(Cr. 2075-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface.                .................................................................
Evaluation  Summary  .............................................................................. iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE ....................................I
A. Project Identity .................................................................I
B. Background ................................................................                                               1
C. Project Objectives ................................................................2
D. Project Design  and  Organization  .......................                                     ..........................................2
E. Project limplementation  ................................................................4
F. Project Results .................................................................5
G. Project Sustainability .................................................................8
H. IDA's  Performance ................................................................9
1. Borrower's  Performance  ................................................................ 10
J. Project Relationship ................................................................                                                               II
K. Consulting Services                                         ..1......................................................... 11
L. Project Documentation  and  Data ................................................................                                                  11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........ 12
A. Lessons Learned ................................................................                                                                    12
B. Bank's Performance ................................................................                                                                 13
C. Government's  Performan ce ................................................................                                                         14
D. Project Relationship ................................................................                                                               14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................................................ 16
A. Related  Bank  Loans and  Credits ................................................................                                                  16
B. Project Timetable  ................................................................  17
C. Credit Data    ................................................................ 17
D. Project Costs and  Finanicing  ................................................................ 1 8
E. Project Implementation ................................................................                                                            19
F. Project Results ................................................................ 19
G. Compliance  with  DCA   Covenants ................................................................                                                 25
H. Use  of IDA   Resources  ............                                 ....................................... .                    ........... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
(Cr. 2075-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Works and Employment
Project (AGETIP) in the Republic of Senegal, for which Credit 2075-SE in the amount of SDR
16.1 million was approved on December 14, 1989. The credit was closed on September 30,
1993, 11 months behind schedule. The balance of SDR 10,853.85 was canceled as of March 8.
1994.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Western
Africa Department of the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II). Due to its length, only a portion of the Borrower's contribution has been
included as Part II. The report in its entirety is included as an annex.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
Project in May 1994 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report. the Development
Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.






Jii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
(Cr. 2075-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.     Objectives. The project aimed to create 13,400 new temporary jobs (at an average cost
of US$2,100 in 1989 dollars or about 7,000 person-years of employmilent) in urban areas as
rapidly as possible, to improve the skills of workers employed through public w4orks financed by
the project, to improve firms' capabilities and ability to offer sustained employment followhig
the project, to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and to test procedures that
would enable the public sector to commission such projects, and to undertake economically and
socially useful public works subprojects. These objectives were to be fulfilled, moreover,
without increasing the civil service, at the lowest possible cost and with high visibility. Efforts
under the project were to support rather than replace other development programs. Procedures
for subproject bidding, appraisal. contracting, disbursements were to be expeditious and open to
scrutiny. Quantitative objectives used to determine and justify project costs were arrived at by
surveying the local construction industry to determine the capacity of small firms and their
training needs. The project further ained to acheive a labor ratio (salaries as a percentage ol'the
total cost of the subproject) of greater than 20%. a turn-around time for payables of less thani ten
days, and a procurement process that required less than three months (Part 1, section C; Part Ill,
section F- I).
2.    Implementation Experience. This project is considered highly satisfactory in that it
exceeded all its major objectives and achieved substantial development results. The project was
particularly innovative in that the executing agency. private and not-for-profit, was managed by a
general assembly drawn mostly from the private sector. Thle agency was also exempted from
public sector salary schedules and procurement and disbursement procedures, which fieed it
from government administrative control and allowed for more efficient manageimient. Finally the
project chose public works tasks that required a large work force, providing at least temporary
employment opportunities and subsistence wages for unskilled workers. This project, therefore.
temporarily alleviated some social distress caused first by structural adjustment (Part 1, para. 8)
and later by the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc. The executing agency, AGETIP
(Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'lnteret Public contre le Sous-Emploi), adhered closely to a
procedures manual drafted by the Borrower throughout the project (Part 1, para. 11). Duriig
implementation, however, the goverinment deposited its counterpart funds more slowly than
planned, which resulted in an I l-month delay in project closing (Part 1, paras. 13. 3 1(c).
Although the project fulfilled the government's objectives of creating immediate, short-term
employment, its activities may have had a displacement effect on the Credit Communal
component of the Municipal and Housing Development Project (Cr. 1884-SE), already under
implementation. In particular, the Credit Communal was to on-lend to support revenue-earninig
local projects such as markets, which were different from the non-incoine producing projects



iv
financed under this project (Part 1, paras.14, 32). However, this should be discounted because in
Cote d' Ivoire, the local Credit Communal (FPCL) was also not entirely successful due to overall
country fiscal situation, the negative resource transfer to the local governments, in spite of the
inexistence of an Agetip-type organization.
3.     Results. The project met its objectives and is judged highly satisfactory. Under the
project 416 subprojects were completed arid a total of 8,713 person-years of employment were
created in urban areas. The average wage earned by workers in the project has been of CFAF
38,724 which represents, for one month of employment, over 33 percent of average per capita
income in Senegal estimated at CFAF 90,500. An on-site training program successfully
improved the skills of project workers and the capacity of firms carrying out works under the
project (Part 1, paras. 20-2 1). The project demonstrated the feasibility of using transparent,
streamlined procurement and management procedures to execute small public works quickly.
The average turnaround time for payables was three days, the procurement process took 1.2
months (as compared with six months the average turn-around for public works procurement).
The project's procurement procedures also allowed local construction firms to bid for and
receive government contracts, which stimulated the local construction industry. Convinced of
AGETIP's efficacy, the government has expressed its desire to "AGETIP-ize" other activities
(Part 1, para. 24). The subprojects undertaken were also economically and socially useful (Part 1,
paras. 17-18), and had a net positive impact on the environment (Part I, para. 22). A study
carried out jointly by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and IDA concluded that
delegating responsibility for providing social services to the communities that use these services
contributes to more efficient infrastructure provision, and has a higher chance of creating service
delivery systems that work. This method, in fact, has brought about a statistically significant
improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of publicly funded infrastructure projects (Part
I, para. 26 and Part 111, section F).
4.     Sustainability. With proper maintenance, works executed under the project should have a
life span of 30 years or more. The question of their beinig properly maintained is problematic,
however. The Second Public Works and Employment Project (Cr. 2369-SE), approved in May
1992, contains a community participation component which is designed to disseminate
information about the importance of maintaining completed public works. Beneficiaries who do
not maintain works already executed on their behalf will not be considered for works in the
future. Contractors and consultants whose technical and managerial capacity was increased
under the project will also have a better chance of maintaining their businesses. AGETIP, the
current executing agency for the Second Public Employment Project, will also be executor for
the Community Nutrition Project (Cr. 2723-SE approved in May 1995). It is also executing
other IDA-financed works under the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 2107-SE), the Second
Human Resources Development Project (Cr. 2473-SE), and the Municipal Housing and
Development Project (Cr. 1884-SE). As a private not-for-profit entity, AGETIP can opt to
continue as an NGO, to be converted into a for-profit organization, or to split into smaller,
competing AGETIPs in the future (Part 1, para. 28).
5.     Findings and lessons learned The Second Public Works and Employment project
closely resembles the first, successful project. It does include, however, such innovations as a
program of pilot activities to test AGETIP procedures in the development and management of
municipal revenue-earning infrastructure and AGETIP-type mechanisms to support rural
investments. From the first project, it also became clear that social sector subprojects should be



v
located on the basis of numerical indicators (such as population, number of current and potential
users of social infrastructures, tax collection efficiency, etc.). The procedures manual indicates
how to use these indicators to rank subprojects by their need. An innovation in procurement was
the introduction of a post-qualification bid which takes into account the remaining capacity in
contract award in the evaluation of contractors' bids. It also provided explanations for bids 15 or
more percent lower than the reference price. These changes are now reflected in AGETIP's
updated procedures manual. Regarding the disbursement of counterpart funding, experience has
shown the government to be slow in disbursing these funds. A covenant requiring the deposit of
counterpart funds before review of subproject batches was therefore included in the
Development Credit Agreement for the Second Public Works Project. It was also decided to
design the training for contractors under the PPF so that under the second project training would
be available as soon as the credit became effective. Building on lessons learned in the first
project, the second project also includes a program to increase communiity participation in public
works maintenance and the consideration of environmental impact in determining the eligibility
of subprojects. Another eligibility criterion was therefore added to AGETIP's procedures
manual to the effect that subprojects that might have a negative impact on the environmelit
would not be considered for execution (Part 1. para. 31 (a)-(f)).
6.     In addition, the project demonstrated the effectiveness of usilig a staged approach--
starting small to test innovative project designs, adjusting project design to respond to
unexpected problems, and only then expanding the project to cover a wider area or population.
The staged approach allows for flexibility in the project design without large-scale disruptions in
public works implementation. The project also showed how important it is to coordinate project
efforts with those already under way so that development projects do not compete with one
another to the detriment of one of them (Part 1, para.32).
7.     The Borrower learned that strong, centralized coordination is needed to avoid
misunderstandings among various actors in the public works sector and within the project. A
detailed annual work program and a procedures manual are therefore both indispensable for
project success. Using these tools, a motivated team can implement a project effectively and
transparently. A reliable computerized management system, furthermore, makes regular
standardized reporting available to all parties and greatly facilitates project supervision. Finally,
delegated contract management is a powerful tool for ensuring the efficient and transparent
execution of small-scale public works (Part 1, para. 36).






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
(Cr. 2075-SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM1 IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Public Works and Employmiienit Project (AGETII')
Credit No.:          2075-SE
Credit Amount:       SDR 16.1 million (US$20 million equivalenit)
RVP Unit            Africa Regioni
Country:             Republic of Senegal
Sector:              Urbani
Subsector:           Public Works
B. Background
8.    When the project was identified in 1988, Senegal had been in the process of adjulstjg is
economy for over six years, with a fourth Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL IV) uLider
preparation. Unemployment was a very serious problem, particularly in Dakar. The situatioll
was being aggravated by a number of factors related to the SALs, such as a reduction in the civil
service and the streamlining of public enterprises. Two other trends were adversely affecting job
seekers: (a) the age structure of the population was such that 100,000 new entranits ilnto the job
market were appearing each year, anid (b) a similar number of migrants. driven out of rural areas
by adverse climatic conditions and inadequate incomes, were arriving in Dakar each year to seek
employment.
9.     Until the investmenit environment improved allowinig new investments to generatc
additional jobs, the unemployment problem, which public opinion considered an adverse elfect
of adjustnent, was threatening the government's ability to sustain the process. In ordel to
alleviate the social stress, the government was eager to complement its adjustmenit programi *with
labor-intensive public works projects which would have an immediate impact on employ-ment
and would also contribute to Dakar's and other cities' efficiency and attractiveness for investors.
The rationale behind such a program was that its results, althougIl perhaps temporary. Would
offset the increasing short-term unemployment problem and ease the transitioni to more
sustainable employment creation. In addition, the project would extend the objectix es of the
municipal component of the Municipal and Housing Development Project (Cr. 1 884-SE), which
became effective in late 1988. It was in this context that the first Public Works and ERmploymlielit
Project was conceived.



C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.    The objectives of the project were: (a) to create, at least temporarily, substantial new
employment in urban areas as rapidly as possible: (b) to improve, through execution of the woks
financed by the project, the individual skills of the workers who would be employed, and the
corporate competitiveness of the firms which carried out works so as to develop their capacity to
respond to increased opportunities for sustained employment after project completion; (c) to
demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that would enable
the public sector to commission such projects; and (d) to undertake sub-projects that were
economically and socially useful. In fulfilling these objectives, the following conditions were to
be fulfilled: (a) avoiding the need to increase the civil service; (b) combininig low cost and high
visibility; (c) supporting, but not replacing, other development programs; and (d) using
transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for sub-project bidding, appraisal,
contracting and disbursements.
11.    To achieve the above objectives, the project had three components: (a) a program of
public facility and infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance in urban areas, to be carried out
under labor-intensive schemes by local contractors: (b) a package of services related to work
organization, management, and labor force training. offered on a voluntary basis to local
contractors awarded contracts under component (a); and (c) a supervision and monitoring
component in order to monitor closely the progress of the project and to prepare the transition
toward locally supported employment of the target group.
12.    The quantitative objectives used to determine the costs and justify the project were
arrived at by surveying the local construction industry to determine the capacity of small firms
and their training needs. Other objectives included the creation of 13,400 new temporary jobs at
an average cost of US$2,100 (1989 dollars) or about 7,000 person-years of temporary
employment; a labor ratio (amount paid in salaries as a percentage of the total cost of the sub-
project) of greater than 20%; a turnaround time for payables of less than ten days; and an entire
procurement process time of less than three months.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
13.    The project's conceptual foundation was clear and was based on "delegated contract
management" (maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee). The purpose behind this was to remove the
government from project execution, while still maintaining its involvement in project planning
and budgeting. The project worked as follows. Potential beneficiaries submitted proposals for
sub-projects to the executing agency, AGETIP (Agence d'Execution de Travaux dI'nteret Public
contre le Sous-Emnploi) which would determine the sub-project's eligibility for execution based
on precise criteria outlined in its procedures manual. If the sub-project was declared eligible,
AGETIP would appraise it, and would enter into an agreement, known as a convention de
maitrise d'ouvrage delguee, with the beneficiary, whereby the beneficiary transferred all
powers, rights and obligations pertaining to the execution of the sub-project to AGETIP for the
duration of its execution. AGETIP carried out all the bidding procedures and awarded contracts
for the engineering and execution of the sub-projects. It supervised the works periodically, paid
the consulting engineers and contractors, and attended the handing-over of the works upon
completion. AGETIP's roles and responsibilities throughout the entire process were finely



3
detailed in its procedures manual to which it adhered closely during project execution. Its
functions were clearly understood by all actors because AGETIP offered seminars to explain its
mandate and procedures to all the bidders it qualified.
14.   The project was well prepared. After the Borrower prepared the procedures manual, the
project's concepts were tested by executing five pilot sub-projects financed under funds made
available by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). At each stage, adjustments were made to
correct problems before proceeding to the next. One lessons learned is that this staged approach
ensured that the project's design was tight prior to full-fledged implementation, and helped
ensure its success (Part I, para. 32). Project preparation went smoothly with only one caveat.
The consultant hired by the government to generate a list of eligible sub-projects for financing
made a wish list reflecting the desires of Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) who were
led to believe that their proposed sub-projects would be financed automatically. When project
execution commenced, they refused to accept the rigorous requirements to which they were
subject in order to obtain financing. This misunderstanding had repercussions on the
relationship between AGETIP and the NGOs over the first three years, and it is only recently that
the situation has improved (also see Part I, para. 38).
15.    This project challenged some basic assumptions regarding the role of government and
public services. Traditionally, the government's role was producing public services; this project
showed that the government could successfully provide the same services by contracting them
out to the private sector. The project was innovative in many respects. First of all, the creation
of an executing agency, with a private legal status similar to that of an NGO, freed the project
from government controls which could have impeded its efficiency. The agency had its own
statutes and by-laws, and was managed by a general assembly whose members were drawn from
the private sector. Secondly, AGETIP was granted exemptions from government salary
schedules, and procurement and disbursement procedures. This enabled AGETIP to employ the
more efficient procurement and disbursement procedures spelled out in its procedures manual,
and to attract top-level professionals to staff the agency, both of which were absolutely crucial to
the project's successful implementation. Finally, highly labor-intensive sub-projects were
executed in order to provide employment opportunities and subsistence to unskilled workers,
temporarily alleviating some of the social tension caused by the structural adjustment program.
16.    The project's timing was appropriate. With the unemployment problem growing ever
worse, a project focusing on creating employment, especially among the most disadvantaged
populations, was crucial to maintaining political and economic stability. The scope and scale of
the project are also deemed appropriate. The public living in urban areas perceived the
unemployment situation as critical, so targeting urban areas for an employment-generating
project was logical. Through regular garbage collection, the clearing of drainage canals,
rehabilitation of health centers and public sanitary centers (blocs sanitaires) and street-paving,
the overall attractiveness of Dakar and other urban centers was nicely enhanced. With the
successful implementation of the first Public Works Project, the Second Public Works and
Employment Project (Cr. 2369-SE), approved in May 1992, has expanded the operation to
include rural interventions.



4
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
17.    The project was declared effective on March 6, 1990 less than three months after Board
presentationi. At first, it was limited in scope to urban areas and their outskirts. A phased
approach was employed whereby iilplemenitation began with the primary cities and expanded to
secondary cities after the first year. The wait was prompted by the desire to be able to assess the
project's success and impact before movinig on. This process allowed AGETIP to determine
what management components were effective and make modifications to ensure that the
remainider of the sub-projects would be properly implemenited.
18.    Project implementationi was greatly aided by close adherence to a procedures manual
w hich contained procedures for: beneficiaries' submission of projects to AGETIP; preselecting
and classifying consulting engineers and contractors: awarding contracts for goods and services,
monlitoring and supervisilg works, disbursements: maniagilig the Agency's fulids; and reporting
the Agency's activities. Contract awarding and sub-project execution wele performed on a
tilmely basis. The entire procuremenit process took 1.2 months. When a sample was taken and
analyzed, the result demonistrated that 90% of the contracts were performed within the specified
time frames. Delavs were frequently due to the need for additional work or to a delay in the
supply of materials relating to exemption certificates.
19.    Part 111, section E shows a number of indicators of how project implementation
proceeded. It shows that the number of enterprises prequalified had risen from 356 at
effectiveness to a total of 1,030. and the number of consultinig engineers prequalified had risen
from 85 at effectiveness to a total of 292. The number of sub-projects completed by November
30. 1993 stood at 416. The iiumiber of man-days of employment created was over 1.9 million.
The labor ratio, representing the total spent in salaries per sub-project divided by the overall total
cost of the sub-project, averaged out at 25.23%. This compares favorably with the SAR's
prediction of greater than 20%.
20.    One critical variance between planied and actual implementation centered on the
payment of counterpart funds. The government deposited its counterpart funds much more
slowly than planned. IDA and AGETIP met with government officials on several occasions in
order to coordinate the deposit of these funds, but project execution was delayed by 11 months
mainly due to this factor. This variance may have been avoided if the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) had included a covenant whereby IDA could retain the right to reftise to
review a new batch of sub-projects if counterpart funding was not up to date. This type of
covenanit was included In the Second Project (Part 1, para. 31 (c)).
2I.    Finally, the Public Works and Employment may have had a negative impact oil the
execution of the Municipal and Housing Development Project (MHDP), which provided credit
through a Municipal Credit Fund for financing municipal income generating projects such as
market rehabilitationi and constrLIction, on commercial terms, with an interest rate of 10.5%.
Under the Public Works and Employment Project, on the other hand, beneficiaries were not
requiested to reimburse the cost of the social infrastructure works executed on their behalf. This
may put the Public Works and Employment Project In iidirect competition with the Municipal
and Housilig Developmelit Project. Naturally, the beneficiaries went to AGETIP which provided
the works free of charge rather than go to the Municipal and Housing Development Project
wlhere they had to borrow althougil for different purposes (social infrastructure verstis economic



j
infrastructure). The result is that the Municipal Credit Fund component of the Municipal and
Housing Development Project has been disbursing much more slowly than foreseen at appraisal.
Therefore, in the future, careful consideration of how proposed projects would effect ongoing
ones is warranted. This is particularly important considering that one of the conditions wlhici
were to be fulfilled in pursuit of the project's objectives was that the Public Works and
Employment Project should support, not replace, other development programs (Part 1, para. 32).
However, there has been a difference of opinion among tasks managers. The two projects were
dealing with different objectives. AGETIP deals with social infrastructure that are noni-inicome
generating while MHDP finances income generating projects. It is argued that the mayors.
instead of going to the Credit Communal for financinig income generatinlg projects, preferied to
go to AGETIP to obtain grants for social infrastructure. Although such correlationi is very hard
to establish, the fact remains that the mixed disbursement record of MHDP calls into question
the relationsihip of granlt financing versus loan financinig in the global urban setting. Projects
under preparation will merge the "urban" and the "public works" approach under the fourtl
urban project in Senegal, and in other Sahelian countries. AGETIP and the Association of
Mayors have been collaborating with the Government in the planniniig of that project. However.
considering the highly positive impact that AGETIP in Mali had onl the Second Urban Project in
that country, it is not possible to generalize and draw negative inferences on imipact of AGETIP
projects on urban projects. In addition, in the case of Cote d' Ivoire, the local Credit Commulial
(FPCL) was also not entirely successful due to overall country fiscal situation, the negative
resource transfer to the local governments, in spite of the inexistence of an Agetip-type
organization.
22.    The project risks identified during appraisal arose from the possible inability of the
government to create stable jobs during project implementation, resulting in an extension of the
project beyond its initial period, a transfer of employment to the public sector, jeopardizing
already implemented public sector reforms; an loss of control of funds. Through the Second
Project, the network of contractors will be utilized, thus suppressing the risk of transferriig
employment to the public sector, at least temporarily. The loss of control of fulids was
minimized through close ex post monitoring throughiout implementation and a carefully thoLIgilt-
out implementation plan.
F. Project Results
23.    The project's results are considered highly satisfactory. As can be seen in Part Ill,
section F-1, the project completed 416 sub-projects, with 74,928 temporary person-months of
new jobs created. A total of 8,713 person-years of employment were created versus the 7,000
estimated at appraisal. The average turnaround time for payables was three days. and the entire
procurement process took only 1.2 months. Some permanent employment was also created. The
average wage earned by workers in the project has been of CFAF 38,724 which represents, for
one month of employment, over 33 percent of average per capita income in Senegal estimated at
CFAF 90,500. A survey of 50 consulting firms and small contractors showed that they were
able to hire 1.3 more workers for a total of approximately 285 permanentjobs. The projects
training program improved the skills of individuals and the capacity of the local construction
contractors who executed sub-project. The feasibility of labor-intensive works was amply
demonstrated as were the procedures enabling the public sector to commission such projects.



6
The sub-projects undertaken were economically and socially useful as seen in the followiig two
paragraphs.
24.   In terms of physical achievements, the project contributed to the renovation of
221,820m2 and to the construction of 101,300m  of simple buildings including schools and
dispensaries, to the rehabilitation of 133km of urban roads and the paving of 523,500m2 of roads,
to the rehabilitation of 65,000m of sidewalks, to the demolition of 15,000m2 of old buildings, to
the cleaning of 37,200 linear meters of drainage canals and the clearing of 122,000m2 of bushes,
to the collection of 7,700m3 of sand, and to the filling of 18,000m3 of embankments.
25.    The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for a sample of subprojects
representing each category of works (sanitation, urban road work, development of green areas,
building construction, sidewalk stabilization and storm drain clearing). The results show ERRs
ranging from a minimum of 9.9% for the development of green areas to a maximum of 37.39%
for urban road works. More details are given in Part 111, section F-3.
26.    The project had a strong impact on the growth of the building and construction
industry. The project disbursed a total of almost CFAF 11 billion or US$43.9 million through
contracts with Senegal's small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). As the bulk of the sub-
projects (376 or 90%) were executed through contracts of less than CFAF 50 million
(US$200,000), a large number of SMEs were able to participate in the project. The simplified
bidding process also allowed them to access government-financed contracts, some for the first
time, thus meeting the objective of breaking down barriers to markets. AGETIP's rapid
turnaround time for payables (average three days) allowed the SMEs to flourish, since they no
longer needed a large amount of capital to be able to pay for supplies and pay their workers
before receiving the transfer of funds themselves. AGETIP promoted and encouraged the
creation of 93 SMEs by guaranteeing half of their sales volume for small businesses and 75% for
micro-enterprises. The proliferation of SMEs over the course of the project is indicated by the
number of contractors prequalified by AGETIP: 356 at project effectiveness versus the 1,030
prequalified at closing.
27.    The project had a positive impact on human resource development. The training
provided to those consulting firms and contractors having been awarded contracts over the
course of project execution contributed to human resource development by increasing their
technical and managerial capacity, thereby ensuring their survival. Courses offered included a
business administration and financial management program for entrepreneurs and their
administrative staff, as well as work organization programs for foremen, and technical training to
improve the basic skills of laborers. Ample evidence demonstrates their increased capacity. At
the beginning of the project, 50% of the SMEs registered with AGETIP were classified as
category "A", the smallest ones; by closing, that percentage had been reduced to 30%, with a
corresponding increase in the percentage of category "B" and "C" enterprises. Another indicator
is that some SMEs were able to hook up with category "D" enterprises (the largest ones) to
participate in joint venture international bidding. AGETIP also may be credited with having
established a network among contractors and consultants.



7
28.    The business community very much appreciated the training courses as indicated by
their attendance. As of May 3 1, 1994', 1,209 participants had benefited from the training
program, including 102 for work organization; 853 for management; 239 for labor improvement;
and 15 for training of trainers. The success of the program is also indicated by the increased
quality of the work being performed on job sites and by shorter project execution periods. The
only shortcoming was that the training was not immediately available upon effectiveness. This
was rectified under the Second Project (Part 1, para. 31 (d)).
29.    A study conducted in 1992 pointed out that the project responded to environmental
concerns in three areas: (i) the clearing of ditches and drainage canals responded to the need for
immediate cleanliness in urban areas; (ii) the construction and rehabilitation of public health and
educational centers responded to the need for a healthier and better educated populace; and (iii)
the improvements made to community infrastructures and tourist attractions improved the
general quality of life of urban dwellers2. The report warned, though, that although the project
produced positive environmental results, these results could be reversed if the works were not
properly maintained by the beneficiaries. As a result of the report's recommendations, AGETIP
invited the local press to cover environmental issues in their reports and organized workshops to
make the public aware of environmental problems. A community participation component was
included in the Second Project for this reason (Part 1, para. 31 (e)).
30.    The project had a healthy impact on the social environment. It gave communities
access to educational and health services by providing improved sanitation, drinking water,
health stations, pharmacies, schools and recreational centers for youth. In addition, through the
"food for work" project, 1. I million food rations were distributed to households in exchange for
community work. The Second Project includes a monitoring component whicih includes a study
to monitor unemployment levels in the areas and sectors covered by the project.
31.    At the national level, AGETIP's success has led to the governmentes wanting to
"AGETIPize" various other activities, as it recognizes the efficiency and effectiveness of the
system. As seen in Part 111, Section F2-1, AGETIP has introduced competition into the process
of providing public goods, leading to lower costs of project execution and, hence, the ability to
carry out more projects with the same budget than when the process in the hands of the
Government which uses force account units to do the works. AGETIP has never been attacked
in Senegal's free press, a remarkable achievement. All parties agree that it is the one
organization that works. Recommendations have been made to the government to streamline
procedures and increase accountability, but until these recommendations are implemented,
various institutions have continued to seek AGETIP to implement part or all of their projects.
32.    At the sub-regional level, the project is being replicated in a growing number of
countries such as Niger, Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, The Gambia and Chad, and has even
spread to southern and eastern Africa (for example Madagascar) and beyond. In addition, the
African Union of Public Works and Employment Executing Agencies, known as AFRICATIPE,
serves as a forum for the agencies' directors to coordinate their work to improve efficiency, and
serves as a tool for sub-regional integration and for promoting South-Soutil dialogue. Most
Figures are available only for the combined training programs of the first and second projects. from a questionnaire
circulated in June 1994.
2 Etude de l'lmpact des Projets AGETIP sur l'Environnement. August/September 1993. p. 87.



8
recently AFRICATIPE met with members of the Latin American Social Infrastructure Funds
(SIFs) to discuss SIF experiences in: (i) delivering multi-sectoral services; (ii) covering rural as
well as urban zones; (iii) becoming a permanent instrument in public investment policy; and (iv)
interfacing with the decentralization process in progress.
33.    Finally, to confirm the project's high impact, a study, undertaken jointly by the Bank's
Policy Research Department and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, analyzed the project
and concluded the following about service delegation: (i) it has contributed to more efficient
infrastructure provision; (ii) it has a higher chance of achieving impact than other alternatives;
(iii) it has brought a statistically significant improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of
infrastructure projects. These improvements are derived from free access of private firms to
service provision opportunities; increased competition among private sector firms; improved
quality of the final product as a result of more efficient supervision; a better assessment of
demand for infrastructure; and an improved match between demand for infrastructure services
and the private sector's suppliers3.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.    Some aspects of this project are sustainable and can be built upon. The works performed
under the project, with proper maintenance, have a life span of over 30 years, although the road
work will require rehabilitation every five years in addition to regular maintenance. AGETIP
has impressed upon the municipalities the importance of setting aside funds for maintenance
work. Their commitment to this goal will determine the sustainability of the works executed.
This issue is being addressed under the community participation sub-component. The national
and local governments have expressed their desire to improve public services and to continue to
utilize delegated contract management. The training received by contractors and consultants and
the skills learned by the laborers on the job will continue to serve them by opening up more
employment opportunities, thereby ensuring their survival.
35.    AGETIP is also executing works for other IDA-financed projects such as the
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 2107-SE) and the Second Human Resources Development
Project (Cr. 2473-SE). AGETIP's future is uncertain since it has private legal status. It is
currently serving as the executing agency for the Second Project, and will be the executing
agency of the proposed community nutrition project slated for Board presentation in June, 1995.
Below are three possible options open to the Agency: (a) it could continue as an NGO as it is
now; (b) it could be converted into a for-profit organization; and/or (c) it could split into smaller
AGETIPs. It is recommended that AGETIP split into smaller competing units, some of which
could become for-profit, while others would remain non-profit to maintain its focus on assisting
the disadvantaged.
36.    There have several attempts to revise laws governing assigning and executing
government contracts without producing any notable changes. The obstacle facing the
government is finding a way to combine their dual needs of streamlining procedures while
3An Econometric Assessment of the Impact of Service Contracting on Infrastructure Provision: The Case of the
AGETIPs of Africa, World Bank Research Project No. 678-64, 1994, pp.3-4.



9
upholding government values in such areas as equitable treatment of co-contractors and ensuring
a stake for the government.
H. IDA'S PERFORMANCE
37.   IDA should be credited for thoroughly preparing the project. Preparation was
particularly important, since the project incorporated several design features which had not been
attempted in the Sahel before. IDA worked closely with AGETIP and government to promote a
strong working relationship with both parties. IDA's supervision missions were carried with due
frequency and with a variety of expertise (Part III, section H-2). Continuity was very strong,
with one of the original appraisal members having seen the project through to the end. As of
February 1995, 83.6 staff weeks had been spent on the project, of which I I weeks were spent in
the field (Part III, section H- I).
Lessons Learned from IDA's Perspective
38.   The following lessons were identified during the course of project execution and have
been taken into account in the design of the Second Project:
(a)    For the appraisal of sub-projects' location, for social projects, numerical
indicators such as population, number of current and potential users of social
infrastructures, tax collection efficiency, etc., were used to rank sub-projects
in order to determine the effective need for the sub-project;
(b)    In procurement, on the evaluation of the contractor's bids, a post-qualification
bid was introduced to take into account the remaining capacity of the
contractors in contract award as well as provide explanations for bids that are
15% lower than the reference price and to have an additional guarantee. These
changes are reflected in AGETIP's updated procedures manual;
(c)    Regarding the disbursement of counterpart funding, as experience has
shown that government has been slow in disbursing its counterpart funding, a
strong covenant linking the review of sub-project batches to the disbursement
of such funding has been included in the DCA of the Second Project;
(d)    The training for contractors component should have been designed to start up
earlier to enable participating contractors to have immediate access to training.
For the Second Project, training for contractors was available when the credit
became effective;
(e)    A program to increase community participation should have been promoted
to help ensure the maintenance, and therefore the sustainability of the works.
This program has been included under the training and studies component of
the Second Project; and
(f)    The environmental impact of sub-projects was not taken into account in the
eligibility criteria for sub-project appraisal and selection. To address this



l0
point, another eligibility criterion was added to AGETIP's updated procedures
manual stating that sub-projects having a negative impact on the environment
are not considered for execution.
39.   In addition two other lessons may be drawn. The first regards the importance of using
a staged approach when testing a project with an innovative design. The staged approach
ensured that the project's design was tight prior to full-fledged implementation. Second, given
the problem of a lack of complementarity between this project and the Municipal and Housing
Development Project, in the future, very careful consideration of how proposed projects
would effect ongoing ones is warranted.
1. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
40.    The Borrower's performance overall was satisfactory. Those involved in the project
maintained a good working relationship with both AGETIP and IDA throughout. The
government granted AGETIP exemptions from taxes and customs for the work, supplies and
services purchased to implement the sub-projects, and followed the procedures manual for the
submission of sub-project proposals. There was no problem with government interference in the
day-to-day affairs of the Agency. One weakness that had a negative impact on the timely
execution of the project was the government's delays in depositing its counterpart funding
payments into AGETIP' accounts.
41.    AGETIP's performance was outstanding. The Agency's director participated in project
preparation and attended negotiations. Over the course of the project, its management remained
dynamic, enthusiastic, committed and highly effective. It provided the strong centralized
coordination necessary to avoid misunderstandings between the government, local NGOs and
local communities. AGETIP unfailingly implemented IDA's recommendations prior to the
subsequent supervision mission. Activity reports and the various audit reports were submitted in
a timely manner. The financial audits always contained "unqualified" opinions by the auditor.
42.    AGETIP has become very popular with the government. The government has learned
that delegated contract management can be successful for carrying out small public works
contracts. AGETIP's efficiency and openness have led to its being delegated the management of
contracts for the construction of schools, health centers, and research centers financed through
other IDA projects such as the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 2107-SE) and the Second
Human Resources Development Project (Cr. 2473-SE). A proposed community nutrition project
will also be executed by AGETIP, using a procedures manual designed for that purpose.
AGETIP is also popular with the public. Many local associations have expressed their desire for
AGETIP to continue and intensify its activities in light of the shortage of infrastructure in many
communities.
43.    Lessons learned from the Borrower's perspective include:
(a)   It is important to have strong, centralized coordination to avoid
misunderstandings among the various actors involved in the project. One way
to involve all parties is to draft a detailed work program for implementation
annually;



II
(b)    The use of a highly detailed procedures manual is indispensable for project
success. That, coupled with a motivated team, makes it possible to implement
a project effectively and transparently;
(c)    A reliable computerized management system makes regular reporting, in a
standardized format, very easy and greatly facilitates project supervision; and
(d)    Delegated contract management is a powerful tool for the efficient and
transparent execution of small scale public works.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
44.   IDA, AGETIP and the government had a good working relationship throughout the
project's execution. The supervision missions and the project in general were well supported by
the government through their active contribution and easy accessibility. All aide-memoires were
cosigned by IDA and AGETIP. Communication was effectively managed over the life of the
project through the various reports produced.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
45.    A large number of consultants were employed over the course of the project.
Consultants were used as local contracting authorities to study the proposed sub-projects and
prepare them for bidding. This original role was expanded during the project to include a
supervision and monitoring component. International and local consultants were also used to
carry out impact studies, mid-term and final evaluations, financial, management and technical
audits, evaluate training needs, train beneficiaries. All consultations were short-term and yielded
quality work with one exception. As mentioned earlier, the consultant hired by the government
to generate a list of eligible sub-projects for financing made a wish list reflecting the desires of
NGOs, instead of producing a list of sub-projects which would be socially useful with an
acceptable economic rate of return.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
46.    The project documents were key to the successful implementation of the project. They
served as the basis for the design and execution of the project. The procedures manual, annexed
to the SAR, was relied on heavily and greatly facilitated AGETIP's success. The covenants in
the DCA were appropriate, but contained one weakness: it did not contain a provision that the
government must deposit counterpart funding into a special account before IDA would disburse.
As stated above, this error was rectified in the DCA for the Second Project. The result was that
the sub-projects to be financed from the government's contribution experienced delays in
execution. On the whole, the documents necessary for the drafting of the Project Completion
Report were readily available. AGETIP's computerized management system proved to be a
reliable source of data as well.



12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     NOTE: The Borrower submitted a Project Completion Report dated January 1994.
Due to the report's length, a portion has been condensed and reproduced below. The report in
its entirety is annexed to this report.
A. Lessons Learned
2.     The beneficiaries were unanimous in acknowledging the efficiency of the Agency's
procedures. The project served as an example and laid the foundation for transferring these
functions to an effective private sector. The project also succeeded in reducing the rigidity of
government contracting procedures and substantially improved urban infrastructure, both in
the environmental and transportation sectors and in the health and education sectors.
3.     All the contractors involved agreed on the efficiency of the project. Because of the
prompt payments, they were no longer constrained by cumbersome government contract
procedures, and the barriers to entering that market, which worked to the detriment of small
enterprises, were broken down. The Agency awarded contracts equitably and transparently to
a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which were able to establish
themselves and gain expertise through practical experience. The Agency allowed them to form
working capital as a result of prompt payments --less than 10 days--and to purchase supplies,
and create temporary and permanent jobs.
4.     The Agency gave small individual firms and groupement d'interet economique (GIEs)
an opportunity to win contracts. The objectives of equity and transparency were attained. The
required labor ratios were observed and frequently exceeded, while at the same time SMEs
were promoted and made more profitable. The businesses appreciated the speedy payment
procedures and the "learning by doing" methods built into AGETIP's procedures. Once the
Agency had achieved its objective of starting up a large number of businesses it developed the
training program it needed in a later phase of the project. Training efforts should be
intensified, since they would help improve the competitiveness and ensure the lasting operation
of these enterprises.
5.     Surveys of the people show that the target groups were reached. AGETIP work sites
were selected to benefit the most disadvantaged sectors, and the work provided a substantial
relief for those people. No matter how laborious the work, the supply was always greater than
the demand. Moreover, some of these workers came from the construction industry and were
trained at a number of different AGETIP job sites, finally ending up as part of the network of
contractors. As for local neighborhood associations, they tend to want to see AGETIP
intensify its activities in view of the shortage of infrastructure in many communities.
6.     From a technical standpoint, the projects already completed have had a real impact on
the quality of life and the environment, since they have focused on rehabilitation, the road
system, and social infrastructure in the health and education sectors. It is clear from a
comparison with the cumbersome government contracting process that the Agency has
performed successfully in terms of rapid disbursements and in terms of prices, which are
always below those charged by the government.
7      The project enables the municipalities:



'3
(a)    to gain experience in selecting sub-projects, to be implemented on the basis of
eligibility criteria, preparing quality engineering designs, and awarding contracts on
the basis on bids, with the result of seeing a maximum number of socially and
economically profitable sub-projects implemented transparently, at a reduced cost, and
with the required quality;
(b)    to have an opportunity to gain experience in contractual management in
performing a public service, thereby making a positive contribution to current and
future urban projects in Senegal,
(c)    to gain credibility in the eyes of the local people, with regard to the
municipalities' ability to perform their public service mission.
It was recommended that in the future, the local people be more involved in selecting priority
sub-projects, so that the work performed would be more relevant to them and the urban
infrastructures would be better maintained.
B. Bank's Performance
8.     The Bank provided considerable support for the Public Works and Employment
Project. Before the project started up, the Bank, together with the Borrower, organized two
conferences in Paris and Dakar to inform the donors active in Senegal and interest them in
cofinancing the program. As for the project Executing Agency, the Bank provided assistance
to it in managing the special account during two seminars held in Senegal. As for contracting
and procurement procedures, the Bank helped the Agency improve its bidding documents and
its criteria for awarding contracts. Between November 1988 and October 1993, the Bank
conducted twelve missions. Ten of these were supervision missions, and of these, three
missions were made by a team of three persons. Two missions visited the Project to study
how to compute rates of return and the net discounted value and to study the bidding
documents for the sub-projects implemented by the various public works executing agencies.
These missions lasted five days on average. Their objectives were to measure the progress of
the project as it was being implemented and funds were being disbursed. The missions helped
improve the Agency's performance and encouraged the borrowers to put up their cofinancing.
These missions always told other lender about the positive achievements of the Agency, ad this
helped the reject obtain further cofinancing. Other Bank missions for ongoing projects or
projects under preparation, visited the Agency to learn about its operations, so that they could
increase their own structures' effectiveness. Through discussions with persons involved in the
various projects, municipalities, and the central government, the supervision missions were
able to set up working teams to make ongoing and future urban projects more effective. These
missions helped the Agency strengthen its management methods and above all to analyze and
asses its contracting methods. They served as an opportunity to remind the Borrower to meet
its commitment to providing counterpart funding and to explain the project results to other
donors.
9.     Lessons to be Drawn. A project properly appraised by the Borrower with the support
of the future management can be successfully implemented. Use of a procedures manual by an
experienced and motivated team made it possible to implement sub-projects transparently and
effectively. A reliable, computerized management system made it possible to report regularly



14
on the project's activities, which in turn, made it possible to measure any risks or impediments
to the project's development. In this connection, good communication between the Borrower
and the Bank, as reflected in the supervision reports, was conducive to this state of affairs. A
well audited project guarantees the security of the funds invested by the Bank to the profit of
the Borrower and the success of its development program. All these factors helped make the
Public Works and Employment Project a success.
C. Government's Performance
10.   The performance of the government of Senegal was generally satisfactory during the
various stages of the project. The changes made in the government and its administrative
structures worked to the advantage of the project. The following points should be made:
(a)   the government observed the provisions of the agreement signed with the
Agency, and which was an integral part of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)   the government followed the instructions in the procedures manual for
submitting and implementing sub-projects taken from the three-year priority investment plan
and financed by its counterpart funds.
(c)   the government paid its share of the financing in full, which enabled the
implementation of 70 sub-projects generating 2,251 jobs, or an equivalent of 147,420 man-
days at total wages of CFAF 298,141,964.
(d)   the Agency was granted tax and customs exemptions for the work, supplies,
and services received to implement the sub-projects and to purchase the supplies and
equipment needed for the Agency's operations.
11.   In this connection, to reduce further the time required to process these exemptions,
since a certain sluggishness was noted in the government, the Agency decided to assign one of
its staff members exclusively to the job of monitoring exemptions on a daily basis (interfacing
with the tax and customs administration and transmitting exemption certificates to contractors).
This measure provided relief from the temporary burden of these duties and taxes on the cash
holdings of contractors and helped them meet their deadlines, since exemptions were granted
more quickly.
12.   Lessons to be Drawn. The central government (Ministries and government offices
and agencies) and municipalities accepted the principle of maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee (MOD)
or delegated contract management and signed agreements to this effect with the Agency. In
this first phase, 137 agreements were signed, 86 of which were signed with the municipalities.
The 48 municipalities involved demonstrated their interest in using private enterprises to
perform public works and provide services, through the good offices of the Agency. This
marks the beginning of contracting management of its activities to the private sector, to ensure
greater transparency and efficiency in providing public services.
D. Project Relationships
13.    Bank supervision missions were always well supported by the Senegalese authorities,
who were available at all times and contributed to the successful completion of the project.



15
this cooperation was evident from the start of the project to the end. Information was
exchanged effectively thanks to the periodic status reports sent out by the Agency, the Bank
supervision reports, and the project audit reports. This ensured good communications
throughout the implementation of the project.
14.    Beneficiaries. The beneficiaries are linked to the Agency by the MOD agreement.
which had the following features:
(a)    Beneficiaries turn over all their powers, rights, and obligations pertaining to
project management to the Agency. The Agency is, therefore, given full power to choose the
prime contractors, select the contractors on the basis of competitive bidding, sign contracts,
supervise the works, check and accept the work, and pay the co-contracting parties;
(b)    The sub-project presented by the beneficiary is financed out of funds made
available to the Agency. This financing is added to the beneficiary's investment budget, but
the beneficiary is not required to pay it.
15.   In these circumstances, beneficiaries were able to conduct important programs to
rehabilitate urban infrastructure, with the following advantages:
(a)    The technical expertise of AGETIP in drawing up and executing public
contracts in the construction sector; and
(b)    financing granted by the project in the form of subsidies, which made up for
the deficit in the municipalities' investment capacity, enabled them to provide services and
carry out urban projects, involving sanitation, green areas, road paving, and building urban
infrastructure among other things.
In addition, under the Agency's program to support training, it organized seminars for these
municipalities. These seminars were used to circulate the procedures manual to the municipal
technical offices, and initiate them into a data processing management system to make their
services more efficient.



16
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit       approval           Purpose of Project             Status           Comments
1. Cr. 336-SE. Sites   1972      To support government              Closed 12/81    Rated satisfactory
and Services Project              withdrawal from direct housing
financing; to diversify housing
supply and concurrently broaden
demand: to build institutions
capable of pursuing and
replicating such projects
2. Cr. 1458/SF-13-      1984      To gain insight into sector issues;   Cr. 1458-SE  Rated satisfactory
SE. Urbain                       to improve the comprehensive      closed 12/88;
Managenment and                   management of Dakar              SF-13-SE
Rehabilitationi TA                                                 closed 12/89
Project
3. Cr. 1884-SE,         1988      To strengthen local governments,   Under          Closing date extended
MuLnicipal and                    to improve policy formulation,   supervision      by one year to
[lousing                         service delivery, urban investment                 3/31/96
Developimienit                   and resource mobilization; to
Project                          expand the economic impact and
efficiency of the housing sector by
(i) removing financial and
institutional constraints to the
National Housing Bank and (ii) by
improving the operation of the
urban land market through the
annual supply of a significant
number of serviced and titled
plots, while promoting
progressive privatization of the
delivery of housing
4. Cr. 2369-SE,         1992      To continue and decentralize     tJnder           Project
Second Public                     AGETIP activities in secondary   supervision      implementation has
Wor ks and                        cities: to develop pilot activities to            been hampered by a
Emploviloenit Project             test the feasibility of AGETIP's                 lack of counterpart
approach in other areas; to                      funding, but otherwise
organize training for                             is proceeding well.
municipalities and the small and
micro enterprises engaged in
project implementation; to make
AGETIP a sustainable agency
covering its operating costs on a
fee basis.



17
B. Project Timetable
Item                          Date Planned                        Date Actual
Identification                                                                     07/88
Preparation                                 06/88 - 02/89                      06/88 - 02/89
Pre-appraisal                                   11/88                              11/88
Appraisal                                       02/89                         02/25-03/10/89
Credit Negotiations                             07/89                          07/18 - 21/89
Board                                                                            12/14/89
Credit Signature                                                                 01 /23/90
Credit Effectiveness                                                             03/06/90
Project Completion                            06/30/92                           08/30/93
Credit Closing                                 10/31/92                          09/30/93
C. Credit Data
1. Credit Disbursements
IDA FY and semester                          Disbursements (US$ million equivalent)
Estimated cumulative      Actual cumulative         Actual % of estimated
1990, 1st semester                   0                       3.47                        0
1990, 2nd semester                  4.4                      4.24                       96
1991 1                              8.5                      8.13                       96
1991 2                             13.0                      12.33                      95
1992 1                             18.0                      15.68                      87
1992 2                             20.0                      20.22                      101
1993 1                   __20.22                                                        101
1993 2                                                       22.09                      110
Note: There was no cost overrun; this report does not include any disbursemenits established throughi balance
adjustment entries.
2. Credit Allocations (SDR million)
Category                      As stated in DCA                     At completioni
1. Sub-projects under Part A of the
project:
a. Work sub-projects                            6.80                               9.94
b. Service sub-projects                         4.50                               1.54
2. Equipment for the executing                  0.22                               0.38
agency
3. Operating costs of the executing              1.40                              2.46
agency
4. Consultants' services under Part             0.82                               0.64
B of the project
5. Refunding of PPF                              1.20                              1.06
6. Unallocated                                   1.16                              0.72
TOTAL                                           16.10                              16.09
Note: SDR 10,853.85 was canceled on March 8. 1994. Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



18
D. Project Costs and Financing (US$ million)
1. Project Costs
Category                  Appraisal*                               Actual
Local      Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign         Total
Component (a)       24.43       3.65         29.92       22.20         5.75          27.36
Labor-intensive
civil works
(b): Services to
contractors         1.27        0.00         1.27         3.01         0.17          3.18
(c): monitoring     0.32        0.25         0.57         0.47           -           0.47
Executing agency    1.19        0.08         1.27         2.66         0.35          3.01
operating costs
PPF and             0.06         1.55        1.61         1.06                       1.06
executing agency
capital budget
Price               0.21        0.29         0.50
contingencies
TOTAL COST          27.48        5.82        33.30       27.24         6.27          33.51
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
* Estimates for the various components were arrived at by surveying the local construction industry to determine
the capacity of small firms and their training needs.
2. Project Financing
l___________ _  Appraisal                       Actual
IDA                                             20.0                               22.1
Government of Senegal                            5.0                               5.0
AfDB                                             8.3                               8.3
TOTAL                                           33.3                               35.4
The results shown in this report are based on financing obtained from IDA, GOS and AfDB. The following
agencies funded sub-projects separately: CIDA. Japan, CFD, WFP, EC.



19
E. Project Implementation
6-Feb-91  31-Mar-91  30-Sep-91  30-Jun-92  30-Sep-92  I1-Dec-92  31-Mar-93  30-Nov-93
No enterprises prequalified      356      396      680      796       Sso      912      1030
No maitresd'oe-vresprequalffied  85       110      160      190       233      267       292
No ofsubprojects completed       20       20        99       169      290      213       221       141
Person/day jobs created        29.815            237.384  414.270  461,200   525,129   547,308  1.93o) 99O
The number of jobs created includes those created by consulting firms and jobs at AGETIP
itself.
F. Project Results
1. Direct Benefits
Indicator                           SAR                              Actual
Average daily wage (CFAF)                       1700                              1280
Average duration of works (days)    __29
Average direct cost/job (US$)              less than 4000                         4236
Turnaround time of payables (days)           less than 10                           3
Procurement process (months)                 less than 3                           1.2
Person-years of temporary                       7000                              8713
employment created
No. of sub-projects executed      __416
No. of contractors having won                                                     231
contracts
Labor ratio                               greater than 20%                       25.23%
The SAR estimated that the project would create a minimum of 7,000 person-years of
temporary employment, at a direct cost of $2,100 per person-year. The SAR calculated this
by taking into account that small and medium-sized firms would execute the contracts, and that
these firms generally do not honor the minimum wage, instead paying CFAF 450 (small firms)
and CFAF 1,300 (medium firms) as the average daily salary. The actual project generated
8,713 person-years of employment (2,178,275 person-days/250 working days (due to the rainy
season the construction industry is active for about 250 days a year) or 74,928 temporary jobs
of 29 days' duration, at a cost of $586 per job created. The actual project's average cost per
person-month of employment equaled $353 ($4,200 per person-year of employment). The
average daily wage paid equaled CFAF 1,280 (total wage CFAF 2,788,577,160/2,178,275
person-days). This average daily wage is higher than the expected daily wage paid by small
firms and is closer to the wage paid by medium firms.



20
2-1. Other Benefits - Comparison between AGETI P's and the Central Government's Prices
The table below gives some information on prices paid by AGETIP compared to prices obtained
by the central government through local shopping. From this analysis, it appears that in the
buildinlg trade, AGETIP's prices are almost always less than those obtained by the government.
These differences can be explained by (i) AGETIP's more flexible procedures. (ii) shorter
turnaround times for payables and easier payment arrangements (Government's turnaround time
for payables often exceeded several months or a year); and (iii) the size of the businesses.
AGETIP works primarily with SMEs which have low social costs and fixed costs, and which
lease equipment and hire employees on temporary contracts on the basis of the work they have to
perform, which is not always the case for government co-contractors. This disparity in prices is
less marked for large enterprises, such as road companies, for instance, which are outfitted to
compute costs and measure risks linked to their commitments.
ITEM            UNIT   AGETIP PRICE    GOVERNMENT PRICE    % DIFFERENCE
BUILDING TRADES
Foundation trenches       m3                850                     1,303         35
Clean concrete            m3              17,000                   26,168         35
Reinforced concrete:      m3             80,000                   113,753         30
foundation
Reinforced concrete-      m3             80,000                   113,753         30
lowcr footings                                                                               l
Reinforced concrete-      m3             80,000                   113,753         30
upper footings
Concrete superstructure   m3              80,000                  113,753         30
Block work: 15            m2              2,500                    4,090          39
Block work: 10            m2              2,000                     3,061         35
Rendering                 m2                800                     1,267         37
Supplies and parts: 70 x   u             30,000                    37,260         19
210 flush doors
Supplies and parts: 80 x  u              30,000                   38,880          23
210 flush doors
White-wash                m2                300                      367          19
Acrylic wall paint        m2                600                      849          31
Ceiling paint             m2               1,000                    1,260         21
Paint for woodwork        m2               1,300                   2,372          45
Supplies and parts: non-  u               4,500                    4,860           7
opening windows



21
Supplies and parts: MI      u               3,500                     6,450          46
non-opening windows
Supplies and parts: built-  u               1.000                     1,555          36
in switches
Supplies and parts: 120     u               8,500                    10.968           22
light strip
Supplies and parts: 60      u               7,500                    10,291          27
light strip
Supplies and parts:         u              35.000                    78,930          56
complete wash basin
Supplies and parts:         u              50,000                    77,436           3|
kitchen sink with 1 tub &
2 faucets
ROAD WORK
Laterite sub-base course   m3               6,000                     4,500          -33
Laterite base course       m3              13,018                    11,604 1        -12
34.880 2
T2 curbs                   ml               4,990                     4,324          -15
STAGD 5 bis curbs          ml               5,860                     6,535           II
Permeation                 m2                 285                       272           -s
Dense, 4cm thick coated    m2               2,460                     3,500          30
stone
Storable coated stone      T               49,500                    52,800           6
(1) True or natural laterite
(2) Laterite reinforced with 3% cement (in weight)
* 1988-93 (CFAF)



22
2-2. Other benefits - AGETIP's Disbursement Profile vs. Africa Urban Profile
100
90
80
70
60arters -rom A   lAGETIP
*~~~~~~~ 50                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~Af ri ca Urban
:j40
30
20
10
0
1 2  3 4  5 6  7  8  9 10 11 1213 14 1516
Quarters from Approval
3. Economic Impact
Sub-project type              Estimated ERR
Sanitation work (example of    16.6% - 21.5%
Manguiline Canal)
Periodic maintenance of      31.75% to 37.39%
urban roads (Fann Bel-Air
corniche)
Road improvements             18.88% - 21.72%
(Guediawaye Blvd.)
Development of green areas    9.9% - 20.85%
(Goree esplanade)
Rehabilitation of buildings  14.72% - 19.40%
(Nabil Choucaire Medical
Center).
Building construction        16.93% - 19.52%
These six sub-projects represent the six different categories of works performed under the
project. For assumptions, see pages 64-67 of the Borrower's contribution.



23
Cost-Benefit Ratios
Some social parameters are difficult to quantify, but the impact of the project on the incomes
of people can be used:
Total Cost      Wages distributed     Labor ratio
Sub-project          (CFAF)               (CFAF)               (%)
Construction of 46         120,395,442           32,458,215        27
classrooms in the
Diourbel region
Improvements to            179,811,959           44,821,973        25
Guediawaye Blvd
Improvements to            188,156,535           46,675,430        25
Fann Bel-Air rocade
Improvements to East         8,546,616            2,300,200        27
Dakar corniche
Rehab. operating            86,300,108           25,644,775        30
room of A. Le
Dantec Hospital
The improved balance of payments as a result of using local materials is another parameter
that would be interesting to consider. Other quantitative factors that are difficult to quantify
include: (a) improvement of living conditions and the environment; (b) social satisfaction of
the beneficiaries; (c) contribution to structural transformation of the economy; and (d)
contribution to social sectors and human resources (education, medical care).
4. Financial Impa=t
N.A.



24
5. Studies
Study               Purpose              Status            Impact of Study
S Study of the       To determine the      Completed in       The average economic rate
economic rate of    economic rate of      January 1992       of return of sub-projects
return of sub-      return of a sample of                    executed under the project
projects            sub-projects                             was over 12%.
Environmental       To determine the      Completed in       Impact of sub-projects on
Impact studv        impact of sub-project   September 1993    the environment was
execution on the                         positive, but could
environment and make                     potentially be negative if
recommendationis for                     works not properly
future projects                          maintained. Information
campaign under-taken to
sensitize urban population
to importance of main-
taining works
TIechnical          (i) To verify that the    Completed in   The report made 12
| verification of sub-   procedures and    January 1992       recommendations which
projects            mechanisms used to                       were subsequently
supervise work sites                     implemented by AGETIP's
were being followed;                     technical director, among
(ii) to verify that these                which were: (a) any
works were of                            change made in the
adequate quality and                     engineering plans during
were economical; (iii)                  the course of project
to make                                  execution should figure in
recommendations on                      the final plan on file; (b)
how to improve the                      road rehab. projects should
system for supervising                   always take into account
work sites.                              drainage problems; (c)
locally produced materials
sholid be tested for
quality; (d) the technical
director should attend all
work hand-overs.



25
G. Compliance with DCA Covenants
Section of DCA         Description of Covenant           Deadline                     Status
3.01 (a)                   Commitment to objectives                              met
3.01 (b)(i)                Compliance with terms of                              met
the Convention and
provisions for transfer of
Credit proceeds
3.01 (b)(ii)               Due diligence                                         met
3.01 (b)(iii)              Procedures manual                                     met
satisfactory to IDA
3.01 (b)(iv)               Agency directors positions                            met
filled with staff
satisfactory to IDA
3.01 (b)(v)                Agency and Borrower to                                met
inform IDA of problems
3.01 (b)(vi)               Provision of monthly       before the 15th of each    met
activity reports           month
3.01 (b)(vii)              Sample sub-project                                    met
contract always
satisfactory to IDA
3.01 (b)(viii)             Sample beneficiary                                    met
contract always
satisfactory to IDA
3.01 (b)(ix)               Submission to IDA of new   October 15, 1990           met
batch of sub-projects
estimated at US$7.5 M
3.01 (c)                   Borrower not to amend,                                met
waive, abrogate the
Convention without IDA
agreement
3.01 (d)(i)                Executing agency to        6/30/91 - completion of    execution of sub-projects
execute new sub-project    Ist batch of sub-projects    somewhat delayed due to
aggregating the equivalent                            delays in receiving
of US$5 million before     6/30/92 - completion of    counterpart fundinig
6/30/92, of which $2.5     2nd batch of sub-projects
million to be completed by
6/30/91
3.01 (d)(ii)               Counterpart funding                                   met but with delays which
caused a delay in project
closing by 11 mIaothis
3.02                       Procurement to be carried                             met
out in accordance with
DCA
3.03                       Mid-term review            1/31/91                    Mid-term took place in
February/March 1991
4.01 (a)                   Maintain records and                                  met
accounts
4.01 (b)                   Have records and accounts  semi-annually              slight delays in receipt ot
audited, and provide IDA                              audits, but audits always
with audit reports                                    had unqualified opiliioIl
4.01 (c)                   For expenditures made on   semi-annually              slight delays in receipt of
basis of SOEs, maintain                               audits, but audits always
accounts and provide IDA                              had unqualified opillion
with semiannual audit
reports                  I



26
H. Use of IDA Resources
1. Staff Inputs (in staff weeks)
FY     Preparation    Appraisal   Negotiations    SPN    PCR    Total
89           18.6         13.0                                       31.6
90                                         12.1      6.3             18.4
91                                                   8.7              8.7
92                                                   9.7        I    9.7
93                                                   8.5    0.5         9
94                                                   0.2     4.2      4.4
95                                                           1.8      1.8
Total             18.6         13.0             12.1    33.4    6.5       83.6
2. Mission Data
Stage of                                                     Specialization    Performance      Dates of
Project Cycle   Month/Year    No. persons    Days in field    represented         Ratings          reports
Identification    06/88               3              7          E, EA, FA       n.a.            07/20/88
Preparation     11/88                 3               8         E, FA          n.a.             12/08/88
Appraisal      02/89                  5              14         C, E, EA,       n.a.            03/14/89
FA, L
Supervision 1   01/90                 2              11         E, FA           1. 1, 1, 1, 1    03/15/90
Supervision 2   07/90                2                8         E, EA           1, 2, 1, 2, 1    08/29/90
Supervision 3   11/90                 2               8        E, EA            1, 1. 2, 1, 1    02/06/91
Supervision 4   04/91                 3               4        E, EA, FA        1, 2, 2, 1, 1    06/06/91
Supervision 5   10/91                4                9        E, EA. L, S      1, 2, 2, 1 ,1   11/20/91
Supervision 6   07/92                 2               5        E, EA            1. 2. 2, 1. 2    09/09/92
Supervisioni 7   10/92                3               5         DC, E, FA       1, , 1. 1 ,1    11/24/92
Supervision 8   02/93                 2              10         E, EA           1, 1, 1, 1, 1    03/11/93
Supervision 9   04/93                 2               5         E. EA           1, I, 1, 1, 1    07/02/93
Supervision     10/93                 4               5        E, EA,L. S       1. 1 1. 1, 1    11!30/93
I 0/PCR       I                               I               I                               I_I
Specializations represented
C       Consultaiit
DC      Division Cliiet
E.      Econiomist
EA      Enitineer Advisor
FA   -- Fittaticial Anialyst
L --t Lawvcr
S     :o=ioioClolo5
fPci ror tndic Ratiegs (in respective orderi
Pito ,ci Developn1icn t)hOjectives
iinpunictneation Progress
Coniplialice with Legal Covenants
Ptoiect Mianaoemient Pertorimiatice
A a ilahilitv (it Funds






.4 
r       i                                       --I. -      i E-



