Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6:42                                 Zo &w 5 -
Report No. 8032-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 3, 1989
Infrastructure Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
Tis docment has a restidcted disribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offichi duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



C=XEQELYAL S
Currency Unit       =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00            =      CFAF 316
CFAF I million      =      US$ 3,166
SYSTEM OF WEIGHT AND ME-ASURES : METIC
EISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHS          Banque de 1'Habitat du Senegal (National Housing Bank)
CUD          Communaut6 Urbaine de Dakar
(Greater Dakar Intermunicipal Organization)
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPC          Ministry of Plan and Cooa,eration
SDA          Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SMIG         Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti
(Minimum Wage Rate)
UMOA         Union Mondtaire Ouest Africaine (Regional Central Bank)
This report was based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Frangois Pechon
(financial analyst), Max Pulgar-Vidal (economist), Leslie Pdan (economist), Friedrich Peloschek (legal
counsel) and Hugues Castaing (engineer consultant) who visited Senegal in February/March 1989 to
appraise the Project



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary                                                            iii to v
1.  TITHE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
A.    Unemployment, Structural Adjustment and Social Unrest ...             I
B    Government's Policy and Undertakings .2
C.    The Construction L-idustry's Performance and Constraints              3
D. The Bank's Previous Role.                                                4
I.    THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives . ...........................                      5
B.   Project Descripton ............................   6
C.    Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ...............                  10
D.    Status of Project Preparation .......         ..............          10
E.     Project Cost and Financing Plan ......         .............         11
F.     Project Implementation  ..........          ..............           12
G .    Procurement ...............................                           13
H.    Disbursement ..............................                           15
I .    Accounting, Auditing and Reportigg ..................                16
J.     Economic Analysis ...........................                        16
K.    Benefits and Risks ...........................                        17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of i' * i Aal duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I u -
III.   AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMEAON ......AT            N.    17
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 2.1 - Estihnated Costs ...........................      11
Table 2.2 - Financing Plan ...........................    12
Table 2.3 - Procurement .............................    15
SUPPORTING ANNEXES. TABLES CHARTS and MAPS
1.    The Executing Agency's Statutes and By-laws
2.    The Executing Agency's Procedures Manual
3.    Cost Tables
4.    Project Execution Schedule
5.    Schedule of Disbursements and Allocation of IDA Credits
6.    Economic Analysis
AF5IN
November 3, 1989



- i -
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYNENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumrrna
Borw-er.          Senegal
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
Credit Amounx     SDR 16.1 million (US$ 20.0 million)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms
Cofinanciny:      AfDB (US$ 8.3 million) and GOS (US$ 5.0 million)
PRect
Objectives and
DescripLogn:      The main objectives of the project are: (a) to create, at least temporarily,
substantial new employment in urban areas as rapidly as possible; (b) to
improve, through execution of the works financed by the project, the
individual skills of the workers who will be employed, the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will cany out works so as to develop their
capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained employment
after completion of the project; (c) to demonstrate the feasibility of
labor-intensive public projects and test the procedures that will enable the
public sector to commission such projects; and (d) to produce results that
are economically and socially useful. In achieving these objectives, the
following conditions should be .'ulfilled: (a) avoiding the need for increased
civil service staff; (b) combining low cost and high visibility; (c) supporting
but not replacing other development programs; and (d) using "transparent"
but expeditious and flexible procedures for subproject bidding, appraisal,
contracting and disbursements.
The components of the proposed project are: (a) a program of public facility
and infrastructure rehabilitation and mainterance in urban areas to be carried
out using labor-intensive methods by loc-l contractors; (b) a package of
services related to work organization, management, and labor force training
to be offered on a voluntary basis to ' Sal contractors who will be awarded
contracts under component (a); an(C (c) a supervision and monitoring
component in order to monitor closely the progress of the project and to
prepare the transition toward localy supported employment of the target
group. The implementing arrangements are critical for effective fulfilLment
of the project's objectives: an executing agency has been created as a
temporary "self-destructing" body, with private legal status, with a manager
recruited from the private sector. Suzh an agency will be able to avoid the
cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that public institutions are
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- iv -
obliged to follow in calling for bids, awarding contracts and disbursing, and
which result in de facto discrimination against small contractors.
Justification
and Risks:        Those who suffer mostly from unemployment or underemployment
attributed to structural adjustment policy are the urban poor. Although the
economic rate of return of a labor-intensive public work program is difficult
to estimate, benefit-cost ratios have been estimated at 2.8 and 3.0 for
garbage collection and pavement rehabilitation. The proposed project is
further justified by its impact on poverty alleviation and by indirectly
securing other development and adjustment undertakings. The design of the
project is mainly justified by the fact that the targeted industry (construction,
maintenance and vrban services)--more than any other industry--hires and
dismisses labor according to contract opportunities. This maximizes the
probability that an increase in the industry's activity will actually result in an
increase in employment. Conversely, the project is not expected to directly
create permanent jobs. Main risks arise from possible inability of Senegal's
economy to develop enough stable job opportunities during the period of
program execution, leading to pressure from the Government to extend the
program beyond its initial period. Another risk is to jeopardize previous
efforts of public sector management improvement, including restrictior.s on
personnel hiring, implemented during the recent years by the central and
local governments; continuation of employment for those who would
benefit from the program should not take the form of their being hired by
local governments when the program ends. .'.ast, the control of proper use
of funds is more difficult wit- such a program than with regular investment
projects. The implementing arrangements established during project
preparation and appraisal and contained in a Procedures Manual wh .h is
attached to the Convention entered into by the Government and the Agency
have been carefully designed to address this risk.
Estimamed Project Costs
Local    Foreign     Total
-------------- (US$ million) -----------
Component (a): Labor-intensive Civil Works        24.43      3.65      28.08
Component (b): Services to Contractors             1.27      0.00        1.27
Component (c): Mon.itoring                         0.32      0.25       0.57
Executing Agency Operating Costs                   1.19      0.08       1.27
PPF and Executing Agency Capital Budget            0.06       1.55       1.61
Base Costs                                        2 7.27     5.53      32.80
Price Contingencies                                0.21      029        0.50
Total Project Costs (1)                           27.48      5.82      33.30
(I) Numbers may not add due to rounding.



Financing Plan                                                           %Of
Total
Lecal     Foreign        CIwa       Proj.
----(US$ mnillion)-------------  Cost
Government                         5.0         0.0         5.0       15%
IDA                               15.4         4.6        20.0       60%
AfDB                              7.1          1.2         8.3       25%
Total Project Costs               27.5         5.8        33.3      100%
Estimated Disbursements:
FY90        FY91        FY9,
Total                              4.4         8.6         7.0
Cumulative                        4.4         13.0        20.0
F'rimated Project Completion Date: June 30, 1992
Memorandum of the .!resident: No. P-5130-SE
Map: IBRD No. 21021



SElQgAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPIOYMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. TlE ECONOMC AND SOCIAL CQO IX
A. Inemployment. Structural Ajustment and Social Unrest
1.1     Unemployment is a very serious problem in Senegal, particularly in the greater Dakar
area. In 1982, it was estimated that formal unemployment was running at a level of 19.4 percent.
Since then, a number of factors have severely aggravated the situation, some of them directly
related to the adjustment process. Although hard data are not available, some orders of magnitude
can be estimated from an August 1989 USAID study of the informal sector in Dakar.
1.2     Senegal has been in the process of adjusting its economy for more than six years. A
fourth structural adjustment loan (SAL IV) is currently under preparation. One effect of the
adjustment program implemented to date has been a significant trade liberalization, resulting in a
reduction of the effective levels of protection for Senegalese industries. Provisions in the second
and third SALs have opened up the Senegalese economy to serious foreign competition, creating
the need for companies to improve their productivity to survive, which has necessitated layoffs of
excess workers and plant closings. About 25 enterprises have been closed since 1986; 4,500
workers have been laid-off. The slow supply response of the private sector has meant that these
job losses have not been compensated for by new employment opportunities in other industries or
sectors.
1.3     In addition, the stabilization policies undertaken by the Senegalese govemment since
1980 have led to a reduction of the role of public sector in the economy. The number of jobs
created in the public sector diminished significantly from an average of 5,334 per year in the 1976-
1980 period to 1,650 in the 1980-1986 period. This trend is expected to continue and, indeed, wili
become worse, as programs to downsize the civil service and to streamline public enterprises are
put into effect.
1.4     These factors, which tend to reduce employment opportunities, are cornpounded by two
trends that tend to increase the number of job seekers. First, the age structure of the population is
such that each year there are approximately 100,000 new entrants into tile labor force. Second, a
similar number of migrants, driven out of the rural areas by adverse climatic conditions and
inadequate income opportunities, come to Dakar every year searching for employment.
1.5     This leaves only the informal sector as a source of employment and this sector has
undoubtedly created a substantial number of jobs. It has not, however, been able to overcome the
effects of the factors set out above. As an indicator of the magnitude of the crisis, the results of a
USAID study may be cited: for every 100 workers leaving the work force through death or
retirement, 262 appear immediately to take their place. As a result, although the dimensions of the
problem cannot be quantified with precision, there can be no doubt that unemployment has
substantially increased and that the already fragile social situation is being subjected to additional
strain.
1.6     Until the investment environment is improved, allowing new investments to generate
additional jobs, the unemployment problem, which public opinion considers as an adverse effect of
adjustment, will pose a growing threat to the Government's ability to sustain the adjustment



Senegal Public Works                 -2 -
process. The increasing discontent among the population has created social unrest which, while it
finds its leadership among unemployed high school and university graduates, is fueled by the large
number of unemployed urban iesidents and by the growing number of immigrants from rural areas
seeking a better living in the capital city.
1.7     In order to alleviate the social stress in urban areas, especially in Dakar, the Government
is eager to complement its structural adjustment program with labor intensive public works projects
which would have an immediate impact on employment and would also contribute to Dakar's and
other cities' efficiency and attractveness for investors. The rationale behind such a program is *hat
its results, albeit temporary, will offset increasing short-term unemployment and ease the transition
to more sustainable employment creation resulting from the positive effects expected from
adjustment in the medium term.
B. Goven'ment's Policy and Undertakings
1.8     The Government of Senegal has made several attempts to deal with the growing
unemployment problem. In November 1987, the Government created the "Detegavion a
l'Insertion, d la Reinsertion et d l'Emploi" (DIRE), a special administrative body in charge of
managing progrL5ls aimed at improving the e.nployment situation. DIRE's mandate is to produce
and implement a comprehensive employment policy. This includes the identification and removal
of rigidities that impede equilibrium in the labor market. DIRE's main role has been the
management and development of the activities of the National Employment Fund to finance small-
scale enterprises. To date, 82 projects have been approved for a total of CFAF 1,200 million.
Fifty-four percent of these projects are located in the Dakar-Thies area, and the other 46% are
located in Louga (6), Tambacounda (7), Ziguinchor (7), St. Louis (4), Diourbel (4), Koblack (5),
and Kolda (4). These projects have led to the creation of 70C jobs. These jobs huave been filled by
unemployed graduate students (25), laid-off public servants (53) and the rest by rmturning migrants
and other targeted groups. The projects covered a wide range of economic activities, including:
agriculture (14 projects), poultry and fattening (20 projects), bakery (7 projects), and trade (14
projects). DIRE is also active in the organization of an interministerial working group to promote
the development of the craft sector. Thirty-three project documents with the potential for creating
250 jobs for the youth have been studied. Five projects have been implemented, including: one
ceramic workshop in Dakar, three sewing workshops in Tambacounda and Kolda, and one
carpentry workshop in Kaffrine. These five projects currently employ 52 persons. While
interesting, these projects are too expensive and have created too few jobs.
1.9     The Government has been looking for a broader program and, in this respect,
commissioned a US consultant firm (IM&D) to prepare a "special program for employment"
consisting of various labor-intensive public projects likely to be financed by external donors. This
study was completed in March 1989. Fifty projects were identified and selected to be presented at
a donors' conference which was organized in May 1989, in Paris, to gather funding pledges.
Twenty-eight million dollars have been pledged ty the participating delegations in recognition of
the urgency of creating a program of short-term employment opportunities. The proposed Public
Works and Employment Project is considered by the Government as a vanguard component of this
program. The proposed project is geared toward the needs of specific strata of the urban work
force (the building and construction industry) affected by the short-term impact of the adjustment
program.



Se. :egal Public Works                -3-
C. The Construction Industry's Performance and Constraints
1.10    In order to understand the characteristics of the construction industrv, a survey of the
target enterprises was undertaken to uncover the actual constraints cuirentfi. iaced by them in
connection with the labor regulatory framework, credit availability, and public sector C iwiir1vt ing
and contract administration. In particular, the survey aimed at obtaining a description of the
enterprises themselves, including:
(a) overall :iancial position (fixed capital, working capital, short- and long-term debt, taxes
owed, amounts owed by government);
(b) managerial aspects (qualifications of management and workers, proportion of cost
overruns and implementation delays in recent contracts, overall orientations of the
enterprise in connection with public works); and
(c) employment by category (indefinite contract, fixed-tern contract, daily laborers) and any
hiring/firing practices worth noting.
The results indicate that the target enterprises face a number of constraints in the areas of
access to financing and training, as well as with respect to bidding procedures and payment delays.
The project has been designed to address these issues.
1.11    The domestic construction industry encompasses about 300 firms, more than ninety
percent of which are small or very small scale enterprises (less than 25 permanent workers). The
industry's total permanent manpower is estimated at 6,000 workers. In addition, the industry
employs an estimated 20,000 temporary workers. The industry's annual turnover is an estimated
CFAF 70 billion (US$ 225 million) of which CFAF 50 billion (US$ 161 million) is commissioned
by public agencies (GOS, local governments and parastatals). Thus, each additional
US$ 10 million of public investment in the form of public works commnissioned to local contractors
represents a 4.4 % increase in the industry's activity.
1.12    Ever for works which do not require high qualifications and could be efficiently carried
out under labor-Lntensive techniques by local small firms, most of t'v se firms cannot be awarded
or even bid for contracts under Governmer.t projects, for two main  .ons:
(a) their low level of sophistication with respect to administratnve and financial management
does not enable them to submit acceptable proposals and to give evidence of their
fulfilling the demanding administrative requirements in accordance with the cumbersome
procurement procedures in force for public contracts; and
(b) current delays experienced by contractors for being paid through the Government's
admi'nistrative procedures are measured in months in the best cases, and too often in
ycars, only large firms with a substantial working capital can afford to await payment
for such a long time. Moreover initial advancer, which are theoretically intended to
enable contractors to purchase supplies needed to start the works, are delivered in the
form of Treasury checks, which cannot be cashed in commercial banks and are thus
worthless except for paying taxes.



Senegal Public Works                 - 4 -
D. The Bank's Pre_ious Role
1.13    Senegal is one of the target countries of the regional program called Social Dimensions
of Adjustment (SDA), the objectives of which are to measure the effects of adjustment on
households' standards of living, especially among the poorest segment of the population and to
propose specifically tailored programs to alleviate strain on those most vulnerable to the effects of
adjustment policies.
1.14    Und,r SAL III, a national reinsertion fund (Fonds National de Reinsertion or FNR),
was created to ease the transition of laid-off workers in the parapublic and industrial sectors and to
stimulate voluntary resignation from the civil service. Unemployed graduate students
("maftrisards') and Senegalese returning from Europe are also eligible for aid from this fund. The
fund has been allocated US$ 10 million (US$ 5.0 million from IDA and US$ 5.0 million from
AfDB) and is managed by DIRE (para 1.8). The national reinsertion fund which was created to
provide help to those affected by civil service reductions and public enterprise restructuring has
been practically extended through the creation of the National Employment Fund, to cover other
categories such as emigrants who have resettled in Senegal and unemployed new graduates from
colleges and universities. The proposed project offers services complementary to those provided
by these funds and, since it focuses specifically on the building and construction trades, is not in
competition with them.
1.15    In the urban sector, the Bank has been active for 15 years. The first urban project (Sites
and Services Project, Cr. 336 SE) focused on housing and its target was to achieve, through
delivery of 14,000 serviced plots in Dakar and 1,200 in Thies, the following objectives:
(a) support Government's withdrawal from direct housing financing and increase owner
occupancy.
(b) diversify housing supply and concurrently broaden demand; and
(c) demonstrate the effectiveness and replicability of sites and services projects and build
institutions capable of pursuing and replicating such projects. This project was
successfully completed with a recalculated economic rate of return of 19%.
1.16    The second urban project (Urban Management and Rehabilitation Technical Assistance
Project, Cr. 1458/SF-13 SE) wa. undertaken as a pilot endeavor dealing with issues related to the
main urban area of Senegal, the Dakar region, and aiming both at gaining insight into overall urban
sector issues and at improving comprehensive management of Dakar (housing, transportation,
services, etc.). Studies carried out within this project provided the framework required to draw up
a more comprehensive strategy for the urban sector, as well as to help address the most urgent
issues of Senegal's capital city. This project is now close to completion.
1.17    Designed on the basis of the findings of studies carried out under the second project,
a Municipal and Housing Development Project (Cr. 1884-SE) became effective on November 3,
1988. This new project has two major objectives:
(a) strengtheiing local governments (particularly in metropolitan Dakar) to improve policy
formulation, service delivery, urban investment, and resource mobilization; and



Senegal Pubiic Works                  - 5 -
(b) expanding the economic impact and efficiency of the housing sector by:
(i) removing financial and institutional constraints on the National Housing Bank
(Banque de VHabitat du Sen6gal: BHS); and
'ii) improving the operation of the urban land market threugh annual supply of a
significant number of serviced and titled plots.
In the medium term, this project should significantly increase the private demand for
housing construction, and therefore stimulate the activity of the construction industry. Moreover,
the local government strengthening component encompasses a number of public facilities and
infrastructure rehabilitation sub-projects, the execution of which is likely to stimulate construction
activity in the short term The proposed project would complement and extend the objectives of the
Municipal and Housing Development Project by increasing the range of subprojects that can be
undertaken, by streamlining bidding, contracting and payntent procedures and by setting up an
executing agency that will demonstrate to public entities more efficient and cost-effective ways of
providing urban infrastructure and services.
II. TH  PRO=ECT
A. P      bjectiye
2.1     The main objectives of the project are:
(a) to create, at least temiporarily, substantial new employment in urban areas as rapidly as
possible;
(b) to improve, through execution of the works financed by the project, the individual skills
of the workers who will be employed, and the corporate competitiveness of the firms
that will carry out works so as to develop their capacity to respond to increased
opportnities for sustained employment after completion of the project;
(c) to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that will
enable the public sector to commission such projects; and
(d) to undertake subprojects that are economically and socially useful.
In pursuing these objectives, the following conditions should be fulfilledi
(a) avoiding the need to increase the civil service;
(b) combining low cost and high visibility;
(c) supporting, but not replacing, other development programs; and
(d) using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for subproject bidding,
appraisal, contracting and disbursements.



Senegal Public Works                  -6 -
B. Project Descrption
2.2     The components of the proposed project are:
(a) a program of public facility and infrastructure rehabilitation and wmaintenance in urban
areas, to be carried out under labor-intensive schemes by local contractors;
(b) a package of services related to work organization, management, and labor force
training, to be offered on a voluntary basis to local contractors who will be awarded
contacts under component (a); and
(c) a supervision and monitoring component in order to monitor closely the progress of the
project and to prepare the transition toward locally supported employment of the target
group.
The Exe-uting Agency created to execute the project will serve as a model for other
public agencies in terms of achieving low costs and efficient work methods. It will have a staff of
14 employees including an executive director assisted by one financial director and one technical
director. The activities of the Executing Agency will be guided by a Procedures Manual outlining
the policies and procedures to be followed in the conduct of its activities. (See Annex 2)
Implementation of a Program of Labor-intensive Civil Works Subprojects
2.3     The subprojects to be executed under component (a) will be submitted by central and
local branches of the central Government as well as by local governments. The Executing Agency
(see p;ra 2.18 et. seq.) will appraise the proposed subprojects after checking their eligibility in
regard to precise criteria which are listed in para II-4-3 of the attached draft Procedures Manual
(Annex 2). In the subproject selection process (Procedures Manual, paras 11-3 and II-4), the
following will be critical:
(a) the subproject shoulu have a proven economic or social utility and be ready for
execution without requiring substantial detailed engineering;
(b) the subproject itinplementation should not require the use of sophisticated equipment,
and should be achievable through labor-intensive methods (i.e., with labor, as a
percentage of the total cost, amounting to more than 20%);
(c) if competing with other subprojects for funds available during a given period, an eligible
subproject should have, ceteris paribus, a higher rate of return (and/or a demonstrated
higher intangible benefit generation) than its competitors; and
(d) preference will be given to those subprojects which are likely to improve the skills of the
workers involved and to expose the contractor to an experience which could be taken
advantage of for future activities.
Eligible subprojects are expected to include, but not be limited to, construction and
repair of urban infrastructure and public facilities, street and drainage network cleaning (especially
sand and garbage removal). as well as services to the population, such as garbage collection
(especially in remote or difficult-to-access areas where the existing waste management system is
not effective). Provided that all the eligibility criteria are met, eligible subprojects will fall into two



Senegal Public Works                  - 7 -
groups. The first group of subprojects--urban works--to which at least 60% of all funds .iill be
allocated include:
(a) works for drainage of low-lying areas, including underground water mains, observation
platforms, cesspools, channel headers, retaining wails, etc.;
(b) minor infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation works (filling in ravines, laying out
sidewalks, repair of gutters and small sanitation works);
(c) works like those under category (b) carried out on a recurring basis and requiring
organizaton of shift work (filling in potholes);
(d) construction of simple buildings such as schools or clinics;
(e) repair of buildings; this category is subdivided in accordance with the specialized labor
involved (coating and painting, carpentry, plumbing, electrical w.Jrk, roofing, finishing,
minor masonry work);
(f) demolition of condemned buildings and recovery of materials; and
(g) clearing of brush and terracing works (road shoulders, embankments, gabions)
requming construction based on pre-established plans.
The second category of subprojects--urban services--to which at most 40% of all funds
will be allocated include:
(a) specific works for cleaning public property: removal of sand from roadways, cleaning
of drainage ditches and gutters, garbage collection, etc.;
(b) works like those under category (a) carried out on a recurring basis and requiring
organization of shift work; and
(c) planting and park works.
2.4     The Agency will submit for IDA approval, prior to effectiveness, a list of subprojects
amounting to a total of US$ 7.5 million (para 3.3b). Also, the Agency will submit for IDA
approval a second batch of subprojects totalling US$ 7.5 million no later than October 15, 1990.
Subprojects whose estimated cost will exceed CFAF 100 million (US$ 316,000) will be subject to
IDA's review and approval prior to final selection by the Executing Agency (para 11-4-2 of the
Procedures Manual). The Agency will, however, carry out the regular appraisal procedure prior to
submitting the project and the appraisal report to IDA for approval.
2.5     Once a subproject has been selected, the public agency which has submitted it ("the
beneficiary") will enter into an agreement ("Convendion de mattrise d'ouvrage dftug6de") with the
Executing Agency -- according to a pre-established model which is attached to section II of the
Agency's Procedures Manual (Annex 2). This agreement will include inter alia the following
provisions:
!



Senegal Public Works                 -8-
(a) the Executing Agency is substituted for the beneficiary for the whole execution of the
subproject ard has full authority, on behalf of the beneficiary, to select the contractors,
sign the contracts, supervise the works, acknowledge delivery, and pay contractors;
(b) the subproject is financed by the Executing Agency, on the basis of the funds made
available to it under the projert, and therefore is additional to the beneficiary's own
capital budget or investment r rogram; the beneficiary will not be requested to reimburse
the cost of the subproject; ana
(c) provisions have also been devised to take care of possible litigation upon delivery of the
completed works to the beneficiary.
It has to be pointed out that the additional requirement (provision (b)), albeit in
contradiction with IDA's usual requirement of cost recovery, is in this case critical to ensure a net
increase in the total demand of works, as compared to regular public investment programs, and
thus ensure incremental employment generation.
2.6     In order to start up actual project implementation without delay after effectiveness, a first
sample of eligible subprojects has been identified. These subprojects have been reviewed and
approved by IDA. Five subprojects ranging from CFAF 9.0 million (US$ 28,500) to
CFAF 105 million (US$ 332,300) are being carried out as subprojects with financing provided by
a second PPF advance granted after project appraisal. These five subprojects comprise:
(a) garbage collection;
(b) removal of sand from streets and drains;
(c) cleaning of urban drainage network;
(d) pavement rehabilitation and/or maintenance of minor streets; and
(e) rehabilitation of public buldings.
These subprojects represent five of the main categories of work likely to be
accomplished under the project (Section m, Annex 2).
2.7     A major critical feature of the project is the Executing Agency's disbursement procedure.
As pointed out above (pL a 1.12), a condition sine qua non for small-scale enterprises to be able to
undertake works commissioned by public agencies without ending up in bankruptcy is that
disbursement procedures be devised to avoid the delays that are commonplace with regular public
procedures. Initial advances to contractors executing the works will be given in exchange for a
bank guarantee or a bond covering 100% of the amount of the advance which in any case will not
be more than 20% of the total amount of the contract Payments will be scheduled according to the
terms and conditions in Annex 2, Section V. Furthermore, initial advances to the consultant
engineer and the contractor will be paid in a timely manner and in a cashable form. For bid
preparations, the consultant engineer will be paid a maximum of 5% of the estimated cost of a
subproject. For supervision and monitoring, the engineer will be paid up to a maximum of 5% of
the total amount of the works. It is expected that the majority of the engineering services will be
provided by Senegalese firms, thus helping to strengthen the local consulting industry. The private
legal status of the Executing Agency will allow the director to direcdy order payments, by signing



Senegal Public Works                 -9-
checks and transfer orders, without being submitted to numerous c%arances and witiout bei-lg
obliged to surrender actual execution of payments to a Treasury officer ("principe de la s6paration
de l'ordonnateur et du comptable"). In order to give incentives to the Executing Agency to
disburse quickly and not be tempted to invest its cash instead of paying its contractors, timely
payment of contractors, not exceeding ten days between work completion and payment, is
considered as a key evaluation criteria of the performance of the agency.
2.8     All disbursements pertaining to contracts, the total amount of which is less than
CFAF 80 million (US$ 250,000), will be on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOE) with
documentation held available locally for review by auditors and supervision missions. The
contractors will receive directly from the Agency the net payment for the work delivered. The
Agency's Director will make replenishment requests of t;.e special account to IDA through the
Ministry of Finance.
A Package of Services Offered to Contractors
2.9     This component aims at increasing the technical and managerial capacity of small- and
medium-scale Senegalese contracting firms in the building and construction trades. The rationale
behind this component is twofold:
(a) most firms in the target group are expected to show weaknesses, in terms of
management, work organization and technical skills, which might jeopardize the
successful implementation of the subprojects that they will be commissioned to carry
out: the provision of some technical assistance to contractors is deemed an effective way
to address this risk; and
(b) conversely, those firms which are going te be awarded contracts under the proposed
projects may be expected to be comparatively more efficient than others, if the selection
process is effective. Therefore, with a view to strengthening comparative advantages
instead of randomly spreading assistance over the whole industry, these firms deserve
more than others to be supported to improve the overall efficiency and competitiveness
of the industry.
2.10    Three subprograms are proposed under this component:
(a) a business administration and financial management program intended for entrepreneurs
and their administrative staff;
(b) a work organization program primarxily designed for foremen; and
(c) various technical training courses to improve the skills of basic workers.
All three subprograms will be very practical, at the "grass-root iovel", and will take the
form of on-the-job assistance and training. Potential beneficiaries will obviously be free to accept
or refuse this form of assistance, except in cases where technical assistance will be deemed
indispensable for successful implementation of the sub-project and will therefore be a condition of
contract award. The Executing Agency will be responsible for administering the three
subprograms but will contract out their implementation.



Senegal Public Works                - 10-
Project Monitoring
2.11    The monitoring component will broaden the scope of the regular supervision of anv
Bank project. Given the wide margin of independence and initiative whick is deemed instrumenta±
to ensure the Executing Agency's efficiency and effectiveness, close and continuous ex-post
supervision and monitoring are essential to prevent the Agency from misusing its autonomous
decision power. Moreover, the many innovative and even experimental features of the proposed
project call for provisions eiiabling the Govemment and the donors to jointly monitor progress of
the project toward the proposed objectives and to take expeditious measures if they assess that
some misconcepdon has prevailed in the project design and that there is a danger of the objectives
being missed. The borrower and IDA will meet at least four tim. s during the two years period of
project execution to exchange views with regard to the progress of the project and sub-projects, the
management of the Agency's operations, the performance of its personnel, including key
personnel, the performance by the Agency of its obligations under the Convention between the
Government and the Agency, and particularly the prorurement practices and procedures being
followed by the Agency pursuant to the Procedures Manual. In order to make relevant information
available for the above mentioned meetings, consultant services (e.g. management and financial
audits of the Executing Agency, studies of th-. impact and performance of already implemented
subprojects and performance of procurement procedures) will be identified and agreed upon with
the Government by regular supervision missions and will be commissioned by the Agency upon
request by the Government in order to deliver findings and recommendations in a timely manner
for the above meetings.
C. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
2.12    IDA's leadership in donor support to structural adjustment results in the Association
being considered as Senegal's main partner for addressing issues rightly or wrongly attributed to
adjustment. In GOS' view, the proposed project is a high priority component of the SDA
program. Meanwhile, IDA's strategy in the urban sector in Senegal is to improve the quality of
infrastructure maintenance and urban services through strengthening municipal institutions and
increasing local resource mobilization, and to foster a more active and less subsidized housing
market by removing institutional and financial bottlenecks which hamper private initiatives in this
sector. Therefore a program of labor-intensive public works aimed at improving the urban
environment is complementary to previous IDA endeavors aimed at similar objectives.
D. Status of Project Preparation
2.13    A first US$ 412,000 PPF advance was granted to finance project preparation which
included:
(a) a survey of the target firms, intended to provide information needed for designing
eligibility criteria and implementation arrangements;
(b) the hiring, as a consultant, of the future director of the Executing Agency to coordinate
the preparation of the agency's organization, procedures and by-laws; and
(c) the short term consultant services in various fields (law, engineering, accounting,
organization, etc.) needed for the above preparation.



Senegal Public Works                - 11 -
2.14    The survey was completed by the end of February 1989. The future director was
selected and approved by IDA in January 1989. He started working part-time for the project on
February 1, 1989, and full-time on April 1. The project was appraised in early March 1989. A
draft of the Agency's Procedures Manual (Annex 2) was completed and submitted to IDA as a
condition for negotiations (para 3.1b). The Procedures Manual was reviewed both by the
Government and IDA, agreed upon at negotiations (para 3.2a) and is attached to the Convendon
to be entered into by the Government and the Agency.
2.15    After appraisal, a second PPF advance of US$ 1.0 million was granted in order to
execute five pilot subprojects, hire the staff of the Executing Agency and to fme-tune
implementation arrangements before full-scale launching of the project.
E. Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.16    iPrject Cost. The project cost is estimated at US$ 33.3 million equivalent (CFAF 10.52
billion) net of taxes and duties. The estimated foreign exchange component is US$ 5.8 million, or
17 % of the total cost. Base cost estimates are in end-88 prices. Price contingencies have been
estimated at 7.5 % of base costs at annual rates as follows:
1989    192Q    1991   1992
Local                   5       5        5       5
Foreign                 3       3        3       3
Since the volume of local works under the first component will be adjusted according to
available funds, price contingencies have not been applied to the estimated local cost of
Component (a). A summary of cost estimates is presented in Table 2.1. Detailed project costs are
provided in Annex 3.
Table 2.1: Estimated Costs
Local   Foreign    _mW_  Foreign
(US$ million)
Component (a): Labor-intensive Civil Works   24.43     3.65    28.08     13%
Component (b): Services to Contractors        1.27     0.00     1.27      0%
Component (c): Monitoring                     0.32     0.25     0.57     44%
Executing Agency Operating Costs              1.19     0.08     1.27      6%
PPF and Executing Agency Capital Budget       0.06     1,55     1.61     96Y
Base Costs                                   27.27     5.53    32.80     17%
Price Contingencies                           0.21     0.29     0.50     58%
Total Project Costs (1)                      27.48     5.82    33.       17o
(1) Numbers may not add due to rounding.
2.17    Financing Plan. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 16.1 million (US$ 20 million
equivalent) will finance 60% of project costs net of duties and taxes; this will cover approximately
US$ 4.6 million of foreign costs and US$ 15.4 million of local costs. All subprojects to be caried



Senegal Public Works                - 12 -
out by the Executing Agency will be exempted from duties and taxes. A US$ 5.0 million local
contribution - 15% of project costs -- will be provided to the Executing Agency from government
budgetary resources to finance new subprojects (in addition to those financed by IDA and AfDB)
(para 3.2b). It was specificallv agreed at negotiations that the Government would: (a) cause the
Executing Agency to execute new subprojects to the aggregate value of US$ 5.0 million equivalent
by June 30, 1992, of which subprojects totalling the equivalent of at least US$ 2.5 million woul.
be completed by June 30, 1991; and (b) would make available to the Executing Agency out of its
own resources all the funds necessary for the execution of those subprojects (see para 3.2b). This
method of covenanting the Government's financial contribution was selected in order to ensure that
the Executing Agency would be ensured an adequate flow of funds to meet its goal of being able to
make expeditious paymen.- to contractors. Cofinancing totalling US$ 8.3 million equivalent (25%
of total project costs) is bting assumed by AfDB. Based on the pledges made at the donor's
conference for Senegal's employment creation program held in May 1989 in Paris, the project is
likely to receive additional financing from other donors, e.g. USAID and UNDP, in its second year.
The proposed financing plan is set out in Table 2.2:
Table 2.2: Financing Plan
% of Total
Lecal     Foreign       Toa1   Proj. Cost
------- - -- (US$ million) ------------
Governmnent                   5.0         0.0         5.0         15%
IDA                          15.4         4.6        20.0        60%
AfDB                          7.1         1.2         8.3        25%
Total Project Costs          27.5         L3.3                  100%
F. Project Implementation
2.18    The implementing arrangements are deemed critical for effective fulfillment of the
project's objective: the Executing Agency has been created as a temporary "self-destructing" body,
with private legal status, fulfilling a condition for negotiations (para 3.1a). Such an agency will be
able to avoid the cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that public institutions are obliged to
follow for calling for bids, awarding contracts and disbursing, and which result in de facto
discrimination against small contractors. The agency's operating procedures and internal
organization have been carefully and precisely designed during project preparation and appraisal and
are contained in a Procedures Manual (Annex 2) which is attached to the Convention to be entered
into by the government and the Agency for the execution of the project. A condition of project
effectiveness would be that a Convention be signed by the Borrower and the Executing Agency
(para 3.3c). As described above (para 2.3 to 2.6), th:s Procedures Manual includes:
(a) eligibility criteria for selecting subprojects submitted by local and central
administrations for implementation under the proposed project;
(b) procedures for selecting contractors, calling for bids, and awarding contracts;
(c) disbursement procedures; and



Senegal Public Works                 -13 -
(d) internal organization for work supervision, control and delivery of comnpleted works.
2.19    In orlder to ensure expeditious implementation of the program, the Executing Agency has
full authority--and will not be submitted to any ex-ante clearance--for carrying out the whole process
of project execution. In particular, the public institutions which will propose subprojects will have
to surrender their authority for execution of the subproject until delivery of completed works. In
return, they will get the works financed by the project in addition to their own investment budgets.
2.20    The Executing Agency will be submitted to close ex-post supervision by the Government
and will have to furnish detailed activity reports every other month. The Government and IDA will
meet at least four times during the period of project execution to exchange views comprehensively
on the project execution performance. Resources of the Executing Agency will be replenished only
upon presentation of properly documented records of the use of funds (para 3.4). The above
mentioned meetings between the Government and IDA may result in proposing and implementing
any measure that will be deemed useful to ensure actual fulfillment of the project's objectives,
including hiring and dismissal of the agency's staff.
2.21    The professional experience of the agency's staff shall be acquired mainly from private
sector. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government concerning its
responsibilities to ensure that any change in the director of the Executing Agency will be acceptable
to the Association (para 3.2c). The compensation offered to the staff will be high enough to make
them attractive for top level professionals. The Agency Director has already been selected and
participated in negotiations. He is a Senegalese with an extremely strong private sector background
as the regional director of a major multinational corporation.
2.22     The creation of the Executing Agency was a condition of negotiations. The recruitment
of the Executing Agency staff, in particular its Director General, Technical Director and Financial
Director with the qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, will be condition of
effectiveness (para 3.3a).
2.23    The project will be executed over a period of two years.
G. Procurement
2.24    The procurement procedures according to which the Executing Agency will select
contractors and award contracts are another important feature of the project. They have been worked
out during appraisal, agreed upon with the Government at negotiations (para 3.2d) and are included
in the Agency's draft Procedures Manual (Sections IH and IV).
2.25    The Agency will maintain a roster of contractors eligible for LCB.  The Executing
Agency at the beginning of its activities will select an initial list of eligible contractors and
engineering firms according to procedures acceptable to IDA and spelled out in the Section III of the
Procedures Manual. When applying for registration, the contractors will provide once and for all the
administrative data regarding the firm and a list of references. Applications will specify the category
or categories of lx trks for which the firm applies (according to a pre-established list of categories
provided in para I1-I of the Procedures Manual), the geographical area in which the firm is prepared
to carry out works, and references relative to the types of works sought. Prior to effectiveness, the
Agency will be required to advertise broadly a call for applications to initiate the roster. IDA will
review and approve this initial selection and satisfy itself that the procedures agreed upon at
negotiation within the Procedures Manual have been satisfactorily followed. This prequalification of



Senegal Public Works                 - 14 -
eligible contractors and engineering firms is a condition o; effectiveness (para 3.3d). The roster will
stay open during the whole project execution so as to allow additional applications at any time.
Large frms using modem equipment are not likely to be interested by the type and size of most
subprojects proposed. (This has been confirmed by the results of the survey carried out as part of
the project preparation.) The purpose of preregistration will be to determine the contractors who can
demonstrate their ability to carry out the proposed labor-intensive works effectively and will
therefore be eligible to bid, Beside the fulfillment of administrative and legal requirements, the
firms' references will be critical for them to be preselected. Later on, actual performance of the
contractors who are awarded contracts by the Agency will provide the basis for the Agency to
reassess their registration and upgrade or downgrade it.
2.26    The target group of firms for technical assistance comprises primarily small scale
enterprises, which are more likely than large ones to bid for labor-intensive projects. However,
given the low level of sophistication of these firms in regard to administrative and financial
management, they are currently discriminated against by the procurement procedures in force for
public contracts (para 1.12). This is one of the basic reasons why it has been deemed necessary to
establish a special agency, with private legal status, to implement the project. Basically, the
objective of the standard procurement procedure will be to ensure fair competition among eligible
contractors without requiring from them the preparation of a complex proposal, including detailed
calculations of price. The core of the procurement procedure will be local advertisement among
registered contractors of a proposed contract for a given subproject. All contractors registered in the
roster for the category of works and the area concerned by the subproject will be invited to bid. The
contract, which will be written in simple language (a model contract is attached to section III of the
draft Procedures Manual (Annex 2)), will describe the scope and nature of works, and propose a
reference price with some straightforward explanations about its calculation (unit prices and
quantities). Contractors will be invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total price or on the
unit prices. Among eligible bidders, the winner will be selected on the basis of the proposed
discount and other criteria (such as timeliness of performance)--if any is specified in the bidding
documents--and invited to sign the proposed contract. The contract awarding committee (Para IV 1-2  I
of the Procedures Manual) vill have full authority to select the winner. However, it will have to
justify in writing, in the minutes of the meeting, and in reference to explicit criteria listed in the
biddi;ig documents, any decision not to select the lowest bid. The contracting awarding committee
will open the bids in public and the bidding fins or their representatives can be present at that
meeting. For all contracts for which there are less than 5 bidders or for contracts with an estimated
cost equal to or greater than CFAF 80 million (US$ 250,000), the awarding committee will submit
its decision to IDA for approval prior to notifying the winning bidder.
2.27    It is anticipated that all the civil works contracts will be below CFAF 150 million
(US$ 500,000). In case any contraLL is higher than this value, international competitive bidding
procedure (ICB) will be followed for such procurement. The procurement table (Table 2.3) does
not reflect ICB procurement.
2.28    Consultant services for training, technical assistance, and project monitoring will be
procured according to IDA guidelines, spelled out in Guidelines Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency.



Senegal Public Works                 - 15 -
H. Disburment
2.29    The proposed IDA credit is expected to be totally disbursed bv June 30, 1992. All
payments for contracts valued below 80 mnillion CFAF will be disbursed against statements of
expenditure with the underlying documeitation held available locally for inspection by IDA s
supervision missions. A condition of disbursement will be that the management of the operations of
the Executing Agency, the performance by the Executing Agency of its obligations under the
Convention, (including procurement procedures) and the performance by the Executing Agency and
Implementing Enterprises of their respective obligations under Subproject Agreements, after review
by the Association and the Borrower no later than January 31, 1991, have been found satisfactory
(para 3.4a). Disbursements will be made on the basis of 100% of total expenditures for the
Association's share of civil works and 100% for all other categories. This procedure has been
selected to ensure the independence of the Executing Agency.
Table 2.3: Procurement (1)
Project Element                              Procurement Method
ICB     LCB    Cons.    N A    Total
------------------------ (US$ million) -----------------------------
Labor-intensive Civil Works            28.08                      28.08
(14.92) (2,              (14.92)
Services to Contractors                          1.27              1.27
(1.27)           (1.27)
Monitoring                                       0.57             0.57
(0.57)           (0.57)
Executing Agency Operating Costs                          1.27     1.27
(1.27)  (1.27)
PPF and Executing Agency Equipment       1.30    0.31              1.61
(1.30)   (0.31)          (1.61)
Total                                  29E       2.13     L2f7  3.2.
(16.22)  (2. 15)   (1.27)  (19.64
(1) Figures exclude price contingencies.
(2) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
2.30    To make Credit funds available in a timely manner and to expedite project implementation,
I         a special account in the name of the Executing Agency will be established in a commercial bank. An
initial advance in CFA Francs equivalent to US$ 2.0 million from the IDA Credit will be deposited
in this special account. The special account will be replenished on the basis of Government
withdrawal requests. Reimbursements will be aggregated into applications of not less than
US$ 500,000 equivalent for submission to IDA or on a monthly basis. The special account will be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Government will be responsible for
reimbursing the special account for any expenditure not acceptable to IDA.



Senegal Public Works                 - 16 -
L. Accouniting. Auditing and Reporting
2.31    Consolidated project accounts will be maintained by the Executing Agency. These
accounts will be audited at the end of each of the first two quarters, and six-mcithly thereafter by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA according to terms of reference agreed by IDA. Auditors
will exprcss separate opinions on statements of expenditures. Project accounts and auditors' reports
will be submitted to IDA within one month of the close of each of the first two quarters and
thereafter within two months of the close of each semester. The Executing Agency will submlit
monthly progress reports and prepare a project completior report within three months of the closing
date.
J. Economic Analysis
2.32    Although the justification of the project cannot be expressed solely in terms of economic
feasibility, an economic analysis has been canried out for a sample cf typical sub-projects on the
basis of a comparison of discounted economic costs and benefits over time. Specific benefits
depend on the type of subproject, but include among other things:
(a) reduction in vehicle operating costs (in the case of urban road maintenance or
rehabilitation subprojects);
(b) reductions ir, the cost of services, in the case of labor-intensive garbage collection
which would otherwise be underitken by more mechanized technologies; and
(c) avoided cost of reconstruction (in the case'of sub-projects invo'-ving maintenance or
rehabilitation of infrastructtre and/or buildings that would otherwise deteriorate).
In the cases of garbage collection and pavement rehabilitation, computed benefitcost ratios are 2.8
and 3 respectively. Annex 6 presents the details of these analyses.
2.33     4n estimated 33% of the US$ 28.1 million direct cost of the civil works will be
distributed as salaries. On the basis of an average dailv wage of US$ 5.30 (CFAF 1,700) and 250
working days per year, this will create about 7,000 man-years of temporary employment in the two
years of project execution. The average direct cost per job per year is less than US$ 4,000 per man-
year. This calculation is based on the iinimum wage rate (SMIG); however since the SMIG is
actually not generally honored by the small firms in constructi n industry, especially with temporary
workers, the quantity of temporary employment created by the project is likely to be significantly
higher than the above figure. Our survey indicates that while the average daily salary paid by large
enterprises is CFAF 1,700, medium enterpnses pay an average daily salary of CFAF 1,300 while
small enterprises pay CFAF 450. To the extent that the last two categories of entcrprises are the
ones executing the works, the project may well create up to 13,400 new temporary jobs, at an
average direct cost of US$ 2,100.



Senegai Public Works                - 17 -
K. Benefits and Risks
2.34    Those who suffer most from unempioyment or underemployment attributed to structural
adjustment policy are the urban poor. Thus, the project has been designed to have a substantial
impact on poverty alleviation, in addition to its econoniic benefits. The ultimate direct beneficiaries
will be the low-paid temporary workers in the building and construction trAes. Since these workers
tenid to spend their wages close to home, subst ' multiplier effects on the local economy can be
expected, although they cannot be quantified. Indeed, the focus of the project is further justified by
the fact that the targeted industry (building, construction, maintenance and urban services)--more
than any other industry--hires and dismisses labor according to contract opportunities. This
maximizes the probability that an increase in the industiy's activity will actually result in an increase
in employment. it is estimated that the su  rojects to be executed will represent a six percent
increase in the annual turnover of the build&.g and construction trades. The proposed project is
justified by indirectly securing other development and structural adjustment objectives through its
contribution to the creation and maintenance of a favorable climate for the Govemment to continue
pursuing adjustment policies.
2.35    The main risks arise from possible inability cf Senegal's economy to develop enough
stable job opportunities during the period of prc gram execution, leading to pressure from the
Government to extend the program beyond its initial period. This risk cannot be addressed within
the proposed project but should be alleviated if the ongoing adjustment process is implemented
successfully. Another risk is that the continuation of employment for those who would benefit from
the program should not take the form of their being hired by local governments when the program
ends. Such continuation of employment would jeopardize previous efforts of public sector
management improvement, including restrictions on personnel hiring, implemented during the recent
years by the central and local governments. Last, the control of proper use of funds is more difficult
with such a program than with regular investment projects. The implementing arrangements have
been carefully designed to minimize this risk.
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1     The following conditions were fulfilled p gor to ne&daions:
(a)  creation of the Executing Agency (para 2.18); and
(b) submission to the Bank of a draft of the Procedures Manual (para 2.14);
3.2     During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government:
(a) on the proposed Procedures Manual (para 2.14);



Senegal Public Works                 - 18 -
(b)  that the borrower would (pa a 2.17)
(i)  cause the Executing Agency to execute new subprojects aggregating the
equiivalent of $5.0 million before June 30, 1992, out of which subprojects
aggregating the equivalent of at least $2.5 million shall be completed before
June 30, 1991, and
(ii) make available to the Executing Agency out of its own resources all the
necessary funds needed fer the execution of these subprojects;
(c) on the responsibility of the Government to ensure that any change in the director of
the Executing Agency will be acceptable to the Association (para 2.21); and
(d)  on the conditions of procurement (paras 2.24 to 2.28).
3.3     The forowing will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the Executing Agency has been staffed and a Director General, a Technical Director
and a Financial Director have been employed with qualifications arid experience
acceptable to the Association (para 2.22);
(b)  the Executing Agency shall have selected subprojects whose aggregate estimated
cost is equivalent to US$ 7.5 million or more and the Association shall have
approved the selection of such subprojects (para 2.4);
(c)  a Convention has been signed by the Borrower and the Executing Agency
(para 2.18); and
(d)  the Executing Agency has prequalified an initial list of enterprises and engineering
firms (pam 2.25).
3.4     The following will be a condition of disbursement:
(a)  that the management of the operations of the Executing Agency, the performance by
the Executing Agency of its obligations under the Convention, (including
procurement procedures) and the performance by the Executing Agency and
Implementing Enterprises of their respective obligations under Subproject
Agreement, after review by the Association and the Borrower not later than
January 31, 1991, have been satisfactory (para 2.29).
3.5     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of
USk 20 million equivalent to the Republic of Senegal on standard IDA trms.



SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Annex 1
The Executing Agency's Statutes and By-Laws



-19 -                             Annex 1
Page 1
EXECUTING AGENCY OF THE
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
BYTAWS OF THE ASSOCIATION
TITLE I -- GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1 Name
In accordance with the laws and regulations currently in effect in
Senegal, there is established, among the legal persons adhering to this
status, an association named the 'Executing Agency of the Public Works and
Employment Project".
Article 2: Headquarters
The headquarters of the association is located at 
Article 3: Duration
The association shall have a duration of   ........ years.
The association may be extended, as may be needed, by a decision of the
General Assembly as provided under article 10 of these Bylaws.
Article 4: Objectives
Within the framework of project administration and, apart from any
profit motive, the association's purpose in Senegal is to undertake any
action aimed at increasing over the short term the demand for public works
and the creation of jobs for unskilled workers and workers with few skills.
For this purpose, the Association establishes the following main
objectives:
(a) Create, at least temporarily, substantial new employment principally
in urban areas as rapidly as possible;
(b) Improve, through execution of the works financed by the project, the
individual skills of the workers who will be employed, the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will carry out works, so as to develop
sustained employment after completion of the project;
(c) Demonstrate the feasibility of widening the area of application of
labor-intensive projects and develop the procedures that would enable the
public sector to commission such projects; and
(d) Produce project results that are economically and socially useful.



- 20 -                            Annex 1
Page 2
Article 5: Composition
The Association is composed of the following founding members:
(a) Mr. Maguatte Wa?. (profession), (address);
(b) Union of Construction and Public Works Workers (abbreviation),
represented by its Secretary General; union headquarters: .............. ;
(c) National Council of Employers of Senegal (CNP), represented by its
Chairman.  Association headquarters: * .................      ..... - ..; and
(d) Association of Mayors of Senegal (abbreviation), represented by its
Chairman; association headquarters: ...........
Article 6: New Members
Acceptance of new members is by vote upon the proposal of a former
member.
Acceptance of a legal person should be requested to the President of the
Assembly provided under article 11 of these Bylaws. The legal peroon should
communicate in writing to the President the name and address of his
representative at the request of the Association.
The General Assembly, provided under article 10, must approve acceptance
of new members.
Acceptance of new members shall take effect upon notification in writing
to the interested party by the Chairman of the Association, following payment
of the new member's dues.
TITLE II -- ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION
Article 7s Disqualification of members
A member's capacity as an Association member is lost by:
(a) death of a member who is a natural person;
(b) dissolution of a member who is a legal person; and
(c) resignation or removal for serious cause declared by the General
Assembly; determination of serious cause is within the authority of the
General Assembly.
Article 8s Modes of loss of capacity as member
A member may resign at any time by noti.ying the Chairman in writing.
The resignation takes effect at the time the notice is received by the
Chairman, unless otherwise stated in the letter of resignation; it is not



- 21 -                           Annex 1
Page 3
necessary for this resignation to be accepted for it to take effect, unless
it is deemed necessary to postpone resignation.
The resignation does not affect the member's obligation, if eny, to pay
his dues for the year in which the resignation takes effect.
The General Assembly shall remove any member whose conduct is harmful
to the Association. The member shall be notified in writing by the President
of the Assembly.
Article 9: Resources
The Association's resources are comprised of:
(a) annual dues of its members, set at CFAF .........., to be paid each
year prior to se............. ; and
(b) subsidies and/or donations that may be paid to it by the Government
of Senegal or by any other organization or foreign country.
Article 10: General Assembly
The Association is administered by a General Assembly composed of the
members whose dues are currently paid.
ArticlL 11: Presidency of the General Assembly
The presidency of the General Assembly is the responsibility of
Mr. Maguatte Wade, founding member of the Association.
The President convenes the members of the Assembly and leads the
discussions. In the case of a tie vote, the President casts the deciding
vote.
The President may require the presence at the Assembly of any other
person, other than its members, as he deems necessary.
The President must order preoaration of the minutes of each meating of
the Assembly.
All decisions of the General Assembly shall be made only if a quorum is
present and there is a majority of two-thirds of the votes of the members
present or represented at the meeting.
Article 12: Powers of the General Assembly
The Assembly is the supreme organ of the Association.
It is responsible for realizing the corporate goals.



- 22 -                            Annex 1
Page 4
For this purpose, the General Assembly shall delegate all powers to the
Director General provided under article 14 of these Bylaws in order to carry
out those objectives and to manage the Agency.
The Assembly shall meet when convened by its President at least once
each year and as often as necessary. Notice of the meetings shall be sent
at least 15 days in advance by registered mail with return receipt requested
or by transmittal memorandum, stating the date, place and agenda for the
meeting.
In the event that, due to reasons not imputable to the Association, a
member does not receive the notice of the meeting, the member cannot pursue
the procedure to nullify the decisions taken at said meeting.
An Association member may give written proxy to another member for the
purpose of representing him at the meetings of the Assembly.
Article 13: Mazsaement of Association activities -- Director General
The Association shall designate its President as the Director General,
whose mission is to be responsible for management of Agency activities.
No member of the Association other than the Director General may
intervene in this management.
The Director General is appointed for the entire duration of the
Association.
The functions of the Director General are inherent in the capacity of
a member of the Association.
Article 14: Removal of the Director General
In the event of serious failure to perform his obligations, the Director
General shall be removed by decision of the General Assembly.
At that meeting, the Assembly shall elect an interim President before
taking any other action.
The interim President shall be elected by secret ballot if a quorum is
present and by majority vote, as set out in article 11 for the purposes of
these Bylaws.
When the decision is voted on, the Director General's vote is not taken
into consideration.
The interim President shall notify the Director General of the removal
by registered letter with return receipt requested.
The removal action itself causes loss of membership in the Association,
in accordance with article 13 of these Bylaws.



-23 -                             Annex 1
Page 5
Article 15: Pwers of the Director General
The Director General has very broad powers to ensure proper operation
of the Agency and performance of the mission assigned to him by the Assembly.
The Director General may contract with outside e.onsulting firms for the
tasks that he deems necessary for execution of the various functions assigned
to him.
The Director General has full responsibility for the funds placed at his
disposal.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting standards and
customarily applied practices, he must maintain accounts and files relating
to his management.
Administration of the Agency by the Director General should conform to
the provisions of the procedures manual that will subsequently be issued.
The Director General is responsible for oversight of proper enforcement
of the project's internal regulations.
He may move the Association's corporate headquarters.
Article 16: Changes in the Bylaws and dissolution
These Bylaws cannot be changed except by the General Assembly under the
conditions of a quorum and by vote of two-thirds majority of the members
present or represented, es provided under article 11.
The Association shall be dissolved upon expiration of the duration
provided under article 3, first paragraph, subject to the possibility that
it may be extended under paragraph 2 of such article.
In the event of dissolution, the General Assembly shall appoint one of
its members to be in charge of liquidation of the Association's property.
In the event of dissolution, that person shall place all property
acquired by the Association at the disposal of the Government of Senegal.
Article 17: Approval of the Association as a nongovernmental
I           organization (NGO)
The President shall dispose of all powers to have the Association
accepted as a national NGO.
Article 18: Monitoring Association activities
The ministries of Social Development and of ............ or their
representatives have the right to visit the Association's installations and
facilities in the presence of the President of the Association.
Dakar, (date)



- 24 -                            Annex 1
Page 6
INTERNAL REGULATIONS
TITLE I -- GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1s General Provisions
These internal regulations are promulgated in accordance with the
provisions of Law 61-34 of June 15, 1961, establishing in Senegal a Labor
Code and the national intcr-professional collective bargaining agreement of
May 2, 1982.
These regulations are intended to ensure, within the Project ........:
(a) Technical organization of the work;
(b) Discipline;
(c) Sanitary working conditions; and
(d) Safety.
The regulations are applicable to all persons employed, regardless of
status.
At the time of appointment, the employee shall acknowledge receipt of
the regulations.
The regulations are to be posted in accordance with current regulations.
(a) A procedures manual will be issued.   This manual provides the
detailed rules for administrative procedures, which are compatible with, and
providing for control in accordance with, the terms of the credit agreement.
Article 2: Contents
The internal regulations include:
(a) technica' organization;
(b) staff recruitment methods;
(c) work organization;
(d) discipline;
(e) modes of breaking a contract of employment; and
(f) health and safety.



- 25 -                            Annex 1
Page 7
TITLE IIs TECHNICAL ORGANIZATION
* ORGANIZATION CHART AND DImVSION OF FUNCTIONS
Article 3s Objectives
The objectives are set out in the procedures manual.
Article 4: Organization Chart
The organization chart is also established (see attached table).
Article 5: Division of functions of management staff
* The Financial Director is responsible for proper operation of the
accounting, finaacial and legal offices.
He coordinates all the actions of the legal department, the accounting
department and the control department.
He is respcnsible for maintaining the accounting system of the project
in accordance with current standards in Senegal.
He is responsible for budgetary, accounting and treasury control.
He is in charge of relations with the outside accounting and auditing
firms.
* The Technical Director is responsible for monitoring administration
and for acceptance of the works.
He coordinates the actions of the projects department.
Details of the staff functions are set out in the procedures manual.
TITLE >'II -- RECRUITMENT
Article 6s Contract of employment
Staff are hired by means of a contract of employment.
The contra-t of employment should be signed by the Director General of
the Agency and by the workers.
It should include the following elements:
(a) Legal nature of the contract (contract for set period of time);
(b) Surname and given names;



- 26 -                            Annex 1
Page 8
(c) Address;
(d) Duration;
(e) Position to be occupied; and
(f) Basic salary, bonuses, compensation and benefits granted to the
worker.
The worker must provide:
(a) record of birth;
(b) judicial record;
(c) documentation supporting the family status (marriage certificate,
etc.);
(d) documentation of diplomas and degrees; and
(e) identification photographs.
In addition, the worker must sign the declaration provided for under
article 9, below.
The Agency should maintain a file on each worker.
Article 7: Recruitment methods
Each worker recruited must undergo a trial period, the length of which
depends on the job he is to occupy.
The trial period is fixed in the contract and cannot exceed the legal
limit.
Article 8: Classification -- remuneration
Classification and remuneration of the employee are fixed depending on
the position to be filled, and in accordance with recognized skills following
the legal and regulatory provisions and the provisions of the collective
bargaining agreement for public works and construction.
Article 9: Agency staff
Agency staff members cannot hold, either directly or through an
intermediary, any interest in the companies or exercise any responsibility
in the public or private institutions that are invited to maintain commercial
relations with the Agency or to benefit from their activity.
Employees cannot accept any remuneration, commIssion or fee on behalf
of such firms or institutions. Each employee is required, at the time they
are hired by the Agency, to complete a declaration setting forth a listing



-27 -                             Annex 1
Page 9
of his commitments, interests or holdings that may conflict with the above-
mentioned rule.
Each employee is allowed a period of one month in which to divest
himself of such commitments, interests or holdings.
Compliance with this requirmemnt is a necessary condition of permanent
employment.
TITLE IV -- ORGANIZATION OF WORK
* HOURS OF DUTY
Article 10, Daily and weekly work hours
The weekly work hours are fixed at 40.
The daily work hours are fixed as follows:
i 3:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
The work week is Monday through Friday.
Work hours shall be posted. Changes In the hours of duty must also be
posted.
Duty coverage on Saturday morning shall be provided by management staff
on a rotating basis; a schedule of duty will be established later.
Article 11: Overtime
Overtime cannot be performed except with the approval of the supervisor.
The Director General of the Agency should be informed.
Under this regulaticn, any hour worked in addition to the fixed hours
of duty under the preceding article constitutes an hour of overtime and
entitles the worker to remuneration calculated in accordance with labor laws.
* ABSENCES
Article 12s Absence for illness or personal time off
For any absence, the Director General of the Agency or the chief of the
department concerned should be informed thereof.  During hours of duty a
Iwsrker may not be absent from his post, even for service reasons, without
permission from the supervisor.
(a) Absences due to illness should be supported by filing a medical
certificate within 48 hours.



- 28 -                            Annex 1
Page 10
(b) Absences allowed for personal use are those provided under the
national inter-professional collective bargaining agreement (article 18 of
the agreement); the employer must be informed in advance.
Article 13: Legal right to vacation
The right to have a vacation is acquired by the yorker after an
effective period of 12 months, called the 'reference period."
It does not automatically entitle the employee to take a vacation. The
employee has the right to take the vacation in part, except that six work
days must be taken.
The Director General of the Agency or the heads of the offices shall
prepare a plan for vacation absences of the staff members under their
responsibility.
Article 14: Other absences
Other absences allowed under labor laws shall follow the provisions of
current regulations.
* PAYMENT OF SALARIES
Article 15: Payment dates
Salary payments are made at the end of each month for all staff members.
Payment is made either by deposit to the employee's postal or bank account,
in cash at the offices of tb'e company, or by check sent to the worker.
Each payday, a pay slip is sent to the employee, who must initial it,
in accordance with current provisions of law and regulation.
Any worker may request an explanation or information relating to his
salary.   He must address any question to the official in charge of the
payroll office.
TITLE V -- DISCIPLINE
* TARDINESS - ABSENCES
Article 16: Tardiness
Tardiness in arriving at work must be explained to the supervisor.
Article 17: Short-term absences
The worker cannot leave or go away from his work post without
permission.   For reasons of service, he must notify his supervisor in
advance.



- 29 -                            Annex 1
Page 11
* CONDUCT
Article 18: Access to offices -- professional secrecy
Within the area of the work place and during hours of duty, employees
must avoid conduct that may disturb the work.
No person may have access to offices unless their presence is required
for work purposes.
Employees are subject to professional secrecy and cannot divulge secret
information to third parties.
In general, the staff is subject to secrecy, impartiality and discipline
similar to such obligations imposed on Government employees.
Laborers and drivers are required to keep in order their tools,
machinery and vehicles after hours of duty.
It is formally forbidden for drivers to transport any person unless
required by the work.  In the event of an accident, the project bears no
responsibility.
* SANCTIONS
Article 19: Main sanctions
Sanctions for infractions under these internal regulations are:
(a) oral remarks;
(b) warning;
(c) reprimand;
(d) suspension from duty; and
(e) dismissal.
Article 20: Taking sanction measures
The su,ervisor makes the decision to impose sanctions; depending on the
seriousness of the infraction committed,  the sanctions may be imposed
directly by the Director General of the Agency.
When the sanction is taken by the supervisor, except in the case of oral
remarks, the Director General of the Agency should be informed in advance.
Article 21: Appeals and claims
Appeals and claims should be filed first with the supervisor. If the
worker does not receive a response to his appeal or claim, or if he is not



- 30 -                           Annex 1
Page 12
satisfied, he may file an appeal himself directly with the Director General
of the Agency
TITLE VI -- BREAKING AN WLOYTHENT CONTRACT
Article 22s  Resignation - Dismissal
Resignations and dismissals are subject to applicable laws and
regulations.
Article 23: Pre-notification
The party wishing to break the contract must allow a pre-notifization
period as provided under applicable laws and regulations.
TITLE VII - HEALTH AND SAFETY
Article 24: Safety and health instructions
Each worker is required to obey the regulations relating to the
prevention of work accidents and occupational disease, while following, in
partlcular, safety instructions.
Safety instructions shall be posted at the work sites to allow employees
to become familiar with them.
Article 25: Failure to follow instruct4ons
Any failure to follow instructions shall give rise to disciplinary
action as provided under article 16.
Article 26: Work accidents
In the event of an accident at work, the victim and any other workers
are required to give immediate notice of the accident to the person in charge
in the Agency.
This person is responsible for carrying out health-care formalities and
paperwork processing at the Social Security Office.
Article 27: Miscellaneous provisions
In accordance with current provisions, these internal regulations shall
be communicated to the workers by posting and shall be subject to inspections
by labor and social security officials as well as any other authorities as
provided under current regulations.
Dakar, (date)
Director General of the Agency



SENEGAL
eUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECr
Annex 2
The Executing Agency's Procedures Manual



- 31 -                            Annex 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Draft Procedures Manual
of the Executing Atency
Section I
General Principles Applicable
to the Executing Agency's Activities
I-1  Obiectives of the EAecutina Agency (Agency)
The main objectives of the Public Works and Employment Project are to:
(a) create, at least temporarily, substantial new employment in urban
areas as rapidly as possible;
(b) improve, through execution of the works financed by the project, the
individual skills of the workers who will be employed, the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that will carry out works, and the efficiency
of the public institutions that will be involved, so as to develop the
economy's capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained
employment after completion of the project;
(c) demonstrate the feasibility of widening the field of application of
labor-intensive projects and test the procedures that would enable the public
sr;_tor to commission such projects; and
(d) produce results that ure economically and socially useful.
While aiming at these broad goals, the specific objectives of the Agency are
to:
(a) avoid increases in civil service staff;
(b) achieve low costs, visibility of the project implementation
structure, and measurable efficiency of working methods; and
(c) put in place transparent and controllable procedures that are
nonetheless simple, streamlined and flexible, in order to identify and
appraise the operations to be carried out, cortracting and payment to firms
involved.
I-2 Working principles
Individually and as a group, the Agency's staff is called upon to
exercise its discretion in accord with the following principles:



- 32 -                            Annex 2
Page 2
(a) Independence: Only the Director is authorized to give instructions,
whether directly or through channels, to the staff of the Agency. Relations
between the Agency and the Administration are governed by the existing
agreement between the Government and the Agency. No authority outside the
Agency can override the Agency's choices of activities, apart from decisions
expressly referring to the Agency's contracting commitments under the above-
mentioned agreement, or with respect to laws and regulations under ordinary
law applicable to legal persons under private law.
* (b) Impartialitys In its relations with third parties, whether dealing
with beneficiaries under Agency programs, suppliers and service agencies, or
any party or institution concerned in any manner with the Agency's activities
or the results of those activities, the Agency will practice no form of
discrimination or preferential treatment and will exclusively use the
decision-making and selection procedures described in this manual.
(c) Cost-effectiveness: Maximum cost-effectiveness, in relation to the
general objectives described under paragraph I-1, should always be sought in
decision-making at all levels and in practical application of the Agency's
procedures.
(d) Economy:    Subject  to  the  above-mentioned  cost-effectiveness
principle, minimizing cost should be a constant concern of the Agency and
each member of its staff. In particular, no preference can be justified in
the utilization or procurement of resources and equipment, or in resorting
to any service, unless strictly needed for the cost-effectiveness of the
Agency's activities.
I-3 Conflict of interest
Employees of the Agency cannot hold, directly or thrLugh an
intermediary, any interest in the firms, or exercise the responsibilities of
the public or private institutions invited to maintain commercial relations
with the Agency or to benefit from the Agency's activities. Employees cannot
accept any remuneration, commission or fee on behalf of such firms or
institutions. Each employee is required, at the time he is hired by the
Agency, to comp'ete a declaration setting forth a list of his commitments,
interests or holdings that may conflict with the above-mentioned rule. Each
employee is allowed a period of one month in which to divest himself of such
commitments, interests or holdings. Compliance with this requirement is an
express condition of permanent employment.
1-4 Obligations of Agency staff members with regard to external
relationships
In carrying out the aireement that it has entered with the Senegalese
Government, the Agency is invested with a public service function.
Accordingly, employees are subject to the requirement to act impartially and
are regulated in a manner similar to that of civil service employees. (See
Section X.)
I



- 33 -                            Annex 2
Page 3
Section II
Procedure for Beneficiaries' Submission
of Prolects to the Atency
II-1 Beneficiaries
The term "beneficiary" means any public institution or authority that
publicly owns capital works that are the subject of Agency action.   Such
institution or authority attains the status of a beneficiary upon the
Agency's acceptance, pursuant to the procedure set out below, of a project
proposed by, and at the initiative of, the institution or authority. The
rights and obligations attaching to this status are set out in the 'terms of
reference of the duties of engineer representative" (convention de maltrise
d'ouvrage deleguee)  (cf. II-8) for each project.   The statute of the
institution or authority has no bearing on eligibility to attain the status
of beneficiary; on the other hand, the institution's or authority's
capability to maintain the works satisfactorily and to utilize them in a
cost-effective manner after delivery of the works is among the project
appraisal factors (cf. II-3).
II-2 Information required upon submission of a project
The applicant submits to the Agency an application package including the
folloving documentation:
II-2-1 On the applicant:
(a) Identification of the applicant, status, areas of competence,
headquarters or address, telephone number, name of person in charge of the
project, name and capacity of the person authorized to sign the terms of
reference of the duties of engineer representative;
(b) Annual budgets of the institution over the last three fiscal years:
investment, operation; percentage of each of the two sections of this budget
devoted to services involved in the present project; and
(c) Description and distribution of the institution's financial resources
(for example, direct taxation, billing for services, Government credits);
II-2-2 On the prolect:
(a) Name of the project; brief description; site (location drawings);
(b) Objectives and justification for the project;
(c) Summary quantitative and qualitative appraisal of the benefits
expected from the project;
(d) Content of the projectt components, description of the works to be
performed, proposed stages;



- 34 -                            Annex 2
Page 4
(e) Stage of completion of the preliminary techaical studies or
schedules; date on which all technical conditions will be fulfilled for
start-up of the works;
(f) Copy of available technical schedules; and
(g) Estimated cost of the project and summary breakdown of this cost by
type -- materials (showing imported materials), labor, equipment, other
expenses -- and, if necessary, by stages.
II-3 Project appraisal factors
Projects are evaluated by the Agency on the basis of criteria
corresponding to the following indicators:
(a) Total estimated cost of the project;
(b) Stage of project planning: time required and cost of the activities
and procurement prior to start-up of works;
(c) The percentage of labor costs in the total estimated cost of the
project;
(d) Average length of jobs generated by execution of the project;
(e) Description of equipment that will be involved in the works and a
statement on the availability of the equipment;
(f) Eventual percentage of imported materials in the estimated cost of
the project;
(g) Qualifications required for companies designated to carry out the
works;
(h) Quantifiable economic and social benefits expected as a result of
the works;
(i) Complementarity of the project's objectives in relation to those of
other projects being carried out or under preparation and, particularly,
those projects included in the Three-Year Public Investment Program (PTIP);
and
(j) The applicant's financial and technical capacity to maintain the
works after completion.
II-4 Pro1ect appraisal methodologies: eligibility criteria
II-4-1.   On the basis of the application package furnished by the
applicant, the technical office of the Agency evaluates each of the
indicators listed under paragraph II-3. A committee composed of the Director
of the Agency, the Technical Director, the Financial Director, and, if
necessary, one or more experts invited to participate at the discretion of



35 -                            Annex 2
Page 5
the Director, meets on the first and third Tuesdays of each month to review
the project packages placed on the agenda by the technical office.  Except
in the event of force maieure, the period of time between submission of a
project and review of the package by the committee should not exceed one
month. The Director chairs the discussions and either accepts or rejects the
projects.
II-4-2. Projects with an estimated cost in excess of CFAF 100 million
are submitted to IDA for approval before they are finally accepted. For this
purpose, the Agency transmits to the Resident Representative of the World
Bank the project package accompanied by the minutes of the committee meeting
(cf. II-4-4, below). If IDA does not respond within one month, the project
is deemed approved. Initial subprojects up to US$7.5 million in total cost
are to be aoproved by IDA.
II-4-3. To qualify, a project must meet the following conditions:
(a) The project must be included in the category of works described in
Section III;
(b) The project must be one of demonstrated economic and social
usefulness;
(c) Total cost must be less than the remaining amount of credit available
for each subproject category;
(d) On-site works must begin in less than three months;
(e) The cost of activities prior to start-up at the work site must be
less than 10 percent of the total cost of the project;
(f) The percentage of labor costs (including social security taxes) must
exceed 20 percent of the total estimated project cost;
(g) The average length of jobs generated by execution of the project must
be greater than two weeks;
(h) There must be at least two classified companies (cf. Section III)
having the required qualification for the geographic area where the project
is carried out;
(i) It must be possible to transport, without additional costs, the
equipment required on the work site, within the time periods provided for
start-up at the site;
(j) There must be no overlapping with another project for which financing
is already assured; and
(k) The project has not been taken out of the PTIP.
II-4-4. The work of the committee will be recorded in minutes. The
reasons for acceptance or rejection of the projects considered will be



- 36 -                            Annex 2
Page 6
expressly set out in the minutes. These reasons must make reference to the
criteria listed under paragraph II-3 and, insofar as possible, to quantified
indicators of these criteria.
II-5 Relations with the applicant during appraisal period
The technical office is authorized to request supplementary information
or clarifications from the applicant during the course of the appraisal and
to issue a deadline for reply, depending on its plan for submisz'on of
projects to the committee. When the technical office determines that the
application package presented is clearly incomplete, it may return the
package  to the  applicant  and  request  that  the  completed  package be
resubmitted to the Agency in the same form as the original package.  The
applicant's failure to respond to requests for additional information within
the prescribed deadline may constitute cause to reject the project.
II-6  Notice of approval or reiection of the prolect
At the conclusion of each committee meeting, the Director will notify
in writing each of the applicants for the projects reviewed, stating the
decision on the project they submitted and, in the case of a rejection, the
essential reasons behind the decision.
II-7 Appeal by applicant
If an application is rejected, the applicant may request a copy of the
committee minutes and the appraisal file for the rejected project.  In the
event the basis for the decision is contested, the beneficiary must set out
in writing the specific arguments bringing into question the decision. Upon
receipt of this letter, the Director of the Agency may decide to place on the
agenda of the next committee meeting a re-examination of the package.
Nevertheless, he has sole discretion in this matter and if the application
is rejected after a second review by the committee, the decision becomes
final.
II-8 Approval of the Terms of Reference
Final approval of a project requires the Beneficiary and the Agency to
enter an agreement, in accordance with the model form attached to this
section. The terms of reference of the duties of the engineer representative
should be signed as soon as possible after the committee meeting at which the
project was approved.  If necessary, additional terms of reference of the
duties of engineer representatives will govern the particular provisions
relating to the Beneficiary's activities in the execution of the project.
These terms of reference of the duties of engineer representative may
especially involve making available the equipment (cf. Annex 2 to this
section), the Beneficiary's execution of certain works to supplement those
of the project, or the Beneficiary's participation in supervision of the
works. The appended agreements should be signed at the same time as the
terms of reference of the duties of engineer representative. They should
have been prepared during project appraisal and added to the package reviewed
by the committee.



- 37 -                            Annex 2
Page 7
Section II. Annex 1
MODEL FOR TERMS OF REFERENCE OF DUTIES OF
ENGIIEER REPRESENTATIVE
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
represented by
hereinafter referred to as 'Beneficiary";
AND
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
represented by its Director,                   , hereinafter referred to as
"Agency";
as follows:
Article 1:   This agreement fixes the conditions for execution of tha
following project (hereinafter referred to as 'the Project'):
located at                           (or which concerns the area within the
bou.adaries shown in the attached drawing). This Project is classified in
category         , in accordance with the classification appearing under
section III-1 of the Agency's Procedures Manual.
Article 2: The Beneficiary hereby delegates to the Agency, which accepts,
all prerogatives, rights, and obligations relating to the supervision of the
performance of the works, studies and other services necessary for execution
of the Project. In particular, the Agency undertakes, for this purpose, the
following responsibilities:   selection of engineers and supervision of
preliminary studies, preparation of notices to bidders or bidding documents,
selection of companies (subject to the provisions of Article 3, below),
signing contracts, supervision and acceptance of the work, and payment to
companies.
Article 3: The Beneficiary may be represented before the awarding committees
for contracts  relating to the Project.    The Agency will notify the
Beneficiary of the date and place of the meetings of these committees at
least five work days before the meeting.   However, if the Beneficiary's
representative is absent, the committee is not prevented from holding the
session and making a valid selection.
Article 4: The Beneficiary may attend the final acceptance of the works, the
date of which will be transmitted to him by the Agency at least five work
days before such acceltance.   The Agency's representative shall decide,
however, whether to accept or refuse delivery.



- 38 -                            Annex 2
Page 8
Article 5: The Agency or the engineers engaged by the Agency to carry out
the Project may at any time consult with the Beneficiary or require it to
perform administrative tasks for matters involving execution of the Project.
The Beneficiary shall respond to these inquiries or requests with all due
diligence.
Article 6: The Beneficiary is barred from any activities, other than those
mentioned under articles 3, 4 and 5, above, in execution of the Project, and
particularly, in performance of the works and contacts with companies.
Article 7: The Agency is solely responsible with relation to third parties
involved in execution of the Project. The Agency shall provide, or cause to
be provided, full insurance needed to cover the corresponding risks.
Article 8: This agreement shall terminate upon delivery of the work to the
Beneficiary, which is expected to be on (date)      . In the event that this
date is delayed by more than three months, the Agency shall notify the
Beneficiary as soon as possible.   The Beneficiary is required to accept
delivery of the works in the current state of completion. Any guarantees in
effect on the date of delivery of the work shall be transferred to the
Beneficiary.
Article 9:   All costs arising from execution of the Project are the
responsibility of the Agency.
Done at       _
on____
For the Beneficiary:                For the Agency:



39 -                           Annex 2
Page 9
Section II. Annex 2
EQUIPMENT AVAILABILITY AGREEMENT
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
, represented by
hereinafter referred to as 'Beneficiary";
AND
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
represented by its Director,                  r hereinafter referred to as
'Agency';
as follows:
Article 1: This agreement completes the terms of reference of the duties of
engineer representative dated                established by the Beneficiary
and the Agency for '!xecution of the following project (hereinafter referred
to as "the Project' s
Article 2: The Beneficiary shall make available to the Agency for a period
of        , gratis, the following equipment:
The condition of this equipment is set out in the summary attached to
this agreement.
Article 3: Upon completion of the period of availability, a new summary >f
the condition of the equipment shall be made. The Agency guarantees return
of the equipment in the condition in which it was made available to it.
Article 4:  The Agency may entrust use of the equipment to the company
responsible for execution of the Project works. It will take the necessary
steps to provide for maintenance of the equipment and to cover all risks
relating to use of the equipment.
Article 5: All expenses arising from use of the equipment (particularly,
labor, fuel and other consumable supplies, maintenance, and materials) are
the responsibility of the Agency.
Article 6:   Extension of the period of availability established under
Article 2 shall be set out in an amendment to this agreement.



- 40 -                            Annex 2
Page 10
Done at_
on
For the Beneficiary:                For the Agency:



- 41 -                            Annex 2
Page 11
Section III
Procedure for Preselection and
Classification of Companies
III-1 Classification of works:
Works qualifying for inclusion in the project are classified into ten
categories of subprojects:
(1) "Works' subprojects, for which 60 percent of funds will be
allocated, comprising:
(a) works for drainage of low-lying areas, including unCerground
water mains, observation platforms, cesspools, channel headers, retaining
walls, etc.;
(b) minor infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation works
(filling in ravines, laying out sidewalks, repair of gutters and small
sanitation works);
(c) works like those under category (b) carried out on a recurring
basis and requiring organization of shift work (filling in potholes);
(d) construction of simple buildings;
(e) repair of buildings; this category is subdivided in accordance
with the specialized labor association involved (coating and painting,
carpentry, electrical work, roofing, finishing, minor masonry work);
(f) demolition of condemned buildings and recovery of materials;
(g) clearing of brush and terracing works (road shoulders,
embankments, gabions) requiring construction based on pre-established plans;
(2) 'Services" subprojects, for which 40 percent of funds will be
allocated, comprising:
(a) specific works for cleaning public property: removal of sand
from roadways, cleaning drainage ditches and gutters; garbage collection,
etc.;
(b) works like those under category (a) carried out on a recurring
basis and requiring organization of shift work; and
(c) planting and park works.
III-2 Classification of companies
III-2-1.   Upon start-up of  its activities,  the Agency shall be
responsible for providing widespread publicity within Senegal, by means of
the press, radio and television, of its objectives and methods of operation



- 42 -                            Annex 2
Page 12
and particularly the conditions under which a company can put itself in a
position to be able to carry out works on behalf of the Agency (cf. II-2-2,
above).
III-2-2. A company may at any timis request to be included in the
registry of companies that are eligible to execute works falling under one
or more of the categories set out in Ill-1. For this purpose, the company
should furnish an application package including:
-  the company's business name, its status, corporate headquarters,
commerce registration r.umber, amount of capital stock and the name and
address of the person authorized to represent the company;
-  a declaration from the bank stating the conditions under which the
company may benefit from a guarantee;
- a statement certifying that the directors of the firm are r.ot under
order to refrain foom business activities;
-  the boundaries  (in the form of a list of departments) of the
geographic a--t in which the company is willing to operate;
-  a list of references relating to the categories of works for which
the company is requesting classification as a qualifying company; each
reference shall be accompanied by the following information:
Brief description of the works and main contractor works by the
company;
Contracting party and owner of the works;
Amount and type of the contract;
Duration of works after the initial service order;
Status of works (undergoing construction, completed,
provisionally accepted, finally accepted);
Project works completion date, predicted or certified;
Status of contract, (paid off or not); and
-  list of equipment owned outright by the company, or leased or lent
to the company.
III-3  Review of classification requests
The Agency may decide on its own whether to accept or reject a company's
application to participate.   The Agency shall notify the company of its
decision and, if necessary, the reasons for rejection, within a period of one
month counting from receipt of the request. A company that has been rejected



- 43 -                            Annex 2
Page 13
cannot file a new request for the same category prior to six months after the
rejection.
III-4 Reclassification and disqualification
Upon complet.on or during the course of the company's execution of the
works entrusted to it by the Agency, the Agency may proceed to review the
classification of the company to expand or reduce the list of categories of
works for which the company is qualified.  Not-ification of the result of such
review shall be carried out in the same manner as those applicable to the
initial classification and has the same consequences.
III-5 RiRhts of the classified companies
Any nompany that, as of the beginning of the bidding process, 'was
regularly included in the register of companies qualified for the category
of works involved in the bidding, and for the geographical area that includes
the place where the works are to be carried out, will be invited through the
pre3s to obtain the bidding package, either at the Agency's headquarters or
at the office of the Agency's local representative assigned for this purpose.
The company may waive the right to present a bid and this will not bring into
question its classification nor the rights attaching thereto.



- 44 -                            Annex 2
Page 14
Section IV
Procedure for Awarding Contracts
for Goods and Services
Subsection IV-1
Normal Procedure
Contracts in Amounts Less Than CFAF 100 million
IV-1-1  Bidding by companies
Biddingt documents
The Agency, with technical assistance provided by the engineer (cf.
Section V), is responsible for preparing the bidding documents, which include
the following:
(1) A draft contract following a model (cf. Section IV, Annex 1), which
specifically states the description, organization and location of the works
to be carried out, the expected duration of the works, the estimated amount
of the contract, and the schedule of payments;
(2) The price list, which is a contract document of the highest
importance, in which there appears a precise description of the services and
limitations involved in each of the tasks, for which there is an individual
price, with reference to a unit of measurement (square meters, cubic meters?
etc.);
(3) The approximate breakdown of the works, accompanied by a urvey, a
work plan, site plans or possible typical plans; the approximate amount shown
in the draft contract will be the result of multiplying the unit prices by
the quantities; and
(4) The notice to bidders, which includes, particularly:
(a) The list of factors that the contract awarding committee will
take into consideration to make its decision at the time the bids are
examined;
(b) The deadline for filing submissions, receipt of which will be
acknowledged at the Agency's headquarters or at the office of its local
representative; and
(c) The date the awarding committee will meet.
Items (1), (2), and (3) are intended to become, after any amendments,
the contract documents for the procurement; item (2) (the price list) is a
priority document, and this is stated in the contract.



- 45 -                            Annex 2
Page 15
Submission of bids
Submissions shall be in the form of a letter signed by the authorized
representative of the company and accompanied by three contract documents
(draft contract, price list, approximate breakdown of works), any subsequent
amendments being duly initialed; the submissions are to be filed in a sealed
envelope at Agency headquarters or with the Agency's local representative,
within pre-established deadlines.
Submissions must state:
-  the amount of the company's proposed discount on the estimated
reference price for all the works;
-  any proposal to modify the unit prices set out in the price list;
-  any proposal to modify the duration or planning of the works and/or
of the schedule of payments;
-  a description of any changes proposed in relation to the organization
and planning of the works, as a function of the working quantities in the
approximate breakdown; and
-  the bids submitted will be opened in public session, and the bidders
or their representatives may be present.
Any contract provision or other documents included in the bidding
documents that the company is not pioposing to modify in the submission shall
be deemed approved by the company.
IV-1-2 Awarding the contracts
Awardinm committee
The awarding committee, which is presided over by the Directo. of the
Agency or his representative, meets at the Agency's headquarters or at any
other site designated by the Director in advance and in writing.   The
committee is composed of the Chairman, the Technical Director of the Agency
or his representative, the Adminisurctive and Financial Director of the
Agency, and a representative of the beneficiary of the works. Committee
decisions are made by vote of the absolute majority. The committee may be
assisted by a designated representative of the engineer to be responsible for
supervision of the works, and also by a representative of the beneficiary.
These representatives do not have the power to vote.
Committee authorities
The committee shall select the bid that it determines to be the best.
However, if the committee's selection is not the lowest bid, the committee
shall base its selection on the criteria listed in the bidding documents.
The reasons for its decision shall be set forth in the minutes of the
meeting. Once the committee has made its decision, the Agency shall notify



- 46 -                            Annex 2
Page 16
all the other bidders of t1he rejection of their bids. The Agency will amend
the contract and attached documentation proposed in the bidding documents to
reflect the provisions of the winning bid, without entering into any other
form of negotiation with the winning firm.  The contract shall be signed
immediately by the two parties.
In the event that no bid is considered to be satisfactory, the comittee
may declare the bidding procedure to have failed and proceed to direct
negotiation with a company of its choice among the companies that had been
contacted, whether the company had filed a bid or not.
In the specific cases in which there are fewer than three bidders, and
for any procurement the estimated cost of which is CFAF 100 million or more,
the committee will submit its decision to IDA for approval before notifying
the winning firm of its decision.



- 47 -                            Annex 2
Page 17
Subsection IV-2
Procedure for International Bidding
Centracts in Amounts Equal to or Exceeding US$500,000
Contracts in amounts estimated to be over US$500,000 are processed under
the procedure for international bidding, following the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Contracts Financed by World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,"
published by the World Bank and the International Development Association in
May 1985.
Subsection IV-3
Procedure for Employment of Consultants,
and Contracts for Engineering and Proiect Supervision
IV-3-1. The procedure for procuring services of consultants is the one
set out in the "Guidelines for Use of Consultants' published by the World
Bank and the International Development Association in August 1981.
IV-3-2. The procedure for procuring engineering and project supervision
services is set out in Section V-4, below.



- 48 -                            Annex 2
Page 18
Section IV, Annex I
Model Works Contract
Contract No.                        awarded following the request for
proposals of                , 1989, concerning the Subproject designated as:
Signed on:
Recorded on:
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
hereinafter referred to as the 'Agency," represented by its Director,
, as one party,
AND:
, represented by           , acting
in the capacity of                      in the name of and on behalf of said
company and hereinafter referred to as the 'Entrepreneur,' as the other
party, as follows:
Article 1: PURPOSE OF THE CONTRACT
This contract is for execution of works of
broken down into _ _   separate tasks, each having an individual price
calculated on the basis of ore unit of the corresponding quantity, in
accordance with the price list attached hereto.
Article 2: LOCATION OF WORKS
The works described under article 1 shall be performed in the town(s) of:
located in:
Article 3: AMOUNT OF CONTRACT
The amount of the contract, exclusive of taxes, as stated in the
approximate breakdown, is the sum of: CFAF              _              on the
basis of prices as of                , 1989.
The prices given in the Price list have been evaluated taking into
account the cost prices of labor, including social security taxes, total,
cost, including taxes, of the supplies delivered to the work site, the sales
cost of work site equipment, including provisions for depreciation, as well



- 49 -                            Annex 2
Page 19
as work site installation expenses, overhead and miscellaneous costs of the
works, operating burdens, hazards and benefits.
The total amount of the contract, including taxes, is
Article 4: ORGANIZATION AND DURATION OF THE WORKS
The works shall be performed in accordance with the breakdown into
tasks described under article 1.
For each of these tasks, performance shall be entrusted to a set number
of teams composed of laborers and workers of various skills.
The composition and number of teams needed, depending on the amount of
work and the projected output, are shown in the annexes to this document
(organization chart).
(The bidder is invited to inspect the chart. modify it if necessary and
complete it in order to furnish a specific detailed orgtanization plan for the
works.)
While being based on an average number of               days worked per
month, this contract shall be concluded within a completion period of
months, counting from the date of the service order fixing the beginning date
of the works in question.
The expected date of completion of the works is                  , 1989,
or any other date mutually agreed upon by the Agency and the Entrepreneur.
Article 5: PENALTIES FOR LATE DELIVERY
In the event of a delay In execution of the works in relation to the
time periods fixed in the service order, the Entrepreneur is subject to a
penalty of one one-thousandth of the amount of the works ordered per day of
delay, except in the case of force maieure, in which case the Agency will
evaluate the additional time to be allowed and so inform the company.
Article 6: SETTLEMENT AND SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
Monthly invoices shall be prepared on the basis of progress of the
works. The invoices will clearly state the amount of the works done during
the month in question, as well as the cumulative amount of the works done as
of the last day of that month.
These amounts of work are calculated with reference to the prices in the
price list, by multiplying these prices by the quantities actually executed,
after inspection by the engxneer assigned by the Agency.
The payments shall be made in Dakar under the responsibility of the
financial office of the Agency, upon presentation of the invoices prepared
by the technical office and accompanied by works progress statements,
certified by the engineer.



- 50 -                           Annex 2
Page 20
The time of payment shall not exceed thirty (30) days counting from the
approval of the Entrepreneur's monthly invoice by officials of the technical
office of the Agency.
Article 7: UPDATING AND REVISION
The contract does not prov'.de for updating or revision of prices, in
view of the time periods given 'or completion of the works.
Article 8: MOBILIZATION ADVANCE UPON START-UP OF THE WORKS
A fully bonded mobilization advance not exceeding 20 percent of the
amount of the contract will be granted to the Entrepreneur, at the time of
issuance of the service order.
Article 9: LIABILITY OF THE ENTREPRENEUR
The Entrepreneur is directly and personally liable to the Agency, for
proper execution and quality of the works.   The Entrepreneur agrees to
furnish to the engineer assigned by the Agency all information, schedules,
calculations and all supporting documentation that may be requested of it.
Article 10: CONTROL OF THE WORKS
The works are placed under the control of the engineer assigned by the
Agency. The Entrepreneur must defer to all written or verbal orders from the
engineer, and the Entrepreneur is responsible for stating any reservations
within a period of ten (10) working days.
Article 11: LABOR -- HEALTH
The Entrepreneur is subject, in the employment of labor, to regulations
under current law at the time the works are performed and, in particular, the
Federal collective bargaining agreement for Construction and Public Works
companies dated July 6, 1956 and the annexes thereto.
Article 12: DISPUTES AND LITIGATION
If,  over  the  course  of  the works,  problems  arise  between  the
representatives of the engineer assigned by the Agency and the Entrepreneur,
the problem shall b' referred to the representative of the engineer who will
then issue his decision.
If the Entrepreneur does not accept this decision, each of the parties,
that is, the Agency on one hand and the Entrepreneur on the other, agrees to
seek the opinion of an arbitrator; in the event of disagreement between the
two arbitrators, they shall name a third arbitrator who shall issue the final
decision, in accordance with current regulations in Senegal.



- 51 -                            Annex 2
Page 21
Article 13: CONTRACT DOCUIIENTS
The four documents listed below, which the Entrepreneur has full
knowledge of, contain all the conditions and terms of this contracts
-  The present draft contract;
-  The price list;
-  The approximate breakdown; and
-  Bidding documents.
Article 14:  The present contract shall take effect when signed by both
parties.
Approveds                                Dakar,          , 1989
The Entrepreneur                         The Director of the Agency



- 52 -                            Annex 2
Page 22
Section IV. Annex 2
Letter of Submission of Bid
Request for proposals of             , 1989, concerning the Projects
I, the undersigned                                , acting in my capacity as
_   in   the   name   of   and   on   behalf   of
, hereinafter referred to as the "Entrepreneur," listed
on the commerce registry of                    under number
domiciled  3t  the  following  address,  _
telephone                            , and whose tax identification number is
After having read the bidding documents relating to the above-mentioned
works, and in particular the followitg four documents:
-  Draft contract;
-  Price list;
-  Approximate breakdown; and
-  Bidding documents.
Having evaluated the nature and difficulties of the company from my
point of view and under my responsibility;
Accept, without restrictions, all the provisions in the Bidding
Documents;
Submit a price list bearing my signature and completed by me following
the model that was sent to me;
Agree, as the Entrepreneur, to carry out the works named below,
following the provisions of the price list; and
Submit a draft contract bearing my signature, including my proposals for
changes in the provisions of this contract.
The Exec.uting Agency shall pay the amounts due from it and set forth in
the detailed work statements, by crediting the bank account opened in the
name of:                              , number                       , at the
branch of the                      bank.
Done in one original copy
at Dakar,                , 1989
The Entrepreneur



- 53 -                            Annex 2
Page 23
Section V
Procedures for Monitoring and Supervision of Works
V-1 Advanee Pavments
All contracts with a duration exceeding four months normally include
disbursement to the company of a mobilization advance upon start-up of the
works.   The mobilization advance, which is fully backed by a bond, is
governed by the following rules:
(a) The mobilization advance should allow the company to purchase
materials and to mobilize the necessary equipment for start-up of the works;
the amount of the advance payment is fixed in each contract in the form of
a percentage of the total amount of the contract, which is determined on a
case by case basis depending on the nature of the works and the amount of
materials and equipment put into the work.
(b) The mobilization advance shall be paid following the signing and
recording of the contract upon certification by the technical office of the
Agency and the engineer responsible for supervision of the works.        Other
than in the event of an exception, the mobilization advance is not paid for
contracts the expected duration of which is less than four months or that
correspond to work categories that do not give rise to the acquisition of
materials or leasing of equipment.
V-2  Works progress cards and relationship to contract accountinz
Based on the work statements issued each month by the companies and
reviewed by the engineers, the technical office shall maintain for each
contract a works progress card following the model attached to this section.
The works progress cards provide the information to be included in the
summary statements furnished every other month by the Agency under the
framework of its activity reports (cf. Section VIII). Each time when the
card is updated, one copy of the works progress card is transmitted to the
financial office, which compares it with the contract card (cf. Section VI)
on which the disbursements made on the contract in question are recorded.
V-3 Supervision of the works
Taking into account the limited staff of the Agency's technical office,
direct control of the works by the Agency is not the usual procedure. The
normal procedure consists of contracting with an engineer or a provider of
services outside the Agency to perform all the tasks relating to supervision
of the companies and control of the works.   A model contract for work
supervision is attached to this section. The engineer assigned by the Agency
is responsible, in particular, for the following functions:
(a) Before awarding the contract:
(i)   Preparation of the documentation of a technical nature in the
bidding documents in cooperation with the Agency's technical office; and



- 54 -                            Annex 2
Page 24
(ii)  attending the meeting of the contract awarding committee as
an observer.
(b) During the course of the works:
(i)   Constant oversight cf the works through an intermediary who
oversees the works and is the engineer's permanent representative at the work
site;
(ii) Weekly visits to the work site with the company's
representative for the purpose of identifying any problems that may arise,
to inspect the quality of the works under way and to give all necessary
instructions to ensure efficiency in carrying out the works; a brief report
shall be written on each weekly visit and shall be filed in a works
monitoring folder;
(iii) Control and certification of the work statements; and
(iv) The role of permanent liaison between the companies and the
owner for any questions involving execution of the works.
(c) After completion of works:
Technical assistance of the owner for provisional acceptance and
final acceptance of the works.
V-4 Selection of the enRineers
The Agency maintains an index file of engineers, which includes the
following data on each engineer:
-  Identification (company name, address, telephone number) of the
organization in question;
-  Name of the responsible official;
-  List of the work categories (cf. Section III-1) for which the
organization in question can provide supervision of the works;
-  Description of the geographical area in which the organization will
agree to operate; and
-  Inventory and summary evaluation of the services already performed
on behalf of the Agency.
The procedure to apply for inclusion in this index file and the methods
for the Agency's review of the applications are similar to those that ate
applicable to the classification of companies (cf. Secti,ns III-2, III-3 and
III-4).



- 55 -                            Annex 2
Page 25
Depending on the nature and location of the works, the Agency selects
from its index file the engineer that seems most qualified and mutually
negot.ates with the engineer a contract for services, using the model
contract attached to this section.
V-5 Supervision of entineers
One of the essential functions of the technical office of the Agency is
to supervise the engineers who are responsible on the Agency's behalf for
control of the works. For this purpose, the technical office undertakes a
number of unannounced visits to the work sites at which they call apon the
engineer in question.   The purpose of these visits is to verify proper
performance of the engineer's contractual obligations. The evaluation of his
services should therefore refer solely to the works supervision contract
which includes, in particular, the generally applicable obligation placed
upon the engineer to respect the rules of the trade.
V-6 Direct control of the works by the Agency
On an exception basis, the Agency may choose to act as its own engineer.
The decision to do so shall be made by the Director of the Agency when the
following conditions apply:
(a) No engineer is available for the project in question in the engineer
index file and the project cannot be deferred;
(b) The project is simple enough to be effectively supervised by the
small staff of the technical office; and
(c) The project's location does not impose on the staff responsible for
supervision any travel that is not compatible with proper execution of their
normal duties.
V-7 Provisional acceptance and final acceptance
V-7-1. The company shall notify the engineer and the technical office
of the Agency of the date on which the work will be completed. The engineer
then calls upon the company for the acceptance operations that should take
place as soon as possible.
Verifications involve:
- Verification of completion or partial failure to complete the
works; and
- Verification of any defects or faults.
V-7-2. The engineer prepares a summary report that he signs together
with the company. (If the company refuses to sign, such refusal shall be
stated in the summary report.)  After reviewing the summary report, the
Agency's representative shall decide either to declare that the works are
accepted or that the works are accepted with reservations, and shall notify



- 56 -                            Annex 2
Page 26
the company of his decision while enjoining the company to execute or
complete the omitted or incomplete works and to remedy any defects and faults
that were found, within a fixed period of time. After such period of time
has elapsed, the Agency has the right to have the works mentioned in the
summary report of provisional acceptance carried out by a firm of its choice
at the expense and risk of the company that entered the contract.
V-7-3. The remainder of the amounts owed to the company shall normally
be paid upon provisional acceptance without any withholding due to the
omitted or incomplete works or the defects and faults encountered. In the
event of serious faults or failures, the Agency may refuse to declare the
provisional acceptance and may issue a service order to the company to
demolish the defective works or those that do not conform to the contract
specifications and to re-do the works.
V-7-4. The period of the guarantee set out in the contract begins to
run from the date of provisional acceptance of the works. During this period
of time, the company is formally placed on notice by the Agency to execute
the work that the guarantee requires it to perform. In the event of refusal
or noncompliance, the Agency has the right to perform the work on its own
initiative and to take out of the company's bond (if any) the amounts needed
to pay for the expenditures committed.
V-7-5. Final acceptance shall be declared at the end of the guarantee
period by  means of a minute sent to the company.  The Agency shall then
issue a release of the bond subject to execution of the works required of the
company under the guarantee.



_ 57 _                            Annex 2
Page 27
Section V. Annex 1
Model Works Suvervision Contract
Contract No.                    entered following mutual agreement and
involving the supervision of the following project:
Signed on:
Recorded on:
It is hereby agreed,
BETWEEN:
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project,
he_.inafter referred to as the 'Agency," represented by its Director,
, as one party,
AND:
, hereinafter referred to as th-
'Engineer," represented by            , as the other party,
as follows:
Article l  PURPOSE OF THE CONTRACT
This contract is for execution of the services of works supervision,
including the technical studies and control of the works to be carried out
in relation to the project  
Article 2: LOCATION OF THE SUBPROJECT
The works described under article 1 shall be performed in the town(s)
of:
__ _  located in:
Article 3s DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION FURNISHED BY THE AGENCY
The Agency,  acting as owner representative,  shall furnish to rhe
engineer the following documents and information:
-  The layout plan of the site(s) with contour lines, showing location
of existing buildings to be rehabilitated and neighboring buildings;



- 58 -                            Annex 2
Page 28
- Drawings of the existing roads, access routes, locations and
characteristics of the existing utility systems (water, gas, electricity,
sewers and possible connecting points);
-  Geological and geotechnical characteristics of the sub-soil, as well
as the results of possible test borings carried out at certain sites, if
necessary; and
- All indications on the legal status of the land property with regard
to property easements or town planning and government taxes or liens, the
Agency as owner representative being the sole interpreter of its land rights.
Article 4: PRINCIPLE FOR ENGINEER'S INTERVENTION
The engineer is directly responsible, in consultation with the Agency's
technical office, for preparation of the Agency's technical specifications
for the subproject named under article 1. In particular, he is responsible
for preparation of the following bidding documents for the works contract:
-  Price list; and
- Approximate breakdown and annexes, such as surveys, plans, sample
drawings, etc.
The engineer assists the Agency in selection of the bids presented by
the aompanies.
The engineer is responsible for preparation of the work site, after the
works contract has been awarded and implements all the procedures and
documents relating to monitoring of the works, while remaining in touch with
the techrical office of the Agency.
The engineer is responsible for control zf proper execution of the works
and, in this regard, verifies:
-  the quantities expected;
-  the quality required under the technical specifications; and
-  the periods of time set for carrying out the works.
The engineer is the Agency's advisor in the defense of its interests,
particularly in the event of possible disputes.
The engineer shall perform his mission following the rules of his trade,
while furnishing the services necessitated by the nature and size of the
project, under the framework of the chart of seLvices appearing in an annex
to this contract. Moreover, he shall act in accordance with the instructions
given to him by the Agency concerning the work schedule, time frames, order
of priority of the works and modes of execution.



_ 59 _                            Annex 2
Page 29
Article 5: CINDITIONS FOR EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT SUPERVISION CONTRACT
All the documents and files furnished as set forth below, must follow
the rules in effect concerning Construction and Public Works in Senegal.
A. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
The engineer shall establish, in cooperation with the Agency's technical
office,  the  technical  specifications,  which  shall  include  all  the
documentation necessary to carry out bidding limited to the enterprises that
were prequalified by the Agency:
-  Draft contract for the works;
-  Bidding documents;
-  Price list;
-  Approximate breakdown and annexed documents, such as surveys, plans,
sample drawings, etc.; and
-  Site plans reviewed and completed on the brAsis of those sent by the
Agency.
B.   COORDINATION AND CONTROL DOCUMWNTS
The engineer shall prepare, in cooperation with the technical office of
the Agency as he deems necessary, all the documents for preparation,
monitoring and inspection of the execution of the company's workt
-  Work schedule;
-  Plans for the work site;
-  Preparation of the monthly work statements;
-  Tests and laboratory reports on the materials used in the work;
-  Reports on quality control of necessary supplies and equipment;
-  Inventory and materials management reports;
U                 -  Reports on control ot the employment of materials;
-  Summaries of work site visits;
- Summaries of working meetings between the company and the Agency;
-  Technical documents on any amendments or variations proposed by the
Agency; and
-  Summary of the provisional and final acceptance of the works.



- 60 -                           Annex 2
Page 30
Article 6s ENGINEER'S REMUNERATION
The engineer's remuneration is fixed as follows:
(a) for preparatory tasks, a maximum of 5 percent of the estimated cost
of the subproject; and
(b) for coordination and control tasks, a maximum of 5 percent of the
amount of the works contract.
Article 7s UPDATING AND REVISION OF PRICES
The prices in the present work supervision contract are fixed and cannot
be revised.
Article 8: SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS
Settlement of the amounts due under the heading of fees for the
engineer's work shall be scheduled in the following manner:
For preparatory work:
A. Signing contract for engineering work ............... .20S
B. Completion of technical specifications for bids ...... 802
For coordination and control work:
A. Monthly progress of the works****..**................ 80%
B. Acceptance of final delivery report,
or bank security of same amount..             ..*..20%
Article 9: LIABILITY OF ENGINEER                                                        j
The engineer is directly and personally liable to the Agency for the
design of the subproject works.
Article 10: MONITORING SERVICES
Services are placed under the control of the Technical Director of the
Agency, who reports in turn to the Director of the Agency. The engineer must
defer to all the written or verbal orders of the technical office of the
Agency and must submit any reservations in writing within a period of ten
(10) days, beyond which period no reservations will be accepted.
Article 11: CHANGES IN THE PLANS
In the event that the Agency chooses to make basic changes in its plans
during any stage of execution, provision shall be made for the engineer to
receive additional fees depending on the additional services needed to
Implement these changes.  Any amendment to this contract is then drafted to



- 61 -                            Annex 2
Page 31
fix, in such an event, the conditions and additional remuneration applicable
to the engineer.
Article 12s DISPUTES AND LITIGATION
If, over the coutee of the works, problems arise between the
representativ,ss of the Agency and the engineer, the problem shall be referred
to the Director of the Agency, who will then issue his decision in writing.
If the engineer does not accept this decision, each of the parties, that
is, the Agency on one hand and the engineer on the other, agree to seek the
opinion of an arbitrator; in the event of disagreement between the two
arbitrators, they shall name a third arbitrator who shall issue the final
decision, in accordance with current regulations in Senegal.
Article 13: LABOR LAWS
Labor regulations and social legislation in effect in Senegal are
applicable to the engineer who shall agree to respect all laws or new
regulations made mandatory as they may appear in the official journal of
Senegal.
No compensation can be paid for limitations and difficulties arising
from decisions by administrative authorities concerning employment of labor
in Senegal.
Article 14: INSURANCE
The engineer shall submit evidence that he has taken out an insurance
policy with a company approved by the Agency. The policy must cover the
risks and professional liabilities relating to performance of his services.
APPROVED                                 Dakar,              , 1989
ENGINEER                            DIRECTOR OF THE AGENCY



-62 -                             Annex 2
Page 32
Section VI
Accounting System for Contracts, Disbursements
VI-1 Commitments:
The contract constitutes the basic document for accounting of
ommitments and disbursements. Following the signing of the contract, the
financial office establishes a contract card and records a com itment equal
to the amount of that contract.  The date and amount of each payment is
recorded as they are made on the contract card; at any time the undisbursed
portion of the amount committed is the difference between the initial
commitment and the sum of the payments already made.
VI-2 Submission of invoices
Unless otherwise provided in the contract, invoices shall be submitted
on a monthly basis by the company. Each submission shall be mandatorily
supported by a works statement certified by the engineer.   The invoice
specifies the amount, not including taxes, of the works done, the amount of
any withholding for the mobilization advance, the amount of applicable taxes,
and the total to be paid, and shall reference where they appear in the
supoorting works statements. The invoices shall be dated and signed by the
person authorized to represent the company.
VI-3 Control of invoices
The technlcal office shall verify the invoice and annexed works
statements, certify the service performed, and then transmit the file to the
f nancial office for payment.  The financial office audits the accounting of
the invoice with the amount remaining from the commitment and not yet
disbursed, which is shown on the contract card, and orders the payment.
Except in the event of duly proven force maleure, the total period of time
between receipt of the invoice in the technical office and the issuance of
the check to the company (or transmittal of the payment order to the bank)
must not exceed ten working days. Compliance with this rule constitutes one
of the evaluation factors for performance of the Agency staff concerned, as
well as the performance of the Agency itself.
VI-4 Orderint disbursements
Ordering a payment includes the following operations:
-  Preparation of the checks or payment orders for the net amount to be
paid to the company exclusive of taxes;
-  Entry of the payment on the contract card; and
-  Accounting for taxes to be paid to the treasury on the account of
the company.



- 63 -                            Annex 2
Page 33
VI-5 SiRnint checks and Payment orders
The checks and payment orders are signed by the Financial Director and
countersigned by the Director of the Agency.  Either one may delegate in
writing the authority to sign in their absence or in the event they are
indisposed. A photocopy of the signed check or payment order, and, if the
signature authority has been delegated, a reference to the delegation, shall
be attached to the invoice before the invoice is filed with the supporting
accounting documents maintained by the Agency for the uses of the accounts
auditor.
VI-6 Termination of the contract
The termination of the contract shall not be completed until after final
acceptance of the works and release of any bond. At the time of close-out,
the remainder of the undisbursed commitment is voided.



- 64 -                            Annex 2
Page 34
Section VII
Manaaement of Azency's funds
VII-1 Principle of revolving fund
Quick payment to suppliers is one of the reasons for the creation of the
Agency. To permit the Agency to carry out the account payment transactions
without delay, the Agency has an account in a commercial bank of Senegal,
which operates on the joint s.lgnature of the Director of the Agency and the
Financial Director. This account is supplied with funds at the outset by an
advance payment that the Government requests from the donor(s) financing the
Public Works and Employment Project. This advance payment is calculated in
such manner as to cover approximately three months of Agency disbursements,
of which one month serves as a security reserve. As soon as the cumulative
amount of disbursements effected reaches or surpasses one third of the amount
of the initial advance payment (on average, for all months), the Agency shall
present to the donor(s), through the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, a
request for replenishment of the amount disbursed, supported by a detailed
statement of the disbursements effected, certified by the Director of the
Agency (certified expenditure statement).   The supporting documents are
retained by the Agency and permanently kept at the disposal of the account
auditors, the representatives of the donors and the Ministry of the Economy
and Finance. When the cumulative amount of the initial advance payment and
replenishments already effected reaches or surpasses 50 percent of the total
amount of the credits entered in the credit agreements for the categories of
expenditures in which the disbursement is provided following the revolving
fund procedure, withholdings are made on the requests for replenishment up
to a percentage of the request equal to the ratio of the non-reimbursed
portion of the advance over the undisbursed portion of the credits.
VII-2 Certified expenditure statements
The certified expenditure statements include a detailed listing of basic
disbursements made, and for each one there is a specific reference to the
supporting documentation (including the classification number) retained by
the Agency.  The certified expenditure statements are prepared under the
responsibility of the Financial Director.  They must be certified by the
Agency Director.
VII-3 Classification of supportina documentation
The supporting documentation for each disbursement (invo'ce and attached
works statement, copy of the signed check or payment order, and copy of the
signature delegations, if any) are classified following a chronological
numbering system. A computerized file of supporting documents is constantly
updated.   It should allow selection of the documents according to the
following criteria (crossed or not):



- 65 -                            Annex 2
Page 35
- Works category (cf. Section III-1);
- Name of project;
- Name cf company;
- Date or time period; and
- Number of the replenishment request.
VII-4 Replenishment procedures
VII-4-1. Replenishment requests are routed through the Finance Ministry
to the donor(s) over the signature of the Director of the Agency, acting
under a delegation from the Minister of Finance. The requests addressed to
IDA shall be filed with the Resident Representative of the World Bank in
Dakar.   The date of transmittal is recorded by the Agency with the
identification number of the request and the date of the request.   The
Minister of Finance, Public Debt and Investment Department (DDI) receives a
copy of each disbursement request.
VII-4-2. For each replenishment request, the Resident Representative
of the World Bank shall notify the Agency of the date of transmittal to
headquarters. After a period of 15 working days, if the replenishment has
not been made, the Agency shall send a telex as a second request to the
donors especially in order to obtain information on the payment data. Upon
receipt of this information, the Agency shall alert the bank to which the
funds are addressed so that it may proceed, if necessary, to make the
necessary inquiries.
VII-4-3 (Possible provisions for other donors)
VII-4-4 It is the Agency's responsibility to set out specifically, in
consultation with the bank at which its account will be opened, the
specifications of the practical modalities for maintaining the account and
to assure compliance with the specifications.



- 66 -                            Annex 2
Page 36
Section VIII
Activity Reports
VIII-1 Reporting periods
Before the end of the second complete week of each uneven month, the
Agency shall file with the Government an activity report for the period of
the prior two months.   This report is prepared following a model format
attached to this section. Using a standardized samnary format, it provides
information ont
(a) execution of the procedure for selection of projects;
(b) awarding of works contracts;
(c) signing of contracts and disbursements by works categories;
(d) personnel employed by the companies;
(e) execution of contracts for services;
(f) technical assistance services rendered to the companies; and
(g) performance level in execution of the works.
Each activity report shall be signed by the Director of the Agency, who
is responsible for the accuracy of the information contained in the report.
VIII-2 Information to be furnished by the technical office
The tables comprising section 5 of the activity report under items (a),
(d), (f) and (g) shall be prepared under the responsibility of the Technical
Director, who approves them before they are incorporated into the report.
These tables rely particularly on the data shown on the daily work cards, the
weekly work summaries, and the monthly work progress cards. All of these
various documents are the responsibility of the engineer as well as the
employee of the technical office responsible for the project in question.
The Technical Director shall transmit to the Agency Director succinct
remarks on each table, on the basis of which the section of the activity
report provided for "Director's remarks and observations' is prepared.
VIII-3 Information to be furnished by the financial office
The tables comprising section 5 of the activity report that are not
prepared under the responsibility of the Technical Director are under the
responsibility of the Financial Director (items (b), (c) and (e)).  The
Financial Director shall approve them before they are incorporated into the
activity report.



- 67 -                            Annex 2
Page 37
Section 3 of the activity report, which depicts the status of the
Agency's revolving fund, is prepared under the responsibility of the
Financial Director.
The Financial Director contributes to the "Director's remarks and
observations" with regard to the Agency's performance in the area of
administration.
VIII-4  Exceptional information
It is the responsibility of the Agency Director to personally inspect
the quality of the evaluation reports and to take initiatives necessary for
the Government's to be aware of any information that clarifies, for the
Government, the cost-effectiveness of the apparatus implemented, with
relation to the objectives set forth in section 1.
Even though the activity report is standardized, it should be adjusted,
if changes are of such nature as to render a better accounting of the
Agency's actual performance. The standard format for the report, which is
attached to this section, should be considered to be a description of the
minimum amount of information to be furnished and not as an inviolable
framework.
VIII-5 Time schedule for preparation and submission of each report
The preparation of activity reports is a constant function: the various
basic data produced, whether by the accounting system or by the technical
monitoring of the works, constitute a data base, the computerized processing
of which allows editing of the tables in section 5 of the activity report at
any time for any period of time passed. Control and gatheiing of basic data
is organized on a daily basis and should be capable of being carried out
without de:ay as the information is transmitted by the engineers and the
companies.
Within three working days following termination of a two-month period
for which the activity report is due, the computer office ensures that no lag
is occurring in the capture of data relating to the period in question and
proceeds to print the tables in section 5 of the report, which it transmits,
depending on the circumstances, to the Technical Director or to the Financial
Director for review and approval.
Before the end of the first full week of the month following the period
covered by the report, the secretariat of the Agency Director receives the
approved documents that have been prepared by the technical office and the
financial office. The complete report, ready to be signed, should be on the
Director's desk ten working days before the date for submission of the report
to the Government.



- 68 -                           Annex 2
Page 38
Annex to Section VIII
Format for Activity Reports
ACTIVITY REPORT
OF THE EXECUTING AGENCY
1. Period covered by the reports
2. Date of most recent report:
3. Status of Agency's account as of the date of the report:
-  Account balance:                  ; balenee date:                 ;
-  Amount of undisbursed authorizations:
-  Amount of replenishment requests not yet received:
- List of replenishment requests not yet received:
Request No.         Amount         Date of Transmittal     Donor
4. Director's Remarks and Observations:
Evaluation of results obtained in relation to general project goals;
Agency performance;
Performance of companies;
Relations with beneficiaries;
Program of assistance to companies and training;
Special problems.
5. Tables:



Table tto. I
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORR AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECI
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Perlod from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 19',9
PROJECTS ACCEPTED DURING THE PERIOD
Project   Beneficiary             Name         Description          Works    Date     Date of      Est. Amt.
No.                  Location                                       Category Accepted TOR
convention
Total



Table No. 2
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
CONTRACT AWARDED DURING THE PERIOD
Contract  Project    Works        Project      Winning   Bid        Co.4mittee Contract Projected Est. Amt.  Amount
No.       No.        Category    Name          Firm       Date      Date       Date     Duration  (bid)       of Contract
of Work              Awarded
Totaux



- 71 -
Table No. 3
SENEGAL
PBILIC WORKS ANkD EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
SUMMARY OF CONTRACTS AND DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORIES OF WORKS
Works          Contracts signed        Disbursements
Category      Period      Cumul.      Period       Cumul.
21  .  TOMUt     =                           I
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
I :             To~~~~~taux



- 72 -
Table Po. 4                        SEMEGL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACSTIVTT REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
PERSONNEL EMPLOYED BY FIRMS DURING PERIOD
Man Days
Unskilled or            Management
Semi-skilled
Project      Name
No.                              Period     Cumul.     Period    Cumul.
Totaux



- 73 -
Table No. 5
SENEGAfi
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
CONTRkCTS FOR PERFORI14ANCE OF SERVICES
Contract    Project  Provider of    Date of    Contract    Cumulative
No.         No.       Services        Contract   amount       Disbursements
I Jan 04
Totaux



- 74 -
Table No. 6
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYNENT PROJECT
ACTIVITY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 19R9
to August 31, 1989
STATEMENT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING SERVICES TO FIRMS
Company   Classification                                Man Days
Category    Nature of  Service          Period       Cumulative
Services   Provider                      as of I Jan 04
Totaux



Table No. 7
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EKPLOY7E   PROJECT
ACTMTY REPORT OF
Sept. 15, 1989
Period from July 1, 1989
to August 31, 1989
PERFORMAICE OF WORKS OVER COURSE OF THE PERIOD
Contract    Project   Works-   Project           Winning    Unit       Unit      Within    Quality    %
ID No.      ID No.    Category Name              Firm       Used      Cost       Time      of         Execution
Given     Frame     Service   Con:ract
__..__                            .                          . .



- 76 -                             Annex 2
Page 39
Section IX
Oversight of the Agency
IX-1 Review of accounts and audit of administration
The Agency's accounts are examined twice yearly by the auditors in
accordance with tOe principles appearing in the TGuidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank,' dated
March 1982.
The account auditors pay very careful attention, as stated in their
terms of reference, to verification of the existence, regularity and
appropriate classification of the supporting documentation of expenditures
appearing in the certified expenditure statements furnished in support of
requests for replenishment of the Agency's account.
The Agency is also subject to a semi-annual audit of management.
Following principles similar to those used for the review of accounts, the
evaluators verify and certify the proper application at all levels, in both
spirit and letter, of the guidelines appearing in *he Procedures Mantual and
compliance with all the contractual obligations to which the Agency is
subject.
Special attention is paid to verification and quality of monitoring of
work site operations and the data being provided from the work site.
IX-2 Special obligations of various departments at the time of review of
accounts and performance of administrative audits
The account auditors and the evaluators responsible for carrying out the
audits of management are accredited by the Director at the various offices
that are concerned with the Agency at the time of their first visit to the
offices.  As a general rule, the financial office is the principal point of
contact for the account auditors, whe.-eas the technical office is the
principal point of contact for the evaluators responsible for management
audits.
An office shall be made available to the auditors and evaluators
responsible for administrative audits and an employee of the office that is
most concerned, depending on the circumstances, shall be assigned to respond
to the requests for documents and to materially facilitate the evaluators'
task.
IX-3 Conduct of employees in relation to auditors and evaluators responsible
for management review
Insofar as possible, .he schedule of operations by the outside
evaluators in charge of monitoring and oversight of the Agency shall be
organized in such manner as to limit the disturbance that these actions will
give rise to in the execution of the current functions of the staff.
However, the staff should consider itself to be constantly available for this



- 77 -                             Annex 2
Page 40
,urpose during the audits and review and should give any resulting requests
priority attention over and above their other duties.
The auditors and evaluators responsible for management reviews who have
been duly accredited by the Director have access to all the documents held
by the Agency without exception, and the staff is obligated to comply as soon
as possible with any request for them to furnish documents and to respond
accurately to any question asked of them.



- 78 -                             Annex 2
Page 41
Section X
Personnel Management
The Executing Agency of the Public Works and Employment Project will be
administered in accordance with the principles of management by objective:
X-1  Principles of .manaRement by oblective
Management by objective is a systematic effort to enrich tasks
vertically  to permit managers  and  e-}loyees,  within their  sphere  of
responsibility, to contribute tc attainment of their org6nization's
objectives.
This is a process by which the supervisor and subordinate at all
administrative levels come together and set the goals to be attained by the
subordinate over a certain period of time. These goals are directly entered
into the goals of the organization. A progress review is carried out on a
pre-established date to evaluate the actual achievements in relation to the
expected outcomes.
X-2 Procedure for issuance of a yearly statement of oblectives
Each year at the beginning of the annual cycle, each manager or
supervisory employee receives his Statement of Annual Objectives; this yearly
cycle runs from July 1 to June 30 of the following year.
A well-managed enterprise should:
-  inform its workers what is expected of them;
-  help them perform their work efficiently;
-  identify  those workers  who  are  capable  of  assuming  greater
responsibilities;
-  remunerate them in accordance with their contribution; and
-  sanction their failures.
For their part, the workers should know:
-  how their work is evaluated; and
-  what they can expect as a result of their work.
On the basis of their efforts, it is necessary to implement a program
that:
-  allows ecch employee to be informed, at least once a yenr, of his
supervisor's explanation of the results of his work;



-79 -                              Annex 2
Page 42
- encourages managers to counsel their employees on their individual
development (improvement of performance, possible promotion); and
-  serves as the basis for application of the policy of increasing
salaries on the basis of merit.
Process:
1.   At the beginning of the annual cycle, the Director General of the Agency
meets with the entire staff and sets out the overall mission and objectives
of the Agency for the year to come and for the entire duration of the
project.
The overall objectives thus involve a multi-year projection and are
multidimensional in nature.
2.   Moreover, he establishes an individualized statement of objectives for
the staff members that report directly to him.
3.   Each manager arranges a meeting of all his employees and discusses with
them the objectives of his unit; this is a presentation and explanation of
the objectives of the office or department, which will be the basis for
individual objectives.
He then personally interviews each employee to discuss the organization
of his work, his potential problems and unavoidable obstacles, to come to an
agreement on his own individual objectives and to set forth the criteria for
eventual evaluation of his performance. All of this is recorded, in summary
fashion, in a document that serves as the Annual Statement of Objectives.
X-3 Evaluation procedure
X-3-1 Self-evaluation
The self-discipline contemplated in the method of management by
objective is a significant source of motivation. Self-dirtipline relies, in
fact, on the hypothesis that the workers are responsible  nd that they want
to contribute to attaining objectives; it is up to them to nanage themselves
with regard to the means and measures to be taken to attain their objectives.
By referring to the statement of objectives, each employee can verify
whether he is on schedule or not, and on this basis make the necessary
decisions. In this way, without awaiting the end of the annual cycle, he is
able to evaluate himself and seek, if necessary, the opinion of his
supervisor. For this purpose, he will make use of the card for analysis of
progress toward objectives.
X-3-2 Evaluation at the erd of the annual cycle
Ac the end of the annual cycle, each worker is interviewed by his
supervisor; the supervisor presents his evaluation of the employee's
performance with relation to the objectives, but at the level of group



- 80 -                            Annex 2
Page 43
evaluation, he will take into account other factors that may have a positive
or negative bearing on proper operation of the office.
The employee acknowledges his evaluation and can make his own comments
on it.
His signature shows that he has read his performance evaluation but it
does not mean that he has approved of the rating. Performance evaluations
(cf. performance evaluation card) are as follow:s
1. Outstanding
2. Very Good
3. Good
4. Needs Improvement
5. Unsatisfactory
All evaluations are approved by the Director General of the Agency.
X-4 Salary increases and sanctions
X-4-lSalary increases
The general rule in the area of salary increases is that they are
awarded on the basis of merit as a direct function of the performance
evaluation given at the end of the annual cycle. Only "outstanding' and
'very good" performers can expect a salary increase within the limitations
of approved funding levels.  To the contrary, general increases are not
allowed, except in the event of a provision of law issued by the government.
X-4-2Bonuses for outstandint performers
In addition, a bonus for outstanding performance is paid as follows
after the end of each annual cycle on June 30:
Outstanding Performerst  125 percent of monthly salary (not counting
allowances.
Very Good Performerst    105 percent of monthly salary (not counting
allowances.
Other performers are not eligible for bonuses.
X-4-2Sanctions
An overall evaluation of "Unsatisfactory' maans that the employee will
be very closely supervised and a file will be prepared in anticipation of
separation of the employee Sf significant and quick improvements are not
seen.



- 81 -                            Annex 2
Page 44
Generally, sanctions for various infractions aro as fcllows:
-  Oral remarks;
-  Warning;
-  Reprimand;
-  Suspension from duty; and
-  Dismissal.
Sanctions. are taken by the employee's supervisor; according to the
seriousness of the infraction committed, the measure may be taken directly
by the Director General of the Agency.
When the sanction .s taken by the supervisor, other than in the case of
oral remarks, the Director General of the Agency should be informed in
advance.



- 82 -                            Annex 2
Page 45
AGETIP
SELF-EVALUATION: ANALYSIS OF PROGRESS TOWARD OBJECTIVES
On this sheet, the employee states the stage of progress toward individual
objectives, and provides any comaents on positive or negative factors that
have affected whether the expected goals weri achieved, whatever the cause.
f |        Comments
Current stage of progress toward goals
Explanation     Corrected or
of delays       new goals



- 83 -                            AMx 2
Page 46
EXECUTING AGENCY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
Personnel: Perfocuance Evaluation Card
Full name:
Staff No.:
Position:                         Division:
OBJECTIVES for 19_
(by area of activity)         Performance Rating    Comments
Signature 
Employee                          Supervisor
Dates



- 84 -                            Annex 2
Page 47
EXECUTING AGENCY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND EMELOYMENT PROJECT (AGETIP)
Summary of Overall Performance:
1. Outstanding
2. Very Good
3. Good
4. Needs Improvement
5. Unsatisfactory
Signature of Supervisor          Name of Supervisor           Date
Employee's remarks on performance rating:
Signet.ure                  Date
Approval by Director General:
Signature                          Date



SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Annex 3
Cost Tables
I
I



- 85 -
ANNEX3
Tabb1i-
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECr
Project Cost Summary
Local    Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign      Total
.,s         CPA      cmd         mn          $Q         mnl
- -- - millions ----------
Subproject Works                 7,719      1,153     8,873      24,428       3,650     28,078
Local Training                    400          0        400       1,266          0       1,266
Monitoring
(Local Consultants)               80          0         80        253           0        253
Monitoring
(Inernational Consultants)        20         80        100         63         253        316
Total Project Monitoring          100         80        180        316         253        570
Wage Bill                         217          0        217        687           0        687
Rent and Utilities                 78          0         78        V.8           0        248
Services                           35          0         a3         109          0        109
Supplies                            6          0          6          19          0         19
Fuel                                0         12         12          0          38         38
Auto Insurance and
Maintenance                        8          0          8         24           0         24
Staff Taining                       4          4          8          12         12         24
Travel                              2          8         10          6          25         32
Miscellaneous                      28          0         28         89           0         89
Total Implementing
Ag. Operation                    377         24        401       1,194         75       1,270
Furn. and Offlce Reshaping          10         6         16         31          20         50
Office Equipment                    0          8          8          1          24         25
Cars                                0         15         15          0          47         47
Computers and Software              0         15         15          0          47         47
MIS implementation                  10         0         10         32           0         32
PPF                                 0        446        446          0        1,412      1,412
Total PPF & ImpL
Ag. Equipment                     20       490        510          63       1,551      1,614
Total Base Cost                  8,617      1,747     10,364     27,268       5,529     32,798
Price Contingencies                66         92        159        210         293        503
Total                            8,683      1,840     10,523     27,478       5,822     33,300



- 86-
ANNEX 3
Table 2
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Execution of Project Components by Year
CPA Million                               US$00
1990 1921    1IO1ThL                   1990    1991      1922   IOTAL
Subproject Works             3,549    4,436      887    8,873       11,231   14,039    2,808   28,078
Local Training                 160      200       40      400         506      633      126    1,266
Monitoring
(Lcal Consultants)            24       40        16      80           76      127       51      253
Monitoring
(International Consultants)    30       50      20       100          95      158       63      316
Total Project Monitoring        54       90       36      180         171      285      114      570
Wage Bill                      109       87       22      217         344      275       69      687
Rent and Utilities              39       31        8       78         124       99       25      248
Services                        17       14        3       35          55       44       11      109
Supplies                         3        2        1        6           9        8        2       19
Fuel                             6        5        1       12          19       15        4       38
Auto Insu    and
Maintenance                     4        3        1        8          12        9        2       24
Staff Training                   4        3        1        8          12        9        2       24
Travel                           5        4        1       10          16       13        3       32
Miscellaneous                   14       11        3       28          45       36        9       89
Total Implementing
Ag. Operation                201       160      40      401          635      508      127    1,270
Fum and Office Reshaping        16        0        0       16          50        0        0       50
Office Equipment                 8        0        0        8          25        0        0       25
Cars                            15        0        0       15          47        0        0       47
Computers and Software          15        0        0       15          47        0        0       47
MS imnplementation              10        0        0       10          32        0        0       32
PPF                            446        0        0     446         1,412       0        0    1,412
Total PPF & Impl.
Ag. Equipment                510        0        0      510        1,614       0        0    1,614
Toal Base Cost               4,474    4,887    1,003   10,364       14,157   15,465    3,1;3   32,798
(Excluding Price Contingencies)



- 87 -
.AN!NEX3
Table 3
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMLOYMENT PROJECT
Project Financing
(US$0*0)
JA          AI Qr-AL
Subproject Works                      14.922         5,000         8,156        28,078
Local Training                         1,266             0             0         1,266
Monitoring
(Local Consultants)                     253             0             0           253
Monitoring
(Intemnatonal Consultants)              316             0             0           316
Total PFroject Monitoring                570             0             0           570
Wage Bill                                687             0             0           687
Rent and Utilites                        248             0             0           248
Seie                                     109             0             0           109
Supplies                                  19             0             0            19
Fuel                                      38             0             0            38
Auto Insrance and
Maintenance                              24             0             0            24
Staff Training                            24             0             0           24
Travel                                    32             0             0            32
Miscellaneous                             89            0              0           89
Total Implementing
Ag. Operation                         1,270            0              0         1,270
Fun. and Office Reshaping                 50            0              0           50
Office Equipment                         25              0             0           25
Cars                                     47             0              0           47
Computers and Software                   47             0              0           47
MIS implementation                        32            0              0           32
PPF                                    1,412             0             0         1,412
Total PPF & Impl.
Ag, Equipment                        1,614             0             0         1,614
Total Base Cost                       19,641         5,000         8,156        32,798
Price Contingencies                      359             0           144           503
Total                                 20,000         5,000         8,300        33300



SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Annex 4
i                       Project Execution Schedule
I



-88 -
St1EGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Project Execution Schedule
FY 90     FY 91     FY 92
Subproject Works                                  **** ********** *****
Local Training                                    **** ********** *****
Monitoring (Local Consultants)                    *    **********  *****
Monitoring (International Cons.)                  *               t
Wage Bill                                         **** **********  *****
Rent and Utilities                                **** *********  *****
Services                                          ****   *******. *****
Supplies                                          **** ********** *****
Fuel                                              **** ********** *****
Auto Insurance and Maintenance                    **** ********** *****
Staff Training                                    **** ********** *****
Travel                                            **** ********* *****
Miscellaneous                                     **** ********* *****
Furn. and Office Reshaping                        **** *****
Office Equipment                                  **** *****
Cars                                              *s** *****
Computers and Software                            **** *****
MIS Implementation                                **** *****
PPF                                               **** *****
Project Execution Responsibilities
All components will be executed by contractors
under the authority of the Project Implementing Agency



SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECI
Annex 5
Schedule of Disbursements
and
Allocation of the IDA Credits



- 89 -
ANNEX S
Table 1
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
US$ million
Semester Ending                          Cumlative
FY 90  June                        4.4          4.4          22
FY91  December                     4.1          8.5          43
June                        4.5        13.0          65
FY 92  December                    5.0         18.0          90
June                       2.0        20.0          100



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Allocatior of the IDA Credit
IQIL              10A        TIQrAL            ID
CFA            CFA            $000           $000
m~tnilions-----
SubprojectWorks                           8,873         4,715          28,078        14,922
Local Training                             400            400           1,266         1,266
Monitoring
(Local Consultants)                        80             80            253            253
Mmztoring
(Inernational Consultts)                  100            100            316            316
Total Project Monitoring                   180            180            570            570
Wage Bil                                   217            217            687            687
Rent and Utilities                          78             78            248            248
Services                                    35             35            109            109
Supplies                                     6              6             19             19
Fuel                                        12             12             38             38
Auto Inance and
Maintenance                                 8              8             24             24
Staff Training                               8              8             24             24
Tnrvel                                      10             10             32             32
Miscellaneous                               28             28             89             89
Total Inplementing
Ag. Opaaos                                401            401           1,270         1,270
IFun.andOfflceReshaping                     16             16             50             S0
Office Equipment                             8              8             25             25
Cas                                         15             15             47             47
Comuts and Software                         15             15             4?             47
MIS implementaton                           10             10             32             32
PPF                                        446            446           1,412         1,412
Total PPF & Impl.
Ag. Equipment                            510            510           1,614          1,614
Total Base Cost                          10,364         6,2)7          32,798        19,641
Price Contingencies                        159            113            503            359
Total                                    10,523          6,320         33,300        20,000



SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Annex 6
Economic Analysis



- 91 -
AnnxL6
Page 1
SENEGAL
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Evaluation of Typical Subprpjects
1.    The Project Implementing Agency 'the Agency) is expected to receive, from local
governments, requests for subproject financing. These subprojects are likely to include, but not be
limited to, such things as:
(a)   garbage collection;
(b)   removal of sand from public facilities;
(c)   cleaning of urban drainage network;
(d)   pavement rehabilitation and/or maintenance of minor streets; and
(e)   rehabilitation of public buildings.
2.    The Agency will thoroughly evaluate these requests before deciding whether to extend
financing or not. Two main decision ctritia are to be used:
(a)   Labot Intensity. Preference will be given to subprojects with higher labor intensity,
i.e.. those requiring the lowest possible expenditure per man-day of employment.
In other words, subproject design must favor methods and "technologies"
generating the largest amount of employment per unit of expenditure. The ratio of
directly paid wages to total expenditures is a useful proxy.
(b)   Justification. Subprojects should be justifiable, i.e., they should meet a real need
of the local community. In other words, the benefits resulting from it should be
greater than the costs associated with it. As far as possible, subproject costs and
benefits should be quantified and compared.
3.    Five brief evaluations of typical subprojects are hereinafter provided as an illustration of
how the above-mentioned criteria may be applied to different subproject types. These analyses
provide a framework that could guide the Agency's decision-making process, but should under no
circumstance replace the Agency's own analyses. The Agency should satisfy itself that each
individual subproject it decides to linance meets at least the above-mentioned criteria. The Agency
will be held accountable for its own decisions concerning subproject financing.
4.    These evaluations also constitute a framework that may be used by the Agency for ex-post
evaluation, once subproject implementation is completed.



- 92 -
Anne=
Page 2
SUBPROJECT TYPE No. 1
Garbage Collection
Background
1.    The responsibility for garbage collection in Senegal rests with the Societe Industrielle
d'Amenagement Urbain du Senegal (SIAS), a parastatal enterprise. Despite external assistance,
SIAS' effort is largely limited to Greater Dak;  (i.e., the Dakar-Pikine-Rufisque conurbation) arid,
even here, not all areas are covered. It is estimated that SIAS collects about 200,000-300,000 tons
of garbage every year in Greater Dukar, which is equivalent to 58-88% of all garbage produced.
The average operating (financial) cost of garbage collection bv SIAS is CFAF 6.0 per kg,
excluding capital costs. The average total (economic) cost of garbage collection by SIAS is
CFAF 6.75 per kg, including capital cost.
2.    The fact that SIAS does not collect the full amount of garbage produced in Greater Dakar is
partly explained by the lack of paved streets in many neighborhoods, which make it difficult or
impossible for SIAS' garbage trucks to operate regularly. In these neighborhoods, iphabitants take
their refuse to illegal and unsanitary dumps. Sporadically, in response to demands by local
representatives, SIAS collects garbage from these illegal dumps and, in order to do it, requests the
Communaute Urbaine de Dakar (CUD) to "build" a makeshift road using gravats (debris).
3.    Typical space utilization in relevant low-income neighborhoods is assumed to be as
f.lows. Out of each hectare of land (10,000 m2), 3,000 m2 are used for street space and
7,OLO m2 for houses. Each house requires 350 m2 and provides shelter for 6.7 people.
Thertfore, each hectare of land is inhabited by 133 people, who produce an average of 0.55 kg of
garbage per day, i.e., 27,000 kgs of garbage per year.
Description
4.    Under the proposed subproject. garbage not currently collected regularly by SIAS will be
collected and carried away. Two major modes of operation are under consideration:
(a)   Semi-mechanized. Under this alternative, households will place garbage in suitable
receptacles and take them to local collection points, whe.e garbage will be collected
by crews disposing of agricultural tractor-trailers and simple hand tools. Crews
will transport garbage to one of SIAS's intermediate dumps (such as Malika)
typically within 5 km of the neighborhood in question.
(b)   Non-mechanized. Under this alternative, which would be required if the local
population does not dispose of receptacles, crews disposing of animal-drawn carts
and simple hand tools will collect trash as they move along streets, announcing their
presence with some noise-producing device to enable local residents to bring their
garbage to the moving crews. Crews will carry garbage to local consolidation
points accessible to SIAS' trucks and equipped with simple unloading and loading
facilities.



- 9- -
Annex6
Page 3
5.    . )nsider a 20,000-inhabitant low-income neighborhood, extending over 150 hectares,
producing 4,000 tons of garbage per year. Relevant capital and operating costs will depend on the
technological altmrative chosen:
(a)   Semi-mechanize'1 It is -stimated that the service could be secured by one tractor
pulling three trailers (carrying capacity 5 m3 each), doing three trips per day and
operating 250 days per year. Given the time required for trailer unloading, twice
the number of trailers would be required for each tractor. The operating cost of the
proposed equipment (1 tractor and 6 trailers) is estimated at CFAF 8.8 million per
year. A crew of five men would be required, with total direct wages of CFAF 2
million, and total labor expenditures of CFAF 5 million (including all
"majoradons"). Total annual financial cost is CFAF 8.8 + 5 = 13.8 million, i.e.,
CFAF 3,450 per ton of garbage collected. Total ar.nual economic cost is CFAF 8.8
+ 1.25 = 10.0 miLlion, i.e., CFAF 2,500 per ton. It is further assumed that SIAS'
economic cost of transporting garbage fiom intermediate dumps to final dumps is
CFAF 500 per ton. Therefore, the total annual cost of garbage collecdon and
transport to fmal dump is CFAP 3,000 per ton (annual economic cost for 4,000
tons is CFAF 12 million).
(b)   Non-mechanized. It is estimated i.at three animal-drawn carts are sufficient, each
with a carrying capacity of 2 m3, and carrying an effective load of 550 kg per trip,
working 300 days per year, and doing eight trips per day. The cost of each
animal-drawn cart, including the cart and the animal but not the driver, is estimated
at CFAF 3,300 per day (economic cost). Therefore, the annual cost of the three
animal-drawn carts would be about CFAF 3.000,000. A crew of nine men plus
one driver = 10 men would be required which, at minimum wages would receive
CFAF 400,000 annually each; labor expenditures would amoount to CFAF 1 million
per man, with a total of CFAF 10 million for the entire crew. TIle cost of building
the required facilities at the point of consolidation is esimated at CFAF 4 million;
since these facilities can be used for an area twice the size of that under
consideradon, and since they would have to be rebuilt every two years, it is
esdmated that the annual cost of the facility is CFAF 1 million. Thus, this
alternadve would cost CFAF 3 + 10+ 1 = 14 million per year, i.e. an average of
CFAF 3,500 per ton of garbage. The annual economic cost would be CFAF 3 +
2.5 + 1 = 6.5 miiion per year, i.e., an average of CFAF 1,625 per ton of garbage.
It is further assumed that SIAS' economic cost of transporting garbage from the
consolidation point to the final dump is about CFAF 1,000 per ton (see subpara. (a)
above). Therefor, the total cost of garbage collecdon and transport to final dump
is CFAF 2,625 per ton (annual economic cost for 4,000 tons is CFAF 10.5
million).
Benefits
6.    The major benefits stemming from the proposed subproject are reduced health hazards and
polludon levels. This would contribute to overall improved living conditions which are,
nevertheless, extremely difficult to quandfy. However, certain indicators are pertinent, as
indicated below:



- 94 -
A=a 
Page 4
(a)   lmed labrdity. It is conservatively estimated that the area served
includes at least 5,00(j working-age adults (25% of population). An increase in
productivity of only 1% attibuted to improved health conditions would result in an
additional annual economic output of CFAF 13.5 million annually. Therefore,
under either alternative, annual economic benefits would be greater than annual
economic costs.
(b) Avoided higher cost of garbage removal. As indicated above, the economic cost of
sporadic garbage removal by SIPS is assumed to be equal to SIAS' average
economic cost of garbage coliection, i.e., CFAF 7.5 per kg. For the
neighborhoods in question, the economic cost of removing 4,000 tons annually by
SIAS would be CFAF 30 million, which is greater than the annual economic cost of
either the non-merbanized or the semi-mechanized alternatives.
(c)   Temporary employment creation. Under the semi-mechanized alternative, totl
annual expenditures would be CFAF 13.8 million, including CFAF 2 million of
direct wages for five men (implicit labor/output ratio = 14%). Under the
non-mechanized alternative, total annual expenditure would be CFAF 14 million,
including CFAF 4 million of direct wages for ten men (implicit labor/output ratio=
29%). Clearly, the non-mechanized alterative has a highe: labor intensity.



- 95 -
Annex6
Page 5
SUBPRQJCI TYPE No. 2
Removal of Sand from Public Facilities
1.   During the dry season, wind-blown sand tends to accumulate on public facilities such as
sidewalks, street pavements, edrainage network and open spaces in urban areas. As a result,
pedestrian and vehicular traffic are slowed down. During the rainy season, the horizontal
movement of rain water is impeAied and waterborne sand tends to clog the drainage network.
2.   The total volume of sand that needs to be removed from public facilities in Greater Dakar is
estimated at several hundred thousands of m3, probably some 300,000 m3.
Dription
3.   The proposed subproject aims at collecting 100,000 m3 of sand and carting it away.
Non-mechanized, labor-internsive methods will be used throughout. Large crews will load sand
onto carts, with workers disposing of simple tools. Sand haulage will be performed with
horse-drawn carts. Sand will be dumped in low-lying, ill-drained areas scattered within the
Greater Dakar area.
4.   There are three separate steps:
(a)   Sand loading onto carts is estimated to require labor-related expenditures of CFAF
1,584 per m3. Total labor-related expenditures will be CFAF 158.4 million
(financial), including CFAF 63.4 million of direct wages paid, or CFAF 39.6
milion (economic)
(b)   Sand hauling. It is estimated that a horse-os-wn cart costing CFAF 3,300 per day
(without driver) will make six trips per day (average distance to dumping ground
about 1-2 km), carrying 1 m3 per trip. The average equipment-related cost of sand
haulage is,therefore, CFAF 550 per m3. The total equipment-related cost of
hauling 100,000 m3 of sand is CFAF 55 million. The cost of the driver is
estimated at CFAF 688 per m3 (financial), including CFAF 275 per m? of directly
paid wages, or CFAF 172 per m3 (economnic). Thus, the total labor-related cost of
hauling 100,000 m3 of sand is estimated at CFAF 68.9 million (financial),
including CFAF 27.5 million of directly paid wages, or CFAF 17.2 million
(economic).
(c)   Sand dumping at final destination is estimated to cost CFAF 209 per m3 (financial),
including CFAF 83.6 per m3 of direcdy paid wages, or CFAF 52.3 per m3
(economic). Therefore, total cost of dumping 100,000 m3 of sand wUl be CFAF
20.9 million (financial), including CFAF 8.4 million of wages directly paid, or
CFAF 5.2 million (economic).



- 96 -
Page 6
5.   Therefore, the total cost of removing, hauling and disposing of 100,000 m3 of sand is
estinated at CFAF 303.2 million (financial), including CFAF 99.3 million of directly paid wages,
or CFAF 117 million (economic).
Benefits
6.   The main benefits resulting from the subproject are the elimination of constraints to
pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and the effective functioning of the drainage network. These
benefits, while significant, are extremely difficult to quantify.
7.    Clearing a stretch of street pavement and sidewalk brings heoriginal investment back to
full MdligpiQn. Under the assumption that the width of sidewalk and pavement is 10 meters, and
that the average depth of sand is 15 centimeters, the proposed subproject would clear 66.7 km of
the urban street network. Thus, the implicit economic cost of sand removal is CFAF 1.75 million
per km, which compares very favorably with the construction cost of the street itself, which is in
the range of CFAF 30-50 million per km.
8.   The creation of temporary employment may be measured by the proportion of total
suproject expenditures (CFAF 303.2 million) that is paid out directly as wages (CFAF 99.3
million). The proportion is 33%, which is quite significant.



- 97 -
Annex6
Page 7
SUBPROJECT TYPE No. 3
ClWaing ot Urban Drainage, Netwoi
1.    The drainage network in Greater Dakar consists of (often cement-lined) canals. Many
canas are clogged with rubbish and mud, which prevent free flow of rainwater and sewage. The
total length of clogged canals in Greater D3kar is not accurately known but is likely to be in the tens
or hundreds of kilometers.
Descp n
2.    The proposed subproject aims at cleaning 5,000 meters of canals. Most of the work will be
done with labor-intensive methods, simple tools and horse-drawn carts to haul refuse. Hydraulic
cleaners will be used sparingly, only when needed.
3.   There are four separate steps in connection with canal cleaning:
(a)   Extractior QfLMaterial. It is assumed that a typical (minor) canal is 0.50-meter wide
and 0.50-metkr deep, and is clogged to 80% of capacity, i.e. 1 m3 per meter of
canal. It is further assumed that one worker can extract about 1 m3 of material per
day. Thus, the cleaning of 5,000 meters of minor canals requires 1,000 man-days.
Given that labor-related expenditures per man-year are CFAF 1 rdllion (and involve
230 effective working days), the total labor-related expenditures will be CFAF 4.35
million (financial) or CFAF 1.09 million (economic). Direct wages paid will be
equivalent to CFAF 1.74 million.
(b) Loading of Material onto Carts. The labor-related expenditure of material loading is
estimated at CFAF 1584 per m3. Total labor-related expenditures for 1,000 m3 of
material amount to CFAF 1.58 million (financial) or CFAF 0.40 million
(economic). Direct wages paid will be equivalent to CFAF 0.63 million.
(c)   HIaulage of Material. A horse-drawn cart costs CFAF 3,300 per day, (excluding
driver) and can carry An m3 per day. To haul 1,000 m3 of material requires 250
cart-days at a cost of CFAF 0.83 million. In addition, 250 man-days are required
whose labor-related expenditures are about CFAF 1 million (financial) or CFAF
0.25 million (economic). Direct wages paid will be equivalent to CFAF 0.4
million.
(d)   Earthworks at land fill. A layer of 0.20 m will be removed before the arrival of
material; after material has been laid, site will be re-covered. This operation requires
almost exclusively labor. The labor-related expenditure is estimated at CFAF 1,882
per m3. Total labor-related expenditures for 1,000 m3 of naterial amount to CFAF
1.88 million (financial) or CFAF 0.47 million (economic). Direct wages paid will
be equivalent to CFAF 0.75 million.



- 98 -
Annex 6
Page 8
4.    It is also assumed that, in the process of cleaning 5,000 meters of canals, it will be
necessary to use hydraulic cleaners ("hydrocureurs") about 12 days. Typically, a hydraulic cleaner
costs CFAF 120,000 per day and requires a crew of 4 men. The total equipment related cost is,
therefore, CFAF 1.44 million; the labor-related expenditure is CFAF 0.20 million (financial),
including CFAF 0.08 million in direct wages, or CFAF 0.05 million (economic).
5.    Therefore, to clean 5,000 meters of canals will require labor-related expenditures of CFAF
9.01 million (financial), including CFAF 3.60 million of direcdy paid wages, or CFAF 2.26
million (economic). It will also require equipment-related expenses of CFAF 2.27 mllion.
BenefitRs
6.    The mnin benefits resulting from the project result from the effective operation of the
passive drainage system. This will prevent the overflow of rain or sewage water onto streets and
sidewalks, wien significant positive impact on overall sanitary condidons, vehicle and pedestrian
traffic, and the economic life of street pavement. These benefits, while significant, are extremely
difficult to quantify.
7.    The creation of temporary employment may be measured by the proportion of total
subproject expenditures (CFAF 9.01 + 2.27 = 11.28 million) that is paid out directly as wages
(CFAF 3.60 million). The proporton is 32%, which is quite significant



- 99 -
Page 9
SUBPROJECT TYPE No. 4
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Minor Streets
Backgrond
1.   It is estimated that the Communaute Urbaine de Dakar (CUD) is responsible for
maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of some 350 km of paved streets in Greater Dakar.
Most of these streets are "minor", a tern which herein refers to an average width of 6 meters or
less. The condition of street pavement varies from good (120 km) to medium (150 Km) to bad (80
km). Within the context of the proposed subproject, it is assumed that pavement originally in good
condition but not properly maintained will deteriorate to medium condition in 5 years and to bad
condition in another 10 years.
2.    CUD's present output in connection with street rehabilitation and maintenance falls short of
requirements. It only rehabilitates about 10 km per year and maintains about 50 km per year. As a
result, the urban road network is deteriorating and the total length of streets in either good or
medium condition is decreasing (and is likely to go down to 100-150 km unless the trend is
reversed). With Bank assistance, CUD is currently implementing an urban road maintenance and
rehabilitation program aimed primariiy at major streets in Greater Dakar. Additional efforts
required to rehabilitate and maintain minor streets are the target of the proposed subproject.
3.    The proposed subproject calls for an increased street pavement rehabilitation and
maintenance effort. In addition to continuing its activities at their present level, CUD will contract
out the rehabilitation of 30 km per year and the maintenance of 100 Ikm per year. If this effort is
sustained, it would reduce th.e rehabilitation backlog and lead to a plateau of some 250 km of roads
in good and nedium condition.
4.    Rehabilitadon. Through pavement rehabilitation, a street in medium condition reaches
good condition. To rehabilitate 30 km of pavement per year, two closely coordinated teams are
required, which will be in charge of:
(a)   pothole preparation and base flling. over 5 to 20% of pavement surface, depending
on condition; this is done by teams of workers (15) disposing of relatively simple
hand tools; it is vcry labor intensive; and
(b)   resurfacing of the entire area; typically, this requires a truck for distribution of
materials, asphalt dispensing equipment, a vibrating roller and a few workers (5); it
is not very labor intensive.
5.    Maintenance. Through pavement maintenance, deterioration is prevented, and a street in
good condition is maintained in good condition. To rehabilitate 100 km or pavement per year, a
team of workers (6) and a truck for distribudon of materials are required.



- 100 -
Annex
Page 10
6.     ShabliUatn. The cost of rehabilitating 30 km of pavement (annual target) includes:
(a)   Labor. Salaries paid ' 15+5=20 workers amount to CFAF 8 million, with total
labor-related expe1 ditures of CFAF 20 million. Economic cost of labor is CFAF 5
million.
(b) Materials. Mainly bitumen and aggregates, at an approximate cost of about CFAF
50 million. Economic cost is assumed equal to financial cost.
(c)   Equipment. Including amortization, maintenance, fueL lubricant and tires for a
13-ton truck (annual financial cost CFAF 13.8 million and annual economic cost
CFAF 16 million); an "epandeur pliant" (annual financial cost CFAF 6.3 million
and annual economic cost CFAF 6.0 million); and a vibrating toller (annual
financial cost CFAF 1.4 million and annual economic cost CFAF 1.2 miii.. ,).
Total annualized financial cost of equipment is CFAF 21.5 million, and total
annualized economic cost of equipment is CFAF 23.2 million.
Thus, the total cost of rehabilitating 30 km of pavement (which can be accomplished in one year) is
CFAF 91.5 million (financial) or CFAF 78.2 million (economic). The unit cost of pavement
rehabilitation is CFAF 3.05 million per km (financial) or CFAF 2.61 million per km (economic).
Assuming that the economic life of pavement rehabilitation is only 5 years, the annual unit costf
pavement rehabilitation is CFAF 0.61 million per km-yr (financial) or CFAF 0.52 million per
km-yr (economic).
7.    Maintenance. The cost of maintaining 100 km of street pavement in good condition
includes:
(a)   Labor. Annual salaries paid to 1 0 workers amount to CFAF 4.0 million, with total
labor-related ex,nditures amounting to CFAF 10 million.
(b)   Materials. Mainly bitumen and aggregates, at an approximate cost of about CFAF
40 milion. Economic cost is assumed equal to financial cost.
(c)   Equipment. This includes amortization, maintenance, fuel, lubricant and tires for a
7-tio truck (annualized financial cost is CFAF 10.9 million and annualized
economic cost is CFAF 10.0 million).
Thus, the total cost of providing routine maintenance to 100 km of pavement (which can be
accomplished in one year) is CFAF 60.9 million (financial) or CFAF 54.0 million (economic).
The unit cost of pavement routine maintenance is CFAF 0.61 million per km (financial) or CFAF
054 million per km (economic).
8.   Rehabihitation. Benefits arising from pavement rehabilitation include reduced operating
costs incurred by vehicles using the improved surface, and reduced cost of routine maintenance:
(a)   VOC Savings. Assuming (conservatively) traffic level of 1,000 vehicles per day
(vpd), and a traffic composition of 33% cars, 31% taxis, 29% "cars rapides", 6%



- 101 -
Page 1 1
buses and 1% trucks, the average VOC savings is CFAF 3.37 per bn. Therefore,
total annual VOC savings are CFAF 1.23 million per km (financial) or CFAF
l.lnmillion per km (economic).
(b)   Reduced Routine Maintenance. It is assumed that the improved surface will result
in a reduction in routine maintenance requirements of about CFAF 0.57 million per
km-yr (financial) or CFAF 0.50 million per km-yr (economic).
Thus, total benefits resulting from rehabilitation are CFAF 1.80 million per km-yr (financial) or
CFAF 1.60 million per kmn-yr (economic), which are significandy higher than annualized costs of
rehabilitation (para. 6 above).
9.    Maintenance. Benefits arising from pavement maintenance reflect the avoided cost of
future rehabilitation and the avoided higher cost of routine maintenance during the period before
rehabilitation:
(a)   Avoided Future Rehabilitation. The avoided cost, which would be incurred when
the pavement deteriorates to "medium" condition after 5 years of deferred routine
maintenance is CFAF 3.05 million per km (financial) or CFAF 2.61 million per kn
(economic).
(b)   Avoided Higher Cost of Routine Maintenance, which will increase over gradually
time until the road reaches "medium" condition, when required routine maintenance
is CFAF 0.57 million per km-yr (financial) or CFAF 0.50 million per km-yr
(economic) higher thanfor a road in "good" condition.
Thus, total annual benefits resulting from maintenance amount to CFAF 3.05/5 + 0.5*0.57 = 0.90
million per km-yr (financial) or CFAF 2.61/5 + 0.5*0.50 = 0.77 million per km-yr (economnic),
which are significandy higher than the annual costs of maintenance (para. 7 above).
Other Indicators
10.  A cursory examination of the above analysis indicates that, while both pavement
rehabilitation and maintenance are economically justifiable, maintenance is more labor intensive
than rehabilitation:
(a)  the financial cost of rehabilitating 30 km of street pavement in one year is CFAF
91.5 million, including CFAF 8 million of direct salaries, which amount to a
labor/output ratio of 9%; and
(b)  the financial cost of maintaining 100 km of street pavement in one year is CFAF
81.8 million, including CFAF 10 million of direct salaries, which amounts to a
labor/output ratio of 12%.



- 102 -
Annex 6
Page 12
SUBPROJECr TYPE No. 5
Rehabilitation of Public Buildings
Background
1.    Rehabilitation of public buildings aims at stopping fhe deterioration of structures that have
not been maintained properly. Depending on the extent of deterioration or dilapidation,
rehabilitation may be referred to as "minor'or"major". Minor rehabilitation typically includes:
(a)   facade repiastering and repainting;
(b)   installation of new windows and doors;
(c)   roof repair
(d)   rehabilitation of indoor water, sewage and electricity networks; and
(e)   replastering and repainting indoor surfaces.
In addition, major rehabilitation would also include:
(f)    major changes and/or reconstruction of inner walls, floors and roofs.
2.    The cost of minor rehabilitation is estimated at CFAF 12,000 to 25,000 per m2 of floor
space, while the cost of major rehabilitation is estimated at CFAF 35,000 to 50,000 per m2 of floor
space.
3.    Labor intensity estimated for building rehabilitation in Dakar varies considerably,
depending on the amount of materials employed. It has been estimated that the average  ratioof
direct wages to total cost of works is within the 0.10 to 0.20 range. For specific tasks, the ratio
may be as low as 0.05 (manufacture of bricks, installation of electrical wiring) or as high as 0.40
(manual eardiworks, preparation of surfaces before painting).
DescipQQn
4.    Rufisgue's Hospital (Maternite et Polyclinique), which is the only facility of its type in
Rufisque is estimated to serve a population of about 280,000 inhabitants. It has a good medical
and nursing staff. However, it is in a serious state of disrepair and, in the absence of much needed
rehabilitation, may soon have to cease functioning. The main problems observed during the course
of a visit are:
(a)   floors and/or roofs in several wards have collapsed, leaving them out of service;
(b)   many doors and windows are broken;
(c)   in several places, electrical wiring is not properly attached to walls or ceilings; and
(d)   the hot water system is out of service.
5.    The proposed subproject involves major rehabilitation works at the Rufisque Hospital. It
will include the reconstruction of floors and roofs, partial reconstruction of walls where needed,
installation of new doors and windows, facade replastering and repainting, and rehabilitation of
water and electricity networks. Works are expected to last 6 months over a floor space of about
2,000 m2.



- 103 -
Annex 6
Page 13
6.    Given the type of work to be undertaken under the proposed subproject, the upper end of
the above-mentioned cost range for major rehabilitation will be used. Total cost is, therefore,
estimated at CFAF 100 million. Labor inputs required for this subproject are relatively low: the
ratio of direct wages to total cost of works is assumed to be 0.15.
Benefits
7.    Expected benefits are expected to be very high, but they are extremely difficult to quantify.
However, certain indicators are pertinent:
(a)   Avoided cost of new construction. If the Rufisque Hospital (or any other facility
that meets a clearly identifiable need) is allowed to deteriorate or dilapidate, the cost
of the new facility that would be eventually required tnay be used as a proxy for
benefits resulting from the rehabilitation of the same facility. The cost of a new
facility is estimated at CFAF 90,00() to 180,000 per m2. Therefore, the estimated
cost of rehabilitation is 28% to 56% of the cost of new construction.
(b)   Reduced cost o routine maintenance. Once rehabilitation is completed, routine
maintenance requirements will be much lower. This difference is an additional
benefit associated with rehabilitation.
(c)   Improved health of the population at large resulting from enhanced health service
delivery in the rehabilitated hospital. This is probably the most important benefit
but is difficult to quantify, thouigh, in theory, it could be estimated on the basis of
assumptions regarding increased productivity or labor supply directly attributable to
the rehabilitated hospital.
(d)   Finally, the present building housing the Rufisque Hospital has some architectural
and/or historical value, which calls for its rehabilitation rather than replacement by a
new facility.



M A U R I T A N I A
SENEGAL - 
-*-  bnd ,, g X,,\g, , ,, l \~~~~~~I,,
._ ' /' '']  *Lougo 
~~.29.4O8~~~~~~~.U   t90~~A 
. e' c                 . e                  '           r,
. joa L O              U    G   A
A T LA NI IC     /                                                             r)                                                 )            N  
tFr  A\-*ThOS      DlSOURBELo> 
.. --  A,'                        ---   - - Q-------
,4 r--T-o-i?  K
cpllbly,/ I
0 C F A N                 Xo   F       G    KS                                           
,    ,-    '% Is 19             t                     .:'               .          at   ?    M  A
j trl ,  >   Kxohd s    ~~OKlfflW                                                          Xt 
-                         fS (    K A .O  L AC  K C
1~~~~~~~ n                                                                      TmH oco,aida 
Xj-_t~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  - ----------'o-_----'h  
~~~~j/ ( ~~~~~~~~T A Mri AC  U N DA    r
TE    G                                    \4-A,-- 
~~~~~~1--~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|  7--=  -   l ZINffUI/C   /  K    0   L    D   `-A,
COP"". W..               ZIGUWCHOR                                                                  0io OKOBA
Th                                                       no  AA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARK
--   ~~~~J 
GUINEA-BISS  UGIE 
O   j  t 4    S   16-                 G  U I N E A  - B I S SyAvU   ,4, ,> J'   G  U  I N  E XA 02'   g t



