Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16516
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SENEGAL-AGETIP
PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECTS
(CREDITS 2075-SE AND 2369-SE)
April 23, 1997
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = CFA Francs (CFAF)
Year                          (US$1.00 equals CFAF)
1989                                    319
1990                                    272
1991                                    282
1992                                    265
1993                                    283
1994    (devaluation 01/12)             555
1995                                    499
1996    (first half)                    510
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB           African Development Bank
AFRICATIP   Association Regionale des Agences d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public
(Regional Association of AGETIPs)
AGETIP        Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi
(Public Works for Employment Executing Agency)
AGETIP I      First Project (1989-1992) financed (among others) by Credit 2075
AGETIP II    Second Project (1993-1996) financed (among others) by Credit 2369
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DIRE          Del6gation a l'Insertion, a la Reinsertion et a l'Emploi
(Employment and Labor Reintegration Authority)
EDI           Economic Develoment Institute
ERR           Economic rate of return
GTZ           Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Development Agency for Technical Assistance)
IAD           Internal Audit Department
IDA           International Development Association
ILO           International Labor Office
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(German Reconstruction Credit Agency)
NGO           Nongovernmental Organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
O&M           Operation and maintenance
PAR           Performance Audit Report
PCR           Project Completion Report
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SME           Small and Medium Entrepreneurs
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
WFP           World Food Programme
ZOPP          Zielorientierte Projektplanung (logical framework planning)
Fiscal Year
Government of Senegal: July 1-June 30
Director-General, Operations Evaluation      :              Mr. Robert Picciotto
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Dept.  :             Mr. Roger Slade
Division Chief                               :              Mr. Roger Slade
Task Manager                                                Mr. Robert van der Lugt



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Ratings and Responsibilities ............................................. 3
Preface ..............................................5
1.  Introduction and Background ..............................................7
Origin of AGETIP .............................................7
AGETIP's Approach .............................................                                               8
The Expansion of AGETIP ..............................................9
2.  Project Design and Objectives ........................................1..... 1
Design ............................................. II
Objectives .............................................                                                    12
Components .............................................                                                    12
Types of Subprojects .............................................. 13
3.  Implementation Results .............................................                                               14
Employment .............................................                                                    14
Enterprises and Consultants ............................................. 15
Labor Content ............................................. 16
Economic and Social Usefulness ............................................. 16
Efficiency .............................................                                                    16
Municipal Participation .............................................                                       17
Pilot and Training and Studies Activities (AGETIP II) .............................................          17
4.  Beneficiary Assessment .............................................                                              19
Approach .............................................                                                       19
Beneficiary Views ............................................. 20
Workshop Results .............................................                                              22
5. Ratings .............................................                                                              24
Outcome .............................................                                                       24
Sustainability ............................................. 24
Institutional Development ............................................. 25
Borrower Performance ............................................. 26
IDA  Performance .............................................                                              27
Replicability and Networking .............................................. 27
6.  The Future of AGETIP .............................................                                                29
This report was prepared by Robert van der Lugt, Task Manager, and Thomas Kuby,
GTZ, who field audited the project in June 1996. The Beneficiary Assessment was prepared
independently by Christian Voigt-Moritz, Thomas Kuby, Selle Ndiaye and Moussa Gueye. The
original French version of the assessment and an abbreviated English version, prepared by
Thomas Kuby and Christian Voigt-Moritz, are available separately. Peer reviewers were
Christine Kessides and Kyu Sik Lee. Sophie Lefebvre and Scott Dineen provided administrative
assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Boxes
1.1: AGETIP Selection and Appraisal Criteria .................................. 9
2.1: Types of Subprojects Under AGETIP I ..................................           13
4.1: Health Post Maintenance ..................................                       21
4.2: Focus Group with Donors and AGETIP Staff ..................................      23
5.1: "AGETIPISER" .................................. 26
Annexes
A: Basic Data Sheets .................................. 33
B: AGETIP Statistics ..................................                               39
C: AGETIP Projects in Africa .................................. 47
D: List of Main Documents .................................. 49
E: Comments from AGETIP, ADB, and KfW .................................. 51
Maps
IBRD 28478 Senegal AGETIP Completed Projects
IBRD 28177 AFRICATIP Network



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 23, 1997
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Audit Report on Senegal-AGETIP
Public Works and Employment Project (Credit 2075-SE)
Second Public Works and Employment Project (Credit 2369-SE)
Attached is the Performance Audit Report for the two projects-AGETIP I and II, prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). Credit 2075 (US$20 million equivalent), approved in
FY90, supported AGETIP I. The credit was fully disbursed and closed in September 1993 after a one-
year extension. Cofinancing totaled about US$10 million. Credit 2369 (US$39 million equivalent),
approved in FY92, supported AGETIP II. The credit closed on June 30, 1997, and US$38.2 million
equivalent had been disbursed as of January 3, 1997. Cofinancing totaled US$15 million. The audit
covers both the completed AGETIP I and ongoing AGETIP II projects up to June 1996.
The main objective of both AGETIP projects was to create employment-at least temporarily-
through construction of small, labor-intensive public works situated mainly in urban areas. The projects
were to be cost-effective, highly visible, and socially and economically useful, and to strengthen the
capacity of the local construction industry. They would use transparent but expeditious and flexible
procedures and would not increase the size of the civil service or replace other development programs.
AGETIP II, in addition, would expand its activities beyond major urban areas to smaller municipalities
and transform the executing agency from a temporary into a permanent agency. The major component in
each project was a program of urban works construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance complemented
by training services and monitoring. In addition, a number of pilot activities and a training and studies
program were included in AGETIP II.
AGETIP has been successful not only as an agency (Agence d 'Ex&ution des Travaux d 'Int6ret
Public contre le Sous-emploi [Public Works for Employment Executing Agency]) but in its method
(delegated contract management) of undertaking small public works. This method has been replicated in
many other countries in Africa. South-south networking has been considerable. A regional organization
of AGETIPs has been established in Africa and links have been forged between Latin American social
funds and African AGETIPs. AGETIP has proven to be an efficient organization providing a new and
innovative solution to public works contract management without corruption or additional layers of
bureaucracy. Its success is explained largely by its financial and decision making autonomy, the strong
political support it has received, its private sector philosophy, a results-oriented management culture, a
dedicated staff, transparent procedures, and strict intemal and external accountability.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
The AGETIP projects have met or are expected to meet their objectives. Substantial employment
has been created, although the two IDA-supported projects may create fewer jobs than expected at
appraisal, because many subprojects have been less labor intensive than estimated. The capacity of the
construction industry grew, and most of the pilots, studies, and training activities were successfully
completed. AGETIP has become a permanent agency providing services on a fee basis. Under AGETIP
II, municipalities began making contributions to the cost of subproject funding but at levels substantially
below appraisal estimates. Counterpart funding at both the municipal and central government levels was
problematic throughout most of the project period and was especially severe in 1993-1994, bringing
AGETIP II to the brink of suspension.
AGETIP's mandate is limited to project execution. The "owners," mostly municipalities, are
responsible for project identification and subsequent operation and maintenance (O&M). A special
participatory beneficiary assessment commissioned by OED as part of this audit details major
shortcomings in these areas. Beneficiary involvement in project identification is slight, resulting in a lack
of ownership and-coupled with severe municipal budgetary constraints-poor O&M and uncertain
sustainability. These problems, if uncorrected, will ultimately affect AGETIP's long-term development
impact.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) of AGETIP I rated project outcome as highly satisfactory,
sustainability as likely, and institutional development impact as moderate. The audit rates the outcome of
both projects as satisfactory and sustainability as uncertain, given the problems with community
participation and O&M. OED upgrades institutional development to substantial because of the capacity
building that has taken place in Senegal and beyond. Borrower and IDA performance are rated as
satisfactory.
The audit suggests that improvements can be made if AGETIP strengthens impact evaluation of
subprojects and employment, includes more detailed social and economic analysis in its appraisal
process and ensures that maintenance plans are prepared for completed subprojects. As to the future of
AGETIP, a number of options need to be considered that include separating decisions of funding
allocation from construction management, separating management of construction from management of
complete projects, and privatization. Finally, a capacity building program for communities and
municipalities that will enable them to take an active part in project identification and O&M is necessary.
Robert Picciotto
by Roger Slade
Attachment



3
Ratings and Responsibilities
Performance Ratings
AGETIP I                     AGE TIP II
Outcome                               satisfactory                  satisfactory
Sustainability                       uncertain                      uncertain
Institutional Development             substantial                   substantial
Borrower Performance                  satisfactory                  satisfactory
Bank Performance                     highly satisfactory            satisfactory
Key Project Responsibilities
AGETIP I                               AGE TIP II
Division                               Division
TM           Chief        Director       TM         Chief       Director
Appraisal     Fran,ois   Peter Watson   Mike Gilette   Leslie   Peter Watson  Catherine
Pechon                                    Pean                    Marshall
Midterm         Leslie    Peter Watson    Catherine      Leslie      Alberto       Jean-
Review          Pean                       Marshall       Pean        Harth        Louis
Sarbib
Completion      Leslie    Alberto Harth   Jean-Louis       -           -
Pean                        Sarbib
- Not applicable.
a. No formal midterm review. The most appropriate supervision has been substituted.






5
Preface
This is the Performance Audit Report (PAR) for the Senegal First and Second Public
Works and Employment projects (Credit 2075-SE and Credit 2369-SE), also known as
AGETIP I and AGETIP II. AGETIP, Agence d 'Execution des Travaux d 'Interet contre le Sous-
Emploi (Public Works for Employment Executing Agency), was created in 1989 to execute these
projects. For AGETIP I a credit of US$20 million equivalent was approved on December 14,
1989. The credit was fully disbursed and closed on September 30, 1993, after a one-year
extension. Cofinancing of about US$10 million was provided by the African Development Fund.
Additional funding was provided by Canada and the World Food Programme. For AGETIP II a
credit of US$39 million equivalent was approved on May 21, 1992. The credit was closed June
30, 1997, after a one-year extension, and US$38.2 million equivalent had been disbursed as of
January 3, 1997. Cofinancing of US$15 million equivalent was expected at appraisal, but not
specified. At present, Canada, France, the European Union, and German KfW have committed
additional funding of about US$20 million to AGETIP II.
The PAR covers both the completed AGETIP I and ongoing AGETIP II up to June 1996.
The audit is based on document and file searches, discussions with knowledgeable government,
Bank and donor officials, and a field visit in July 1996 that included two focus group discussions
with stakeholders (donors and AGETIP staff). The OED mission also attended the meeting of
AFRICATIP (a regional association of national programs similar to AGETIP) in Dakar (June
26-28, 1996). The cooperation and assistance of AGETIP, government officials, donor
representatives, the Bank's resident mission staff and the other stakeholders and beneficiaries is
gratefully acknowledged.
To test approaches to participatory evaluation, a special beneficiary assessment was
included in the audit. This assessment was undertaken by the German Development Agency for
Technical Assistance (GTZ). The total cost of this assessment was US$50,000, of which OED
paid US$23,400. The participatory evaluation process proved invaluable for assessing AGETIP
in its wider development context as it involved listening to beneficiaries. The abbreviated
English version of the beneficiary assessment, as well as the full French version of the
beneficiary assessment, "A GE7TP du point du vue des benefzciares," are available from OED
upon request.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) for AGETIP I (completed December 1995)
provides a comprehensive account of the project implementation and lessons learned. The
borrower's report is appended to the PCR. In general the PAR concurs with the PCR findings
and with the midterm review of AGETIP II. However, the audit goes beyond the limited
objectives (employment creation) of the AGETIP projects by investigating the sustainability of
the results on the ground (the works that were constructed to create the employment).
The draft PAR was sent to government and cofinanciers for comments in December
1996. Comments received have been reproduced as annex E to the PAR.






7
1.  Introduction and Background
1.1    AGETIP, Senegal's most recent program to combat unemployment, is widely regarded
as a development success. AGETIP is the name of an agency: Agence d 'Exeicution des Travaux
d'Interet Public contre le Sous-Emploi (Public Works for Employment Executing Agency).
AGETIP is also used to describe the approach of delegated contract management (para. 1.7) that
has been successfully employed in executing and managing public works. And AGETIP is used
to identify projects: AGETIP I was the first public works and employment project (1989-92),
financed in part by Credit 2075. AGETIP II is the second project (1993-96), which is financed
in part by Credit 2369. AGETIP's success encompasses not only the agency but the approach
and the projects.
Origin of AGETIP
1.2   In 1988, Senegal faced serious economic and political problems. Despite a decade of
structural adjustment, economic growth had remained weak throughout the 1980s (2.1 percent
per year), and unemployment had increased (official unemployment rates rose from 16 percent in
1976 to 30 percent in 1989). Unemployment was most severe in urban areas, especially among
the young (two-thirds of the officially unemployed were 25 or younger). The public blamed the
structural adjustment program imposed by the World Bank, the Intemational Monetary Fund,
and France for the situation, and Senegal's political parties exploited public sentiment in order to
build voter support. Then, in February 1988, the young urban unemployed took to the streets in
violent riots and protest.
1.3    Senegal's political leaders realized that they had to do something quickly. Earlier
attempts to fight unemployment had not been very successful. In early 1987, DIRE (Delegation
a l 'Insertion, a la Reinsertion et a l 'Emploi [Employment and Labor Reintegration Authority])
had been created with the assistance of the African Development Bank (ADB) and the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP). DIRE was charged with administering construction
and service programs to provide employment for young graduates and laid-off civil servants.
However, this program suffered from complex institutional design, cumbersome administrative
and management procedures, and political interference.
1.4   It soon became clear that existing government agencies and public enterprises would not
be able to deliver such programs speedily and efficiently. Another type of agency was needed, as
well as simplified procedures that would allow small and medium-sized enterprises to provide
the bulk of the construction work. The World Bank and the government of Senegal worked
closely together to find the solution that ultimately became AGETIP's trademark: delegated
contract management.
1.5   In July 1989, AGETIP was created with the legal status of a nongovernmental
organization (NGO). But it enjoys substantial political backing and still reports to the President.
At the same time, a public works project was prepared for financing by the International
Development Association (IDA) and implementation by AGETIP.
1. See Patrick Labaste (1996), "Success Stories in West Africa, AGETIP: Delegated Contract Management for Public
Works in Senegal and Other African Countries," draft Working Paper. Washington, D.C., World Bank.



8
AGETIP's Approach
1.6   In creating AGETIP, the government of Senegal effectively removed itself from the
management of construction of public works projects but remained involved in strategic
thinking and planning. AGETIP, as an NGO, is governed by its own charter and bylaws and
2
managed by a general assembly made up of members from the private sector. In addition,
AGETIP has been granted exemptions from government procurement and disbursement
procedures and staffing and salary policies. These exemptions have enabled it to employ more
efficient procurement and payment procedures and to attract top-level professionals. Both of
these advantages, as it turned out, were essential to AGETTP's success.
1.7    Delegated contract management (ma trise d 'ouvrage delegue) works as follows: the
originator/owner of a subproject (in AGETIP terminology, owners are called beneficiaries; under
AGETIP I and II, they have mostly been municipalities) submit their proposal to AGETIP.
AGETlIP appraises the subproject and determines its eligibility using criteria specified in the
procedures manual (box 1.1). If the subproject meets the criteria, it is entered into AGETIP's
work program, and AGETIP enters into an agreement (convention de maitrise l 'ouvrage delegue)
with the owners. Under this agreement, all the rights and obligations related to the execution of
the subproject are transferred to AGETIP, making AGETIP fully responsible for execution.
AGETIP takes no action, however, until it receives the owners' counterpart financial
contributions (at present 10 percent). Once it receives the money, AGETIP awards a contract for
detailed engineering. Subsequently, AGETIP carries out all bidding procedures, awards the
contract for construction, supervises execution regularly, and arranges payments to contractors
and consultants (fast payment procedures are one of the attractive features of the AGETIP
approach). AGETIP also contracts with specialized consultants for quality control. When the
project is complete, AGETIP arranges for the transfer of project assets to the owner. AGETIP
also offers frequent seminars for municipalities, contractors, and consultants to explain its
procedures and mandate.
2. Among others, representatives of the construction labor union, the employers' association, and the association of
mayors of Senegal. The Director-Generai is also a member.



9
Box 1.1: AGETIP Selection and Appraisal Criteria
Selection Criteria
a) The project must fit the agreed categories of works (mainly urban works and services);
b) The project must have demonstrated economic and social usefulness;
c) Total costs must be less than the remaining amount of credit available for each subproject category;
d) On-site works must begin in less than three months;
e)  The cost of activities prior to start-up at the work site must be less than 10 percent of the total cost of the project;
f) The percentage of labor costs (including social security taxes) must exceed 20 percent of the total estimated
project cost;
g) The average length of jobs generated during project execution must be more than two weeks;
h) There must be at least two companies with the required qualifications in the geographic area where the project is
carried out;
i) It must be possible to transport, without additional costs, the equipment required on the work site during the time
provided for start-up at the site;
j) There must be no overlapping with another project for which financing is already assured; and
k)  The project must not have been taken out of the Three-Year Public Investment Program (PTIP).
Project Appraisal Factors
a) Total estimated cost;
b) Stage of project planning (the time required and the cost of the activities and procurement necessary before start-
up);
c) Percentage of labor costs in the total estimated cost;
d) Average length of jobs generated by execution of the project;
e) Type and availability of the equipment that will be involved in the works;
f) Eventual percentage of imported materials in the estimated cost of the project;
g) Qualifications required for companies that carry out the works;
h) Quantifiable economic and social benefits expected as a result of the works;
i) Complementary of the project's objectives to those of other projects being carried out or prepared, particularly
those projects included in the Three-Year Public Investment Program (PTIP); and
j) The applicant's financial and technical capacity to maintain the works after completion.
1.8     AGETIP's approach and mandate limit its responsibilities to specific parts of the
subproject cycle. Other parts of the subproject cycle, specifically project conceptualization and
O&M are the responsibility of the owners, with the involvement of the beneficiaries. Implicit in
this approach is the assumption that owners and beneficiaries participate effectively in the
subproject cycle. But as experience has shown and this audit confirms, they often do not.
The Expansion of AGETIP
1.9     AGETIP was established in 1989 as a temporary agency. But its encouraging results
stimulated further activity, and the program expanded rapidly in three areas. First, the success of
AGETIP I led to a second, much bigger project (AGETIP II). Second, the Bank and other donors
made AGETIP responsible for construction management in other projects. At present, AGETIP
manages civil works and urban services funded by, among others, Canada, France, Germany,
Japan, the African Development Fund, the European Union, UNDP, the United Nations Capital
Development Fund, and WFP. For the Bank, AGETIP manages the construction components of
the agricultural research, human resources development, and urban projects. Third, AGETIP has
become the manager of a number of development projects, performing functions that go beyond
contract management. For example, AGETIP is managing a French-funded micro-enterprise



10
credit fimd in Medina, Dakar and two IDA-funded projects, the Community Nutrition Project,
and the Pilot Female Literacy Project.3
1.10   As a result, AGETIP has changed from a temporary to a permanent organization, and its
staff, budget, and financing have increased accordingly (for financial statistics see annex B,
tables 1-3). AGETIP's staff has grown from about 20 to 80 employees, all of whom are nationals
from the private sector. The total amount invested or committed through the program to date is
around US$169 million (annex B, table 6). AGETIP is highly visible in Senegal. Many
construction sites-from the central Independence Square in Dakar to remote villages in
Senegal-are decorated with its signs.
3. AGETIP (see annex E) adds that it also helped establish the Private Sector Foundation and is currently assisting with
the establishment of a Support Program for Municipalities.



11
2.    Project Design and Objectives
2.1    To date, IDA has supported AGETIP with two credits, and a third is under consideration
(the Urban Development and Decentralization Program). The first credit has been closed; the
second is fully committed, and disbursements are expected to be completed within a year.
Table 2.1: Public Works and Employment Projects
Credit 2075                Credit 2369
Amount ($million)                     $20.0                      $39.0
Approval                             12/14/89                   05/21/92
Signed                              01/23/90                    07/31/92
Effectiveness                       03/07/90                    01/27/93
Closing                             09/30/93                    06/30/97
Design
2.2    The project was identified in mid-1988. Identification was followed by a well-balanced
mix of project preparation facility (PPF) activities and Bank preparation and appraisal efforts. In
fact, preparation and appraisal very much followed a learning cycle. A first PPF was approved in
late 1988 to finance a consultant (who would later become the future director of AGETIP) and
with various other consulting services. The project was appraised in March 1989. A procedures
manual was prepared and subsequently discussed and agreed to during negotiations. A second
PPF was approved in May 1989 to fine-tune the approach through the execution of five pilot
subprojects, the hiring of some staff, and the recruitment of additional staff. These activities
would lead to a smooth transition to full-scale implementation.
2.3    As the Project Completion Report (PCR) points out-and this audit confirms-this
successful process was marred somewhat by poor relations with other NGOs. During the
preparation phase, consultants contacted NGOs, which then listed their ideas for subprojects. The
NGOs believed, or were led to believe, that this "wish list" would be financed automatically,
although these proposals, like all others, had to meet AGETIP selection criteria and processing
procedures. This fact was apparently never made clear to the NGOs, so that when project
execution began, they refused to submit themselves to what they perceived as overly rigorous
AGETIP selection and management arrangements.



12
Relations between the NGOs and AGETIP have remained poor, although they have improved
somewhat in the context of the implementation of the Bank social projects managed by
AGETIP.4
2.4     The success of AGETIP I led the government to ask IDA in March of 1991 for a second
project. Preparation again followed a learning cycle. Experience with the first project resulted in
suggestions for updating AGETIP's procedures. A PPF (December 1991) was used to finance
short-term consultants to prepare the various new components that were to be added to the
second project. AGETIP II was appraised in January 1992.
Objectives
2.5     The main objectives of AGETIP I were as follows: (a) to create, at least temporarily,
substantial new employment in urban areas as rapidly as possible; (b) to improve the individual
skills of the workers employed and the corporate competitiveness of the firms carrying out the
works; (c) to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects and test the procedures for
public sector commissioning of such projects; and (d) to undertake economically and socially
useful subprojects. The project was to meet these objectives while avoiding the need to increase
the civil service; combining low cost and high visibility; supporting, but not replacing, other
development programs; and using transparent but expeditious and flexible procedures for
subproject bidding, appraisal, contracting, and disbursements.
2.6     The primary objectives of AGETIP II remained the same: public works execution and
employment creation. Four more were added: (i) the coordination and decentralization of
AGETIP activities in secondary cities; (ii) the development of pilot activities to test the
feasibility of the AGETIP approach in other areas; (iii) the organization of training for
municipalities and small enterprises engaged in project implementation; and (iv) the
transformation of AGETIP into a sustainable agency.
Components
2.7     AGETIP I included the following components: a program of urban public works,
construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance; a package of services related to work organization,
management, and labor force training; and a supervision and monitoring component.
2.8     AGETIP II had three components. The most important was the continuation and
expansion of AGETIP's program of urban public works construction, rehabilitation, and
maintenance. The second encompassed several pilot activities: the application of AGETIP
procedures to the development and management of municipal revenue-earning infrastructure; a
program to improve the efficiency of government procurement; and the development and testing
4. Another irritation for the nongovemmental organizations (NGOs) is that AGETIP itself has the legal status of an
NGO. The NGOs argue that such a status is not appropriate for an agency such as AGETIP, given its strong
commercial orientation and strong relations with govemment. In its observations (annex E) AGETIP notes, however,
that its surplus (profit) in terms of a 5 percent rate of return is unequaled by any other agency or NGO operating
locally, but that such surplus is reinvested in social projects. But see also discussion in para. 6.6 on privatization.
5. Both employees and firms were also to develop their capacity to respond to opportunities for sustained employment
after project completion.



13
of AGETIP-type mechanisms to support rural investments. The third component, training and
studies, included the following: a package of training services related to work organization,
management, and technical skills training; a training program for local engineering firms and
beneficiaries on the preparation of subproject proposals; a monitoring program; a study and
selective audit of the Public Investment Program to analyze existing procurement legislation and
practices; a package of technical assistance to assess the feasibility of establishing a mutual
guarantee company for small contractors; and a program aimed at increasing grassroots
participation in maintaining urban infrastructure.
Types of Subprojects
2.9     The types of projects that are eligible for AGETIP funding are limited. Originally, only
two kinds could be funded: urban works and urban services (see box 2.1). Since then, other
categories have been added, especially as AGETIP expanded into rural areas (the typology of
subprojects is clearly defined in AGETIP's procedures manual).6
Box 2.1: Types of Subprojects Under AGETIP I
As defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for AGETIP, eligible subprojects were expected to include
construction and repair of urban infrastructure and public facilities, street and drainage network cleaning (especially
sand and garbage removal), as well as services to the population, such as garbage collection (especially in remote or
difficult-to-access areas where the existing waste management system is not effective). Eligible subprojects were
divided in two groups: urban works (60 percent of projection) and services (40 percent of projection). Urban works
included the following:
a)  drainage works for low-lying areas, including underground water mains, observation platforms, cesspools,
channel headers, and retaining walls;
b)  minor infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation works (filling in ravines, laying out sidewalks, and repairing
gutters, as well as small sanitation works);
c)  works like those under category (b) carried out on a recurring basis and requiring shift work (filling in potholes,
for example);
d)  the construction of simple buildings such as schools or clinics;
e)  the repair of buildings; this category is subdivided according to the type of labor involved (coating and painting,
carpentry, plumbing, electrical work, roofing, finishing, minor masonry work);
f)  the demolition of condemned buildings and recovery of materials; and
g)  the clearing of brush and terracing works (road shoulders, embankments, and gabions).
Urban services included:
a)  specific works for cleaning public property: removing sand from roadways, cleaning drainage ditches and gutters,
and collecting garbage, for instance;
b)  works like those under category (a) carried out on a recurring basis and requiring shift work; and
c)  planting and park works.
6. Unlike many social funds, AGETIP does not fund investments in production facilities.



14
3.  Implementation Results
3.1    AGETIP I and II were successfully implemented, and the results have been in line with
appraisal expectations. Three aspects far exceeded expectations: AGETIP's rapid expansion as
an agency able to manage donor-funded projects, its growing role in providing complete project
management services, and the extent to which its approach proved replicable in other African
countries.
3.2    AGETIP I was declared effective in March 1990, AGETIP II in January 1993.
Implementation was phased, beginning with the primary cities in the first year of AGETIP I and
expanding to secondary cities in the second year. AGETIP II expanded into rural areas,
establishing regional offices in Saint-Louis, Kaolack, and Ziquinchor.7
3.3    However, the implementation was seriously affected by counterpart funding problems.
This caused delays under AGETIP I, requiring an extension of the closing date and resulting in
conditionality under AGETIP II that linked IDA approval of subproject batches to the
availability of counterpart funding (see para. 5.10). However, the situation became worse in 1993
and 1994, and IDA came close to suspending disbursements in 1995. Not only was government
counterpart funding not forthcoming, but liquidity problems in the Treasury prevented the
disbursement of municipal contributions that had already been properly budgeted and authorized.
The problem was ultimately solved by an agreement to reduce the municipal contribution to 10
percent across the board and extend the AGETIP II completion date, and by other donors
providing credits to the government that could be used to fund these municipal contributions.
While the paralysis on IDA funding of AGETIP II was resolved, the issue of municipal financing
remains.
Employment
3.4    A major objective of both AGETIP projects was the creation of temporary employment.
AGETIP I was expected to create 3,500 person-years of employment annually, or 7,000 during
the two-year project execution period. AGETIP II was expected to produce 5,600 person-years
annually, or about 17,000 during the three-year execution period.
3.5    The latest quarterly report available to the audit mission presents aggregated results as of
February 1996. These aggregates include not only AGETIP I and II projects, but all projects that
AGETIP manages.
* Some 620 subprojects completed under AGETIP I and II have created about 14,000 person-
years of employment. Total cost of the subprojects is CFAF 36 billion (US$46 million
equivalent).8
7. The Ziquinchor office is not yet operational because of unrest in the area.
8. At present exchange rates. However, in looking at AGETIP's business figures over time, analysts should remember
that the CFAF was devalued by about 50 percent in January 1994. On the one hand, the devaluation substantially
increased the CFAF value of the available donor funding to AGETIP. On the other, it increased local costs. It also has
made comparisons in dollar terms over time less meaningful.



15
*   The 649 AGETIP II subprojects under execution have created 3,850 person-years of
employment. At completion, these projects are expected to have created about 19,500
person-years of employment. The subprojects represent commitments of CFAF 28 billion
(US$56 million equivalent).
*   Another 142 projects at a total cost of CFAF 10 billion (US$20 billion equivalent) are under
review. If all these projects are completed, AGETIP expects to have created a total of about
35,000 person-years of employment.
3.6     According to these aggregate figures, AGETIP has exceeded the employment targets
established for both projects. Narrowed down to the specific IDA funded projects, however, the
figures present a different story (annex B, table 6).10 About 8,500 person-years of employment
were created under AGETIP I-more than expected at appraisal-but around half were
generated under the WFP, a cofinancier not included in the original AGETIP I financing plan.
Under AGETIP II, about 6,000 person-years of employment have been created to date. As about
half the commitments have been disbursed, the final figure under AGETIP II should reach
about 12,000 person-years. This figure would be lower than expected at appraisal.12
3.7     AGETIP has created substantial temporary employment using resources from both
Bank-supported projects and from other donor-sponsored projects. Compared with the original
AGETIP I and II estimates, the number of jobs created to date is about what was expected, but at
completion of AGETIP II might not fully meet appraisal expectations. The major reason for this
differential is that the subprojects constructed have been less labor intensive than expected
(paras. 3.10-3.1 1).
Enterprises and Consultants
3.8     The second objective of both projects was capacity building in the construction industry.
Most of the project disbursements were for small contracts of less than US$200,000 executed
largely by small and medium-sized enterprises. A substantial number of these enterprises
improved their skills and capacity by participating in AGETIP projects. The substantial training
provided by AGETIP for the construction enterprises has been much appreciated by the business
community (para. 4.12).
9. The summary in the original AGETIP report mentions 27 projects. This figure is an error, as the subsequent tables
add up to 140. The problem with AGETIP figures is that there are so many that it is not always easy to distinguish
among them. Instead of publishing hundreds of pages of detailed accounts (which are available in computerized form
in any case), AGETIP should present analytical summaries.
10. In AGETIP terminology, all projects managed during 1989-1992 are regarded as AGETIP I and all those managed
during 1993-1996 as AGETIP II. Annex B, tables 4 and 6, break the projects down into "basic" AGETIP projects (but
even this category includes cofinancing not envisaged at appraisal) and other projects for which AGETIP has delegated
contract management responsibility. A third category beyond AGETIP I and II includes projects for which AGETIP
has management responsibility.
11. AGETIP 1, Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), table 2.2.
12. AGETIP notes (see annex E) that the analysis should take acount of the devaluation that resulted in a 60 percent
increase of construction costs and 20 percent increase in labor costs. However, it is also true that the CFAF value of
foreign-currency-denominated lending increased substantially (see para. 3.5, footnote 9).



16
3.9    In order to benefit from AGETIP contracts, engineering consultants and construction
enterprises must be prequalified.  About 300 consulting engineering firms are currently
registered with AGETIP, up from around 80 in 1991, and some 1,900 construction enterprises,
substantially more than the 350 registered in 1991. Competition for contracts is stiff: fewer than
one-third of the enterprises registered have received AGETIP contracts. AGETIP must determine
whether this percentage is satisfactory in light of the program's institution-building objectives.
Labor Content
3.10   A third objective was to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects, in part by
testing procedures for commissioning them. The project has clearly demonstrated that
procedures for bidding, contracting, and disbursing small public works can be made simple and
flexible while producing good results.
3.11   Both AGETIP I and II were expected to generate subprojects with substantial labor
content (more than 20 percent). But it was also assumed that an average of 33 percent of the
subprojects contract amounts would be paid in wages (including social security).14 As the figures
in annex B, table 6 show, the labor ratio is 28 percent for AGETIP I and 23 percent for AGETIP
II. Only a few programs-WFP-supported subprojects, for instance-have met or surpassed the
expected 33 percent. The labor content of most subprojects has consistently surpassed the
minimum requirements but stayed below the expected level.
Economic and Social Usefulness
3.12   The subprojects constructed under the project had to be socially and economically
useful. Subprojects actually undertaken helped rehabilitate deteriorated urban infrastructure such
as public buildings, elementary schools, dispensaries, community centers, roads, sidewalks, and
drainage canals. These are widely regarded as socially worthwhile investments, although
subprojects selected have not always reflected the first priorities of the population (see chapter
4). However, little economic analysis has been done. This is the case for many other social fund
type projects as well. Economic analysis at appraisal concentrated on employment creation, not
on economic rate of return (ERR) calculations for the works created. However, at completion
ERRs were calculated for a small sample of subprojects.'5 These range from about 10 percent
for the development of parks to about 38 percent for urban road works.
Efficiency
3.13   AGETIP projects were expected to meet their objectives without increasing the size of
the civil service or replacing other programs. They were to be low cost and highly visible and to
have transparent and efficient procedures. AGETIP has become a highly visible and powerful
organization (paras. 1.9-1.10). It is lean and efficient. For example, according to the SAR,
accounts were to be paid within fewer than ten days. At the completion of AGETIP I, the average
13. Enterprises are classified in a number of categories according to their capabilities. The category determiines the size
and complexity of the contract the enterprise is eligible to bid for.
14. SAR, AGETIP I, para 2.33; SAR, AGETIP II, para. 3.50.
15. SAR, AGETIP II, para. 3.48; PCR, AGETIP I, para. 25.



17
turnaround time was three days. 6 The procurement process for projects was to be completed in
less than three months. At the completion of AGETIP I, the average procurement process took
just over a month; since then, it has risen slightly but remains well under two months. About 90
percent of the contracts awarded by AGETIP are completed within the specified time.
Municipal Participation
3.14   AGETIP II also aimed to involve municipalities in the financing process in two ways. 7
First, through direct participation in funding during AGETIP I, each subproject received 100
percent of funding. Municipalities, the major beneficiaries, did not have to contribute funds, an
arrangement that many felt had a negative impact on ownership and resulted in inadequate
O&M. Therefore, under AGETIP II, municipalities were expected to finance 50 percent of all
subprojects. Because some had limited resources, communities were asked to pay according to
their ability (from 50-10 percent). Second, through an incentive fund that would match recurrent
savings, municipalities would transfer into their investment budgets.
3.15   In the end, municipal financial participation remained weak. First, because municipal
contributions were an obstacle to participation, IDA agreed to limit them to 10 percent (see para.
3.3). The incentive fund never materialized. In retrospect, both measures were probably
overoptimistic, given the status of municipal financing in Senegal. Reform of municipal
financing will become part of the Urban Development and Decentralization Project under
preparation by IDA.
Pilot and Training and Studies Activities (AGETIP II)
3.16   Decentralization. AGETIP II also aimed to decentralize AGETIP, transform it into a
permanent agency, and undertake a number of pilot activities and a program of training and
studies (paras. 2.6 and 2.8). A number of regional offices were created (para. 3.2), and AGETIP
became a permanent agency operating on a fee for service basis.
3.17   Pilot activities. AGETIP undertook a number of pilot activities, with varying degrees of
success. It did successfully expand into rural areas. Its procurement experience was used in a
review of government procurement practices and legislation, and the government is presently
considering implementing its proposals for legislative and administrative change. Efforts to
apply AGETIP principles to the development and management of municipal revenue-earning
infrastructure failed, however. The idea had been to create a joint venture between AGETIP and
the municipal credit fund that would provide financing (primarily loans), with repayment geared
to the amount of revenue generated.  However, because subsidized alternatives were available
from AGETIP and other donors, there was no demand for this type of financing.
16. Turnaround has since increased because of problems managing the cash flow. The revolving funds are not large
enough to meet all payment demands. As a result payments are interrupted until revolving funds are replenished, and
replenishment is slow.
17. This objective was not mentioned in the list of project objectives, bLit it was specially noted in the SAR (para.
3.10).
18. This fund was created in the Housing Bank under the IDA Municipal Housing Project.



Is
3.18   Training and studies. AGETIP has been highly successful in providing a package of
training services to construction enterprises, local engineering firms, and municipalities. A study
into the feasibility of a mutual guarantee company was successfully completed, and the company
has been established. AGETIP has continued its efforts to foster grassroots participation through
its local public relations programs and has completed a study and survey on community
participation. But there is little evidence that these activities have actually increased grassroots
participation in AGETIP subprojects.
3.19   Monitoring and evaluation. A monitoring program was included to broaden the scope of
project supervision and improve efforts at evaluation. The AGETIP computerized management
information system is sufficiently detailed for all supervision requirements but is not adequate
for evaluation. Statistical shortcomings have been noted in the methodology of AGETIP surveys,
most of which are contracted out to consultants. A statistical expert may be needed to review the
terms of reference and proposed methodologies for all evaluation surveys. Further, little is
known about the impact of AGETIP projects beyond the number of workdays created. There are
no measures of the economic and social impact of the subprojects or of the permanent
employment AGETIP has generated. The audit suggests that more impact evaluation of the
AGETIP program is highly desirable.



19
4.   Beneficiary Assessment
4.1    As noted in the SAR for AGETIP II, there were four groups of intended beneficiaries:
the population at large, small construction enterprises, municipalities, and consulting engineers.
All four of these groups have benefited considerably from the hundreds of highly visible
construction and service projects AGETIP has executed throughout the country. AGETIP plays a
crucial role in providing Senegal's building industry with a market and many young people with
jobs. It is hardly surprising that everyone-from high-ranking politicians in Dakar to unskilled
workers on the building sites-wants the AGETIP program to continue. But, if that is to happen,
the benefits must be sustainable.
4.2    Partly as an experiment, OED commissioned a separate participatory beneficiary
assessment.  The German donor agency Deutsche Gesellshaftfuir Technische Zussamenarbeit
(GTZ) agreed to conduct the assessment. OED paid US$23,400 for the beneficiary assessment,
but these are its incremental costs, as for example GTZ staff time was not covered. The "real"
costs of the beneficiary assessment would have been closer to US$50,000.
4.3    All the evidence from the assessment suggests that AGETIP is widely regarded as
successful and that it should continue. It is regarded as an efficient organization, although its
efficiency could be improved. But many respondents feel that AGETIP has become
overburdened and thus does not perform as well as it could. There is also a strong sense that
project conceptualization and maintenance leave much to be desired and that some adjustments
are needed. But the need most often expressed was for more participatory community
involvement in the subproject cycle.
Approach
4.4    To ensure the autonomy of the assessment, AGETIP's involvement was limited. Site
selections were discussed with several AGETIP staff, and a final verification workshop was
organized with AGETIP management. A team of three local consultants supervised by a GTZ
staff member carried out the assessment, which took about four weeks, including two weeks of
field work. In addition to the final workshop with AGETIP management, the assessment
included three moderated workshops with beneficiaries in Dakar, Saint Louis, and Diourbel.20
The team visited 23 project sites in Pikine, Saint Louis, and Diourbel and held 33 structured
interviews with beneficiaries. In all, the team listened to 159 individuals. The findings of this
rapid assessment cannot be representative in any statistical sense, but they offer a reasonable
indication of AGETIP's strengths and weaknesses.
19. It was not the principle of a participatory beneficiary assessment that needed testing, but rather the methodology,
applicability, and replicability of these assessments for OED's work.
20. Each workshop included a self-introduction by the participants and covered the relationship between the
participants and AGETIP. The main part of the workshop was dedicated to establishing the strong and weak points of
AGETIP.



20
4.5    The assessment focused on the development impact of the many small civil works that
are AGETIP's hallmark. Sustainability was used as a proxy for development impact.21 The
assessment also looked at what happened before the AGETIP subprojects were executed and
after project assets were transferred to communities.
Beneficiary Views
4.6    The origin of project ideas ("Where does the project idea come from?") and operation
and maintenance (O&M) issues were covered in almost every interview. While the opinions
differed, the need to improve maintenance and have the population participate more closely was
clearly the dominant concern of almost all beneficiaries. At the same time, entrepreneurs and
engineers who have more insight and knowledge of how AGETIP works pointed out that project
identification and maintenance are outside its mandate.
4.7    Most municipal administrators felt that the projects were in line with the people's needs.
But other groups of beneficiaries contested this view, pointing to the lack of consultation
("AGETIP sends an engineer, and only then does the population know that there will be a
project") and to the fact that subprojects have not always been in line with priorities ("the
residents of the neighborhood would have preferred a sanitation project instead of sidewalks").
Politics and prestige were seen as determining the choice of subprojects.
4.8    Some projects, however, clearly had originated from a people's initiative or reflected
community priorities. For example, the garbage collection project in the community of Pikine
had its roots in neighborhood-based youth initiatives. The rainwater drainage canal in the
Thierno Kandji neighborhood of Diourbel is a more complicated example. While the canal met
neighborhood preferences, the technical solution did not. As a group of young women explained:
We asked for help because of the flooding and they built a canal for us . .. we hope that the canal
will contribute to solving the flooding problem, but for the moment it is creating lots of problems.
First of all, mosquitoes. Second, the canal is not covered, and that makes it risky for children who
play nearby. There have already been a few accidents.
4.9    In this context, beneficiaries-especially engineers and entrepreneurs-noted that
AGETIP could expand its appraisal procedures by including a social assessment and taking into
account earlier studies and other project proposals. At present, only technical engineering studies
are included in the AGETIP preparation process. Expanding the appraisal process would require
rethinking AGETIP's mandate and fee structure. Beneficiaries were concerned that such a
change would create delays and that AGETIP would thus lose one of its main advantages, speed
of execution.
4.10   Opinions regarding maintenance were less diverse, with most beneficiaries agreeing that
O&M of program assets leaves much to be desired. Municipalities are required to maintain the
AGETIP subprojects, but almost all the municipal representatives said they found maintenance
21. Sustainability is measured by the subsequent operation and maintenance of completed quality investments. Regular
maintenance is proof that beneficiaries have accepted ownership of a project. This requires participation in one form or
another.
22. Beneficiaries included municipal staff, small entrepreneurs and engineers, workers and the local population in the
areas in which the AGETIP subprojects were executed.



21
difficult because of a lack of resources. However, the issue is not just financial; it has a social
dimension as well. As a municipal manager explained: "Maintenance is not only a matter of
available finances . .. the issue of involvement and ownership is also important ... if we are
talking about maintenance, involvement is what counts." Except for the suggestion that AGETIP
should prepare maintenance plans, most of the criticism recorded in beneficiary interviews
regarding maintenance concerned the municipalities. The major deficiencies were described as
follows: most of the budget is needed for salaries; no budget provisions have been made for
maintenance; there is a shortage of technical staff who can develop maintenance plans;
municipal administration and management are poor; and communication within the
municipalities is lacking. The beneficiary assessment concludes that the real needs of the
population had not been understood and that beneficiaries had not been able to participate
sufficiently in project identification, resulting in little incentive to maintain assets. But those
subprojects in which beneficiaries had participated from the beginning did generate a sense of
ownership and were relatively well maintained (box 4.1). But participation, and thus ownership,
may be easier to establish in desirable social infrastructure projects (such as health posts and
schools) than in other types of municipal works (such as sidewalks, roads and community
centers).23
Box 4.1: Health Post Maintenance
The health post in the Keur Cheik Anta neighborhood of Diourbel, built by AGETIP in 1993-94 under the Human
Resources Development Project, is remarkably well managed and maintained. A neighborhood committee is in charge
of operation and maintenance. The small pharmacy carries a supply of essential drugs and makes a profit (drugs are
provided to the health post with substantial subsidies). Patients pay CFAF 100 per consultation, and profits and fees
are used to pay for additional staff and maintenance. According to the head of the clinic (a woman employed by the
Ministry of Health), this system works well, and the clinic's services respond to the most pressing needs of the
neighborhood. In another case, the young president of a women's group in the Medinatoul neighborhood of Diourbel
confirmned the women's readiness to participate financially in maintaining the municipal clinic located in their
neighborhood. The president noted, "Before the clinic was built, we had to travel some distance and pay CFAF 100 to
reach the nearest clinic. Now that we have a clinic close by, if they ask us to contribute CFAF 100 to repair a wall, we
will."
4.11    Two lessons emerge here. First, financial problems play an important part in explaining
the inability of the municipalities to maintain projects. Severe budget problems limit what
municipalities can do and are further aggravated by the lack of a sense of ownership.24 Second,
proper planning for maintenance needs to be done, but O&M is not part of AGETIP's mandate.
Unfortunately, municipalities often lack the technical capabilities to maintain project assets.25 A
former municipal secretary-general described what is needed: "Once the infrastructure
23. However, it should be noted that while AGETIP executes a wide range of works for many donors and projects, the
AGETIP I & 11 projects covered mainly urban works and services.
24. Discussing this absence of community ownership, people say Alalu buur la (it belongs to the king). Nobody feels
responsible for such projects-that is, the king should maintain them.
25. During the final workshop with AGETIP, the AGETIP management team agreed that preparing a maintenance plan
for each project would be useful but noted that AGETIP's current mandate does not include such work. It was pointed
out that whenever a project is handed over, AGETIP sends a letter that, among other things, tells the municipality
about necessary maintenance tasks. However, this information is often of a general nature and does not specify how
much work is required, how long it will take, or how much it will cost.



22
belonging to the community has been delivered, the municipality and AGETIP should calculate
and make official the maintenance requirements for each element. And their projections should
be properly incorporated in the maintenance budget."
Workshop Results
4.12   The main purpose of the workshops was to identify and prioritize AGETIP's strengths
and weaknesses. The results were encouraging. Beneficiaries ranked AGETIP's strongest points
as follows:
* employment generation;
*  the training program for entrepreneurs and consulting engineers;
*  the efficiency and transparency of AGETIP operations; and
*  the experience gained by working with AGETIP.
As one AGETIP trainer explained: "For the entrepreneurs that I evaluated, at least half of these
activities were AGETIP related . .. The fact that they had worked with AGETIP helped gain
access to other contracts, because their experience with AGETIP was a favorable calling card."
This positive feedback from beneficiaries can be summed up in a few words: good performance
and results and good capacity building.
4.13   There was also criticism. On the administrative side, beneficiaries were concerned about
the slowed procedures that resulted from AGETIP' s rapid expansion and subsequent excessive
workload. For instance, AGETIP now needs more time to pay bills than it has required in
previous years (para. 3.13). Entrepreneurs and consulting engineers complained about tight unit
pricing and inadequate payments. As one engineer observed: "You are not poor if you work for
AGETIP, but you certainly don't get rich either." Municipal staff complained about insufficient
community involvement. A widespread concern was the absence of maintenance. Finally, many
felt that AGETIP projects did not always reflect the priorities of the people. This criticism
suggests that AGETIP needs to improve its efficiency and encourage greater community
participation.
4.14   As part of the beneficiary assessment, a final workshop was organized with the AGETIP
management team. The managers' perceptions of AGETIP can be summarized as follows: the
program is good with regard to employment creation, transparency, and rapid project execution,
but it needs to improve its communication with partners. The managers also discussed various
scenarios for initiating and processing project ideas and agreed that preparing detailed
maintenance plans would be useful.
4.15    Two separate focus groups with donors and AGETIP staff confirmed many of these
findings (box 4.2).  Donors observed that beneficiary participation in project preparation is still
lacking and that improvements are needed. Donors feel that AGETIP is much more efficient than
the government but are concerned about the large number of projects AGETIP is now asked to
26. These were organized separately from the beneficiary assessment. They were moderated by an independent
consultant and took place at the Bank's resident mission. The consultant report is available in the OED files.



23
handle. They see that AGETlIP staff are overloaded and that the quality of work suffers. Many of
the AGETIP staff participating in the focus group consider themselves overworked and agree
that the cause of the problem is AGETIP's involvement in too many projects. But their
perceptions on efficiency differ somewhat from that of the donors. The staff remains convinced
that AGETIP's work is of high quality, even though they have misgivings about maintenance.
Box 4.2: Focus Group with Donors and AGETIP Staff
The two meetings with the donors and AGETIP staff produced the following list of recommendations for the
agency's future:
*   The quality of work performed by the enterprises should be upgraded through a more intensive technical training
program for site supervisors and others concerned with the technical monitoring of projects.
*   Attention should be paid to promoting new enterprises and training entrepreneurs in rural areas.
*   Decentralization and abandoning AGETIP's monopoly would encourage increased competition from the private
sector.
*   Local authorities should be given more autonomy in managing counterpart funds through local taxes or similar
mechanisms.
*   A way should be found to increase the degree of beneficiary participation in project identification and
preparation.
*   The AGETIP ethos should be extended to government agencies in order to generate changes in the attitude of
civil servants and encourage transparency and regular evaluations.
*   Efforts should be made to improve coordination between AGETIP and the ministries and the organizations of
civil society.



24
5.    Ratings
5.1    The PCR for AGETIP I rated project outcome as highly satisfactory, institutional
development (since it was still confined to a small segment of government procedures) as
moderate, and sustainability as likely.  Both borrower and Bank performance were rated as
highly satisfactory. The audit agrees with the satisfactory outcome rating, but rates institutional
development as substantial and sustainability as uncertain and borrower and Bank performance
as satisfactory.
Outcome
5.2    AGETIP I and II achieved their objectives. Employment was created substantially in line
with appraisal expectations (para. 3.7). Capacity in the consulting and construction sectors was
improved. Labor-intensive approaches were utilized, although the labor content of most
subprojects was lower than had been expected (para. 3.11). Subprojects were cost-effective and
AGETIP procedures transparent and efficient. Some of AGETIP II's secondary objectives were
only partly achieved. Implementation was delayed, due to shortfalls in counterpart funding.
However, overall project outcome is rated satisfactory.
Sustainability
5.3    Sustainability is assessed from three angles: the institution of AGETIP, the employment
created, and the public works projects, created by the AGETIP investment program.
5.4    While AGETIP was originally only a temporary agency, it became a permanent, fee-
based institution under AGETIP II. Its financial statements (see annex B, tables 2-3) and audit
reports indicate good financial performance, and it is well managed. Therefore, if donor and
other funding for public works construction continue to be available (a reasonable assumption)
AGETIP is likely to be able to continue to attract construction management business (but on the
future of AGETIP see also chapter 6).
5.5    Employment has been created, some of it permanent, in the construction and consulting
industries, mostly in the form of temporary construction jobs.28 In fact this was the objective of
AGETIP-creation of temporary employment. Sustainability is not really relevant in this
context. To the extent of course that construction activity in Senegal continues-a reasonable
assumption given the present status of economic development and external funding in Senegal-
these temporary workers will continue to be employed at temporary construction jobs.
5.6    Most project funds were invested in the construction of small public works, the project's
results on the ground. To benefit from these investments, O&M is required but appears
somewhat problematic. As the beneficiary assessment makes clear, communities have not been
27. These are the OED-validated project completion report (PCR) ratings as recorded in the OED annual review
database.
28. While the jobs are temporary, construction workers move from one construction site to the next. Hence, many of
them are, for all practical purposes, full-time employed.



25
able to participate fully in these subprojects and thus lack a sense of ownership, creating
problems with O&M. Municipalities have little if any resources for maintenance. Community-
based cost recovery systems have been put in place for some subpro ects (especially for health
and education ), but most continue to operate without such systems. The audit mission
observed some subprojects (paved roads and community centers, for example) that have already
deteriorated to the point at which they need major rehabilitation.30 Other subprojects did not
seem to meet the priorities of the communities. Under these circumstances, the likelihood of
subproject sustainability is at best uncertain.
5.7     Following the completion of the audit, its sustainability findings have raised some
debate.31 Regional staff have expressed reservations on the grounds that the project had a strong
impact: local construction industry capacity building, public procurement reform, municipal
strengthening, ingenuity in project design, and excellent execution without expatriates. These are
solid achievements, recognized in the audit. But this does not address the sustainability issue of
how to maintain and operate the subprojects after the results-oriented urgent phase is over after
the first project. Even the PCR has expressed reservations about sustainability. It notes with
regard to sustainability that "with proper maintenance, works executed under the project should
have a lifespan of 30 years or more. The question of their being properly maintained is
problematic, however." AGETIP also disagrees with this rating assessment (annex E). Their
argument is largely based on the fact that they do an excellent job (agreed, and acknowledged in
the audit) and that quality at exit is very good and getting better (in general the audit does not
dispute this either). However, the point is not quality at exit. It is maintenance and operation of
subprojects after they are handed back to the owners. The point of the audit is not to point to
AGETIP as responsible for sustainability; that is not in its mandate. The audit simply found that
there is doubt that owners might have sufficient means and capacity to deliver this sustainability.
This is confirmed in the beneficiary assessment (chapter 4). The future might change this
capacity. But at the time of evaluation sustainability was not assured, hence uncertain. The main
objective of the follow-up operation, appraised in March 1997, is to address the issue of lack of
financial and technical resources at the municipal level.
Institutional Development
5.8     AGETIP has significantly improved the management of financial resources from donors
in Senegal and demonstrated the efficacy of an efficient and transparent management system.
AGETIP's procurement experience seems to be leading to reform of government procurement
procedures. Substantial capacity building has taken place. Senegal's construction industry has
been materially strengthened and improved through AGETIP training and construction of
29. But most health and education construction was part of other projects. AGETIP I & 11 mainly invested in urban
works and services.
30. This is a valid observation but by no means a representative random sample. In fact given the debate about the
sustainability of the AGETIP subprojects it might be a good idea to launch in a few years an impact evaluation on a
random sample of AGETIP I & 1I subprojects possibly combined, in partnerships with others, with similar impact
evaluations of subprojects financed under other projects/lines of credit.
31. Sustainability is not just an issue for these two projects. The recent Social Fund Portfolio review has indicated that
sustainability was a concern in many Social Fund projects. "In order for Social Fund projects to realize their
development impact and become sustainable, conditions need to be in place to ensure that subprojects financed by the
Social Fund are demand oriented, owned by communities in the design, implementation, and maintenance plans, and
that appropriate institutional and financial arrangements are put in place to sustain project benefits."



26
subprojects. The AGETIP approach has been replicated without expatriate technical assistance in
many countries in Africa (paras. 5.13-5.14). South-south exchange of experience has been
considerable (para. 5.15). The projects' institutional development impact is therefore rated as
substantial.
5.9    AGETIP provides a new and innovative solution to public works contract management
without creating bureaucracy and without corruption. What explains its success? First, it was set
up as an NGO with a "private sector" philosophy. Second, it has benefited from strong political
support. Third, it is accountable to the government and donors and therefore pursues high
standards of efficiency and transparency. Fourth, it has a highly motivated and dedicated staff
that follows strict ethical and professional standards (independence, impartiality, cost-
consciousness, and efficiency). Fifth, it has complete financial autonomy in decision-making
within the context of it statutes, bylaws, and project agreements with the government.32 Sixth, it
provides substantial training to its partners (enterprises, consultants, and municipal managers).
This training increases general awareness of AGETIP's approach and improves the quality of
project execution. And finally, it has a results-oriented management culture.
Borrower Performance
5.10   Borrower performance was mixed. On the one hand, the govermnent provided strong
support for the project. On the other, there were major problems with counterpart funding.
AGETIP has benefited from strong political support and the good working relations it has
developed with the government and IDA. AGETIP has in fact become very popular with the
government, which has learned that the program's management approach can be very successful.
As a result, AGETIP manages construction activities for many projects and provides full
management for others, and the AGETIP approach is being applied to other sectors (box 5.1) The
government has exempted AGETIP from taxes and freed it from cumbersome government
procurement procedures. It does not interfere in the day-to-day affairs of AGETIP and has
adhered to the procedures manual. However, the delays in counterpart funding had a negative
impact on the time needed for project implementation. Because of this experience, a strong
covenant was included in the AGETITP II credit agreement linking the review by IDA subproject
batches to the disbursement of counterpart funding.
Box 5.1: "AGETIPISER"
AGETIP has had such an impact that a new verb has come into existence: "Agetipiser," meaning to use the AGETIP
approach to make things more efficient, to set them right, or to fix them. World Bank and govenmment officials often
tell each other that in order for a project to be done properly, "ilfaut Agelipiser"(it will have to be agetipped).
5.11   As the PCR rightly points out, the performance of the executing agency was outstanding.
AGETIP's director has provided strong leadership and continuity, participating in project
preparation and attending negotiations. Over the course of the two IDA projects, AGETIP has
32. The procedures manual is an integral part of this project agreement.
33. Project closing of AGETIP I was delayed by II months because the government deposited funds more slowly than
anticipated.



27
remained dynamic, enthusiastic, committed, and highly effective. AGETIP has implemented
IDA supervision mission recommendations in a timely manner and submitted progress and audit
reports on schedule. Its financial audits have not been qualified by its auditors. Taking into
account the various aspects of government support and project implementation, borrower
performance is rated as satisfactory.
IDA Performance
5.12   IDA can be credited with helping the government find innovative solutions to an urgent
development problem. It mounted a relatively swift preparation and appraisal process for
AGETIP II while simultaneously setting in motion the necessary start-up activities. This
"phased" approach was very successful (paras. 2.2-2.4). IDA's role in identification,
preparation, and appraisal was therefore highly satisfactory. As the PCR points out, IDA worked
closely with AGETIP and the government to promote a strong working relationship between the
two. Its supervision was also satisfactory: regular and frequent supervision missions took place
using a variety of skills. Especially noteworthy was the continuity IDA provided. One staff
member has been involved with the projects since the appraisal of AGETIP. AGETIP's
efficiency facilitated supervision considerably, allowing IDA to assign fewer staff than usual to
supervision. Overall, IDA's performance was highly satisfactory.
Replicability and Networking
5.13   AGETIP has created substantial externalities in the form of replicability, south-south
capacity building, and networking. While labor-intensive public work programs are not new, the
AGETIP approach has led to an increasing number of such projects across Africa. The projects
are seemingly successful and in many cases benefit from IDA financing (see annex C).
5.14   In order to benefit from each other's experience, African AGETIPS created a regional
association in January 1993 (AFRICATIP: Association Rlgionale des Agences d 'Execution des
Travaux d 'Interet Public [Regional Association of AGETIPs]). AFRICATIP formalized the
spontaneous networking and dialogue that had developed among these programs. Under the aegis
of specific executing agencies, AFRICATIP organizes meetings, some internal (agency
management only) and some external (donors and other outside organizations). These efforts
have resulted in substantial cross-fertilization. At present, 14 agencies are members and another
9 potential members that attend meetings as observers. This south-south capacity buildinf, while
supported by donors, has taken place without any external expatriate technical assistance. 4
5.15   A link has also been established with social funds in Latin America, where I 1 funds
have formed a network and hold annual meetings. In April 1995, with the support of the
Economic Development Institute of the World Bank (EDI), representatives from AGETIP met
with delegations of the Bolivia and Honduras Social Investment Funds in Nouakchott,
Mauritania to compare notes. For AGETIP, four aspects of the social fund experience were of
interest: (i) the multisectoral approach (most social funds embrace more than just infrastructure);
34. The OED mission attended the most recent extemal AFRTICATIP (Regional Association of AGETIPs) meeting in
Dakar in June 1996. AGETIP managers discussed (among other items) commnunity participation, the geographical
extension of interventions, the status of staff, the relationship between fee structure and turnover, the distribution of
profits, and what to do in cases of liquidation.



28
(ii) the geographical distribution (social funds are not limited to urban areas, although some of
the AGETIPs, such as Senegal's, already operate in rural areas); (iii) the evolution from
temporary emergency operations to permanent investment funds in the social sectors; and (iv)
the relationship between the social funds and the politics of decentralization. The AGETIPs
underscored four strong points of their experience: (i) managerial autonomy; (ii) small
administrative structures; (iii) transparency and accountability confirmed through independent
audits; and (iv) labor-intensive techniques. Other major issues of common interest were O&M
and cost recovery. Participants concluded that to deal effectively with these issues, development
programs must establish processes and procedures that "encourage community ownership and
partnership in subproject execution. Experience shows that these issues are solved once the
beneficiaries do not feel alienated from the development process."35
35. See Leslie Pean (1996), "Africa and Latin America: AGETIP and Social Funds," Batir, Revue d'AGETIP
Senegal.



29
6.  The Future of AGETIP
6.1     AGETIP has proved its ability to provide efficient, effective management for public
works programs within Senegal. It has emerged as a replicable, best-practice model for projects
in other countries and has helped to create linkages among similar programs in developing
countries. It has been successful, but the sustainability of its development results is uncertain,
and this needs to be addressed through changes within AGETIP, but more importantly in its
development environment.
6.2     How will AGETIP face future challenges? This question is already being addressed in a
number of studies, in discussions at AFRICATIP meetings (para. 5.14 and footnote 34), and in
the dialogue among AGETIP, the government, and donors.3
6.3     Most importantly, beneficiaries need to be involved more closely in project
identification and planning to ensure the sustainability of the subprojects, especially in the
framework of Senegal's regionalization and decentralization policies. In his opening statement to
the AFRICATIP meeting in Dakar, Senegal's President noted, "Taking into account the new
regionalization policies, AGETIP must make possible a much greater participation of the
population in the identification, supervision, and maintenance of the works that are realized for
the benefit of their communities." The question of how to ensure such participation remains.
Some believe that the solution is to give AGETIP greater responsibilities for project
identification and O&M. But AGETIP is no substitute for beneficiary participation, and
development experience does not support this idea. One lesson of integrated rural development is
that transferring government responsibilities to project units does not lead to sustainable
institutional development.37 And experience with rural development funds points to the dangers
38
of overburdening them.  What is needed is capacity development at the municipal/community
level. This kind of activity is not in AGETIP's mandate, but the municipalities need help if they
are to play their proper role in this development process.
6.4    Under AGETIP I and II, AGETIP not only provided contract management but also
controlled priorities and funding, so that the municipalities felt, to a large extent, that project
monies did not belong to them. In other projects, however, AGETIP has only managed work
contracts while project staff set priorities, allocated funds and performed other project duties.
The audit suggests that due consideration should be given to separating funding discussions from
contract management. Funds would be channeled directly to municipalities, which would
determine investment priorities and choose projects. Only then would the municipalities contact
AGETIP for specific contract management.
36. For example, "ttude Bilan et Perspectives AGETIP Phase II," Final Report prepared for AGETIP by SENECI
(Senegalese d'Etudes de Conseils et d'Interventions) consultants, May 1996, Dakar.
37. "The temptation to set up enclave projects outside the regular administrative structure helped achieve short-term
objectives in come cases, but at the expense of institutional growth towards achieving self-sustained development."
OED, Rural Development, World Bank Experience, 1965-1986. Washington D.C.: World Bank, 1988.
38. For example, the experience with the Burkina Faso Rural Development fund. See PAR on Burkina Faso Third
Rural Development Project (Credit 1218-BUR), OED Report 13225, 1994.



30
6.5     As a temporary agency, AGETIP operated on a budget basis and was reimbursed for its
expenses. After becoming a pernanent agency, its administrative and management costs have
been funded on a fee basis (5 percent, levied on turnover). This change safeguards AGETIP's
autonomy, has substantially accelerated diversification, and brings the program in line with
intemational contract management practices.39 The fee system does require that AGETIP attract
a minimum amount of business in order to remain profitable. There is at present no reason for
concern, but auditors should project fee levels in light of several possible future business
scenarios and also analyze the fee system in more detail to assess its applicability to other social
funds.
6.6     As to the agency itself, the PCR suggested alternatives: "AGETIP could continue as an
NGO as it is now; convert into a for profit organization; and/or split into smaller units." It
recommended that: " . . . AGETIP (should] split into smaller competing units, some of which
could become for-profit, while others would remain nonprofit to maintain its focus on assisting
the disadvantaged." 40 In creating AGETIP, the government effectively decided to privatize
some of its construction management functions. But AGETIP still has strong links with
govemment, and AGETIP has a preferential status as an NGO free from taxes and duties.41
AGETIP is for all practical purposes a monopoly, and private sector entrepreneurs have little
chance of competing for contract management business.42 As construction management is
largely a private sector business, it is logical to privatize AGETIP.43 The audit suggests that
serious attention be given to the privatization of AGETIP. As to splitting AGETIP into different
units, the audit observes that managing social projects is different from delegated contract
management, and that these two functions should be separated.44
6.7     As to AGETIP procedures, the audit recommends that:
AGETIP' s monitoring be focused by reporting essentials rather than details, but that its
evaluation function be strengthened through statistical verification of survey proposals,
economic and social impact assessments of subprojects, and evaluation of permanent
employment impact;45  6
39. AGETIP's fee is not market based, and AGETIP has no competition. The fee level was determined on the basis of
actual cost experience with AGETIP 1.
40. PCR para. 35.
41. In fact it has all the characteristics of a GONGO (Govemment NGO).
42. A recent Intemal Audit Department (IAD) report on an audit of Portfolio Supervision of AGETIP projects notes
that "AGETIPs are effectively single sourced for their contract management functions on IDA-financed projects. As
the agencies mature and expand their scope of operations, this should be scrutinized and altematives which provide
completion to the agencies should be considered."
43. In their comments (annex E) the ADB notes that privatization might not be the best solution for two reasons: first,
fewer resouces might be allocated to target beneficiaries because of ambiguity between social orientation of AGETIP
projects and the private nature of AGETIP; second, AGETIP's monopoly over project management would probably
increase.
44. Whether or not this requires another agency is another matter. For example the microenterprise credit line financed
by the French is in fact managed by a largely independent unit under AGETIP.
45. The IAD report (mentioned in footnote 42) concludes that AGETIP projects have good output and efficiency
indicators, but recommends that this be supplemented by indicators of quality of output and that impact indicators need
to be indentified.



31
*   Maintenance plans be prepared for all completed of AGETIP subprojects;
*   AGETIP's appraisal process be improved with better economic analysis and expanded to
include social analysis;
*   AGETIP fee structure be to further investigated to determine its adequacy but, more
importantly, the applicability to other social funds.
46. Given the ILO's presence in Dakar, such employment impact evaluations could be done in partnership with it.






33                                  Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
SENEGAL PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2075-SE)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                      33.3           33.5              101.0
Credit amount                            20.0           22.1              110.0
Cofinancinga)                            8.0            10.0              125.0
Date physical components completed     06/30/92       08/30/93            148.0b)
Economic rate of return                  _C)            10-38d)
a) Other external resources were channeled through AGETIP after credit signing.
b) Periods calculated from date of signing.
c) Not calculated at appraisal.
d) For a sample of subprojects as calculated in the project completion report (PCR).
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY90           FY91            FY92         FY93
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          4.4             13.0           20.0
Actual (US$M)                      4.2             12.3           20.2         22.1
Actual as % of appraisal           96.0            95.0          101.0         110.0
Date of final disbursement: 11/17/93
Project Dates
Original                  Actual
Initiating memorandum                         -                       07/88
Negotiations                                 08/89                 07/18-21/89
Board approval                                -                      12/14/89
Signing                                                              01/23/90
Effectiveness                                 -                      03/07/90
Closing date                                10/31/92                 09/30/93



Annex A                                      34
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94    FY95                   Total
Preappraisal                18.6                                                                18.6
Appraisal                   13.0                                                                13.0
Negotiations                         12.1                                                       12.1
Supervision                           6.3      8.7     9.7      8.5      0.2                    33.4
PCR                                                                      4.2       1.8           6.5
Total                       31.6     18.4      8.7     9.7      8.5      4.4       1.8          83.6
Mission Data
Staff days
Date      No. of      in    Specializations Performance
(month/year) persons   field    representedit      ratingb)
Identification/       06/08        3         7    E, EA, FA
Preparation           11/88        3         8    E, FA
Appraisal             02/89        5         14    C, E, EA,
FA, L
Supervision 1         01/90        2         11    E,FA            1,1,1,1,1
Supervision 2         07/90        2         8    E, EA            1,2,1,2,1
Supervision 3         11/90        2         8    E, EA            1,1,2,1,1
Supervision 4         04/91        3         4    E, EA, FA        1,2,2,1,1
Supervision 5         10/91        4         9    E,EA,L,S         1,2,2,1,1
Supervision 6         07/92        2         5    E, EA            1,2,2,1,2
Supervision 7         10/92        3         5    DC, E, FA        1,1,1,1,1
Supervision 8        02/93d)       2         10    E, EA           1,1,1,1,1
Supervision 9        04/93)        2         5    E, EA            1,1,1,1,1
Supervision loc)     10/93d)       4         5    E, EA, L, S    1,1,1,1,1
a)  Specialization represented: C = Consultant; DC = Division Chief; E = Economist; EA = Engineer Advisor;
b) Performance Ratings (in respective order): Project Development Objectives; Implementation Progress;
c)  Project completion report (PCR) Mission
d) Together with supervision of AGETIP II



35                              Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: AGETIP
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                           Amount
Credit no.  (US$ million)    Board date
Second Public Works and Employment
Project                              2369         39.0         05/21/92



Annex A                                    36
Basic Data Sheet
SENEGAL SECOND PUBLIC WoRKs AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2369-SE)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Actual or       Actual as % of
Appraisal        current           appraisal
estimate       estimate)           estimate
Total project costs                        66.0            30.3               46.0
Credit amount                              39.0            38.2               98.0
Cofinancing                                15.0            11.0               73.0
Date physical components completed       12/30/95        12/30/96            129.0")
Economic rate of return                  10-38c)
a) Actuals as of mid 1996, except for credit amount (as of January 1997). Current estimates are that ultimate costs
and financing will be in line with appraisal estimates.
b) Period calculated from date of signing.
c)  For a sample of subprojects as calculated in the SAR.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY93          FY94          FY95         FY96        FY97
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        12.0          24.0          36.0         39.0
Actual (US$M)                    2.5           4.1           16.2         28.3        41.9)
Actual as % of appraisal         21.0          17.0          45.0         73.0        107.0
Date of final disbursement: 07/17/93a)
a) At that time an undisbursed balance of US$13.5 million remained.
b) Estimate.
Project Dates
Original                   Actual
Initiating memorandum                                                  03/19/91
Negotiations                                                          04/23-24/92
Board approval                                                         05/21/92
Signing                                         -                      07/31/92
Effectiveness                                10/31/92                  01/27/93
Closing date                                 06/30/96                  06/30/97



37                                         Annex A
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY92    FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96               Total
Preappraisal                  8.1                                               8.1
Appraisal                     0.7                                               0.7
Negotiations                  2.2                                                2.2
Supervision                             10.4     13.7      2.2      16.2
42.5
PCR
Total                         11.0      10.4     13.7      2.2      16.2       53.5
Mission Data
Staff days
Date        No. of        in      Specializations  Performance
(month/year)  persons    field         represented-)        ratingb)
Identificationc)     4/91           4          21        E,E,DC,EA              -
Preparation          10/91          1           6              E                -
Appraisal            1/92           3          33          E,DC,FA              -
Supervision 1        10/92          3          2          E,DC,FA               -  d)
Supervision 2       1/2/93          1          5               E            1,1,1,1,1e)
Supervision 3        4/93           1          4               E            1,1,1,1,1
Supervision 4        10/93          1          4               E            3,2,3,1,3Y
Supervision 5        2/94           4          16       E,FA,DC,EA               )
Supervision 6h)      1/95           1          4               E           U,U,3,1,2i)
Supervision 7        7/95           1          4               E            S,S,2,1,2
Supervision 80       2/96           4          40              E            S,S,2,1,lk)
Supervision 9        6/96           1          8               E            S,S,2,1,lk)
a)  Specializations represented: E=Economist; DC=Division Chief; FA=Financial Analyst; EA=Engineer.
b)  Performance Ratings (in respective order): Project Development Objectives; Implementation Progress;
Compliance with Legal Covenants; Project Management Performance; Availability of Funds. Four-point scale
rating. Later U=unsatisfactory; S=satisfactory.
c)  Together with mid-term review of AGETIP I.
d)  Focused on AGETIP 1, but also discussed effectiveness of AGETIP 11. No form 590 in the file for AGETIP 11.
e)  For preceding ratings compare with ratings for AGETIP I (see basic data sheet in Annex 1, table 1)
f)  Largely caused by the fact that government had not transmitted its counterpart funding.
g)  No form 950 in the files. The end of FY94 590 formn rates the project U,U,3,1,2.
h)  In between there had been missions in July and October 1994 by a procurement specialist to review progress with
the procurement reform component of the project.
i)  At this stage the Intemational Development Association (IDA) was close to deciding to suspend the credit, given
serious counterpart funding problems.
j)  Mid-term review.
k)  No form 590s in the files, but information obtained from divisional files.



Annex A                                 38
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: AGETIP
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                             Amount
Credit no.  (US$ million)   Board date
Urban Development and Decentralization
Progratna)
Programa)  -  -        early 1997
a) Under preparation.



39                                         Annex B
Table 1
AGETIP BUDGETS 1994-1996
1994              1995               1996
(CFAF)            (CFAF)             (CFAF)
I OPERATING                                                        __.
1. Expenses for premises
Renting of Agency's premises                                                24 150 000         21 930 000        21 930 000
Electricity                                                                  2 730 000         12 882 417        11 000 000
Telephone/Fax                                                                7 875 000         22 418 466        20 000 000
Mail                                                                           315 000           602 727
Communications                                                              10 500 000         14 332 500         5 000 000
Insurance                                                                    12 600 000        27 876 875
Fees
Accountants                                                               3 675 000          5 016 375        5 500 000
Consultants                                                              12 600 000        33 579 000        32 000 000
Building maintenance                                                      1 575 000          5 302 500        5 000 000
Office supplies                                                              18 900 000        42 071 682        67 000 000
Total 1 Expenses for premises                                      94 920 000        186 012 542      167 430 000
2. Compensation
Salaries                                                                   130 245 417        186 384 494       190 000 000
Allowances                                                                   12 600 000
Housing allowances                                                           6 300 000
Various costs                                                                6 825 000         19 029 285        22 000 000
Training allowances                                                          3 675 000          5 016 375         5 000 000
Special bonuses                                                              10 500 000        14 332 500        30 000 000
Medical insurance premiums                                                   3 675 000                           40 000 000
Total 2 Compensation                                              173 820 417       224 762 654       287 000 000
3. Travel                                                 l
Oil, Gas                                                                     4 200 000         14 298 917        19 000 000
Vehicle maintenance                                                          3 150 000         14 278 775        20 000 000
Insurance                                                                    4 410 000
Office equipment maintenance                                                 4 410 000          4 630 500         4 500 000
Subsistence                                                                  8 820 000         12 039 300       22 000 000
Depreciation                                                                26 250 000
Various contingencies                                                        5 124 000         36 619 901        30 000 000
Total 3 Travel                                                     56 364 000        81 867 393        95 500 000
TOTAL OPERATING                                                            325 104 417        492 642 589      549 930 000
II CAPITAL BUDGET
Office furniture                                                             7 000 000          1 750 000         7 000 000
Air-conditioning                                                             3 0o0000             500 000         3 000 000
Upgrading of rented premises                                                 10 000 000         3 000 000         3 000 000
Office equipment                                                             5 000 000          3 000 000         3 000 000
Vehicles                                                                     15 000 000          500000          30 000 000
Computer equipment                                                          10 000 000          4 000 000        20000 000
TOTAL CAPITAL BUDGET                                                        50000000           12 750000         66 000 000



BALANCE SHEETS OF AGETIP, 1991-1995
12/31/91             12/31/92              12/31/93              12/31/94              12/31/95
ASSETS
Intangible Fixed Assets                      22,152,005             6,818,951
(Net Book Value)
Fixed/Tangible Assets                        57,887,098            82,899,155            98,859,331            81,017,179            55,873,632
(Net Book Value)
Other Fixed Assets                           79,881,323            16,865,249             7,944,333             9,201,758            10,041,758
CWrrent Assets                                7,923,549            22,229,581            55,988,757           350,163,918          1,485,458,953
LiquiId Assets                             1,830,699,747        2,413,179,040         2,494,513,168          1,898,545,428        1,501,052,962
Subprojects Fi;1anced                      3,781,906,459        8,873,871,384        11,298,889,422         11,715,818,839       28,300,234,556
TOTAL ASSETS                               5,780,450,181        11,415,863,360        13,956,195,011        14,054,747,122        31,352,661,861
Grant Funds                               5,439,627,264        10,998,822,512        13,573,412,324         13,540,463,618       29,320,985,957
Amount Brought Forward                      130,643,632           186,652,653           130,643,632  -         22,407,221            92,046,841
Balance Due to Banks                          3,573,336             8,086,972            62,078,006           116,820,093           189,805,554
Other Short-term Debts                      224,191,138           265,001,005           209,201,924           352,839,219          1,399,271,860
Balance from Operating Statement             -17,585,189          -42,699,782            -19,140,875            67,031,413          350,551,649
TOTAL LIABILITIES                          5,780,450,181        11,415,863,360        13,956,195,011        14,054,747,122        31,352,661,861



41                                             Annex B
Table 3
AGETIP OPERATING STATEMENTS, 1991-1995
Balance 31/12/1991  Balance 31/12/1992  Balance 31/12/1993  Balance 31/12/1994  Balance 31/12/1995
EXPENSES
Office Supplies                               17,502,929          5,371,694          16,123,961         31,178,532         32,121,890
Materials and                                  7,409,361           2,781,971         28,048,523         14,489,534         18,506,824
Supplies used
Transport                                      3,563,015           1,300,925          6,666,940          2,143,600          5,798,800
Other Services                               147,153,602         47,499,717         155,729,821         63,028,636         92,409,265
Insurance and Sundry Expenses                 27,665,769          1,913,109         45,201,928          5,772,298         13,486,905
Personnel Costs                               195,770,458         75,423,956        145,177,163         91,401,537        146,065,747
Provision for Depreciation                    43,413,576             10,344          22,697,034         16,128,374         16,370,991
Disposals                                                            58,948
Interest on loans                              2,834,197                              2,147,995          5,461,301          4,199,165
TOTAL EXPENSES                               445,312,907         134,360,664       421,793,365         229,603,812        328,959,587
INCOMEE
Secondary products                             2,500,141           1,875,800        28,165,780           3,991,330          2,771,000
Payments for work                                                                    3,364,240         227,025,700        637,962.161
Penalties on Arrears                            5,339,578          4,398,884
Bank interest                                199,196,755         85,386,198         205,604,037         54,181,004         38,778,075
Operating subsidy                            220,691,244                            165,518,433
Adjustment of provision                                                                                 11,437,291
TOTAL INCOME                                 427,727,718         91,660,882        402,652,490         296,635,325        679,511,236
BALANCE OPERATIONS                         -  17,585,189      -  42,699,782      -  19,140,875          67,031,513        350,551,649
For 1991 and 1993 the accounts were prepared as of September 30.



Annex B                               42
Table 4
PROJECTS EXECUTED BY AGETIP
(AS OF MARCH 15, 1996)
NUMBER
PROJECTS
COMPLETED     PROJECTS         BEING
1- AGETIP I                              PROJECTS     UNDERWAY       CONSIDERED
1-1 BASIC AGETIP I PROGRAM
IDA                                         235
COUNTERPART FUNDING                         47
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (ADB)              82
CANADIAN CIDA                               12            5
WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (WFP)                   4
SUBTOTAL                                    380           5
1-2 OTHER DELEGATED CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
EUROPEAN UNION (EU)                         15
HRDP-EDUCATION IV                            7
HRDP-HEALTH                                 58            20
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT              20
SUBTOTAL                                    100                          1
TOTAL AGETIP I                              480           5              I
2-AGETIP II
2-1 BASIC AGETIP (II) PROGRAM
IDA (including contributions of municipalities)  56       157            96
COUNTERPART FUNDING                         19            20             7
CIDA 11                                     18            24             8
SPECIAL FUND (FRENCH)                       23            2
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM (EU)                      2            10
GERMAN KfW                                                18             26
SUBTOTAL                                    118          231             137
2-2 O.D.C.M. AGETIP II
HRDP-HEALTH                                  0                           4
HRDP-EDUCATION                              15           362
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                    I            I1
FRENCH SPECIAL PROGRAM                       1            2
ADB                                          1            5
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                        7            6
HRDP-WOMEN                                                4
HRDP-YOUTH
KfW EDUCATION                                             28
SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE
SUBTOTAL                                    25           418             5
TOTAL AGETIP 11                             143          649             142
3 OTHER PROJECTS MANAGED BY AGETIP
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT
MICRO-ENTERPRISE PROJECT
UNITED NATIONS EQUIPMENT FUND
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT
TOTAL 3
HRDP = HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



AGETIP I: GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF COMPLETED PROJECTS
Financial Sources
HRDP-        HRDP-        Agr. Ext.
Regions                IDA     Counterpartfunding      ADB         CIDA         WFP          EU         Education      Health       project'       Total
Dakar                  95              30                9           2           -           -             -             44            3             183
Theis                  38               2               23           -            1                        -              9            1              74
Diourbel                6              -                 4           2            1                         4             5            1              23
Kaolack                 12              3                1          -             I          -             -             -             1              18
Fatick                  14             -                 3           2           -            I            -             -             1              21
Louga                   6              -                17           -           -           -              3            -             4              30
St-Louis               23               1               15           6            1           3            -             -             5              54
Ziguinchor             22              10                5           -           -            4            -             -             1              42
Kolda                   10              1                3           -           -            7            -             -             2              23
Tambacounda             9              -                 2           -           -           -             -             -             1              12
Total                  235             47                82          12           4          15             7            58           20             480
ACETIP 11: GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF COMPLETED PROJECTS
Financial Sources
Regions               IDA         Counterpart                                        French    Urban                     Agr.       HRDP          Total
filnding        CIDA II    French       EU       Special   Project       ADB        Rsrch.     Educationi
Dakar                   18            8                1 3        14         1          1         1            1          3           15           75
Theis                    7            -                4           1         1         -          -           -           -           -            13
Diourbel                 5            -               -            I              -               -           -           2           -             8
Kaolack                  5             1              -            I         _         _          _           _          -            -             7
Fatick                  6             2               -            I         -         -          -           -          -            -             9
Louga                   6             -                 I          I         -         -         -            -          -            -             8
St-Louis                7             5               -            I         _         _          -           _           I           -            14
Ziguinchor               I            -               -            I         -         -          -           -          -            -             2
Kolda                    I             i              -            I         -         _          _           _           I           -             4
Tambacounda            -               2              -            I         -         -          -           -          -            -             3
Total                  56             19               18         23         2          1         1            1          7           15           143
,3>
1. For full titles see annex B, table 4.                                                                                                                           e 
u1w



FUNDING AND EMPLOYMENT CREATION                                                                o X
(AS OF MARCII 15, 1995)
COMMITMENTS  AMOUNT  SALARIES RATIO  EMI'LOYMENT CREATEDI
DISBURSED          PAID
I-AGETIP I                                                          (A)              (B)                NUMBER    PERSON           PERSON
(CFAF)             (CFAF)          (CFAF)        B/A    OF JOBS         DAYS        YEARS
1-1 BASIC AGETIIP I PROGRAM
IDA                                         4,574,350,569       4,568,012,557   1,309,443,700    29%      19,662      587,778        2,351
COUINTERPAR'F FUNDING                        1,587,301,782      1,507,300,282    412,176,776    27%       2,691        172,164        689
AFRIICAN DIEVELOPMENTR BANK                 2,807,611,854       2,514,044,674    586,754,940    23%       8,031       278,620        1,114
CANADIAN CIDA                                830,497,912        649,396,419      173,395,830    27%        1,736       57,870         231
WORLD FOOD PROGRA/MMIN                      1,250,000,000       1,250,000,000    418,520,000    33%       41,852      1,046,300      4,185
SUBTOTAL                                    11,049,762,117     10,488,753,932   2,900,291,246   28%       73,972      2,143,346      8,570
1-2 OTHER DELEGATED CONTRACT
1\1ANAGEMENT
EUROPEAN UNION                               277,216,888        277,216,868      65,607,600     24%        633         15,063         60
IIRDP-IIEALTII                              2,762,712,243       2,391,469,898    668,156,463    28%/o      78         268,761        1,075
I-IRDP-EDUCATION IV                          366,173,758        357,044,940      115,088,676    32%       1,315        38,638         155
AGRICULTURAI. EXTENSION PROJECT              154,819,564         138,873,648     44,766,029     32%        615         14,779          59
SuiTO'T'AL                                  3,560,922,453       3,164,605,354    893,618,768    28%       3,341       337,241        1,349
TOTAI. AGETII'                              14,610,684,570     13,653,359,286  3,793,910,014   28%        77,313     2,480,587       9,919
IlRDP=lluman Resotirces Development Plrogram



COMMITMENTS  AMOUNT  SALARIES RATIO  EMPLOYMENT CREATED
DISBURSED         PAID
2-AGETIP n                                                       (A)             (B)               NUMBER   PERSON    PERSON
(CFAF)            (CFAF)         (CFAF)        B/A    OF JOBS       DAYS        YEARS
2-1 BASIC AGETIP II PROGRAM
IDA (including contributions of           20,855,569,223     8,841,908,597   1,660,944,556    19%    20,267      656,831      2,627
municipalities)
COUNTERPART FUNDING                       2,128,851,587      974,535,738     235,091,976    24%      2,124       81,421        326
CIDA 11                                   4,438,782,548      2,891,054,600    556,971,372   19%      4,228       220,934       884
SPECIAL FUND (FRENCH)                     2,484,064,719      2,317,898,583    900,588,992    39%     14,810      389,702       1,559
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM (EU)                    700,437,121       283,308,964     103,345,328    36%       5,567      146,105       584
KfW                                       3,062,991,145       131,000,035    24,906,528     19%       211         6,437         26
SUBTOTAL                                  33,670,696,343    15,439,706,517  3,481,848,752   23%      47,207     1,501,430     6,006
2-2 O.D.C.M AGETIP II
HRDP-HEALTH                                659,092,350
HRDP-EDUCATION                            6,284,575,667      3,425,266,596    860,613,534    25%      8,596      290,067       1,160
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                 3,280,927,962      1,992,698,452    454,370,394    23%      1,650      67,850        271
FRENCH SPECIAL PROGRAM                     423,537,571        110,963,286    23,199,500     21%        50          839          3
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND                  1,061,402,257      566,887,880     130,844,433    23%       320        37,627        151
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                     1,134,978,148      712,844,625     188,683,044    26%       958        39,729        159
HRDP-WOMEN                                 888,458,187       242,677,730     38,587,313     16%        45        15,711         63
HRDP-YOUTH                                 227,269,157
KfW EDUCATION                             1,938,294,143      448,597,197     134,579,159    30%
SOCIAL SECURITY INSTITUTE                  499196200
SUBTOTAL                                  16,397,731,642    7,499,935,766   1,830,877,377   24%      11,619     451,823       1,807
TOTAL AGETIP II                           50,068,427,985    22,939,642,283   5,312,726,129   23%     58,826     1,953,253     7,813
0'>



COMMITMENTS  AMOUNT  SALARIES RATIO  EMPLOYMENT CREATED
DISBURSED       PAID
(A)          (B)             NUMBER  PERSON    PERSON
(CFAF)          (CFAF)       (CFAF)      B/A   OF JOBS    DAYS         YEARS
TOTAL AGETIP I AND AGETIP II         64,679,112,555    36,593,001,569  9,106,636,143  25%  93,587   3,386,926   13,548
OTHER PROJECTS MANAGED                  TOTAL
BY AGETIP                     COMMITMENTS
COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT               1,675,296,670
MICRO-ENTERPRISE PROJECT                   959,532,000
UNITED NATIONS EQUIPMENT FUND              380,139,475
PILOT FEMALE LITERACY PROJECT              280,000,000
SUBTOTAL                                 3,294,986,145
TOTAL                                   67, 974,080,700



47                                           Annex C
AGETIP PROJECTS IN AFRICA
A. MEMBERSHIP IN AFRICATIP'
(a) Members2
World Bank activities
Credit Amount
Country               Agency           Credit Number3          (US$ million)              Observations
1. Benin              AGETUR                      Cr 2338               22.84
2. Burkina Faso        FASO BARRA                *Cr 2282               20.00
3. Chad                ATETIP                    *Cr 2614               17.40            appraised
4. Central African     AFRACOM                      -                     -
Republic
5. Congo              ARETIP                        -                     -              identified
6. Gambia              GAMWORKS                   *Cr2554               11.00
7. Guinea             AGECO                                               -             discontinued
8. Guinea Bissau       AGEOPPE                    *Cr 2748              22.00            under preparation
9. Madagascar         AGETIPPA                    *Cr 2591              18.30
10. Mali              AGETIPE                    *Cr 2371               30.004          second under preparation
11. Mauritania        AMEXTIPE                   *Cr 2455               12.00           second under preparation
12. Niger             NIGITIP                    *Cr 2209               30.003
13. Senegal           AGETIP                     *Cr2075                22.00
*Cr 2369              39.00           third under preparation
14 .Togo              AGETUR                      Cr 2620               26.20
(b) Potential Memberss
1. Burundi
2. Cameroon
3. Cape Verde
4. C6te d'lvoire
5. Gabon
6. Malawi
7. Mozambique
8. Sao Tome
9. Zambia
1. AFRICATIP Association Reigionale des Agences d 'Execution des Travaux d 'Interet Public (established in
Ouagadougou on January 21, 1993).
2. As of June 30, 1996.
3. Those with * are listed as AGETIPs in the recent Social Fund Portfolio review (March 1997)
4. A supplementary credit was subsequently approved for these projects.
5. Haiti is an observer. However, the Haiti project (Cr. 2765) cannot be regarded as an AGETIP type project.






49                                 Annex D
List of Main Documents
AGETIP. 1996a. Etude d 'impact sur 1 'environnement des project A GETIP. Final Report.
. 1996b. Etude d 'impact sur les PME (Petits et moyen entreprises) de l 'industrie de la
construction au Senegal. Final Report.
. 1996c. Mieux construire, manuel de construction a I 'usage des petite a moyennes
entreprise et des artisans du bdtiment. 2 volumes. Dakar.
. 1996d. Rapport d'achevement de Project. Final Report.
. 1996e. Rapport d 'activites.
AGETIP / KfW. 1996. Promotion desfemmes. Evaluation des effets du programme de travaux
d'interet public pour emploi sur la situation desfemmes au Senegal. Report of the Second
Consulting Mission.
Egger, Philippe. 1992. Travaux publics et emploi pour les jeunes travailleurs dans une &onomie
sous ajustement: 1 'exp&rience de l 'AGETIP au Senegal. ILO Occasional Paper 2. Geneva:
International Labor Organization.
GIE ALPHA INTERNATIONAL. 1996. Etude sur la participation communal A GETIP. Final
Report.
Graham, Carol. 1992. "The Politics of Protecting the Poor During Adjustment: the Vocal versus
the Needy in Senegal." Foreign Policies Studies Program. Washington D.C.: The Brookings
Institution. Draft.
ILO (International Labor Organization). 1996. Document de formulation d 'un programme
d 'appui aux investissements intensifs en emplois et au developpement du secteurprive en
Afriquefrancophone. Second Version. Geneva.
SENECI. 1996a. Etude bilan et perspectives AGETIP Phase II. Final Report.
1996b. Etude d'impact sur 1'environnement des projets A GETIP. Final Report.
World Bank. 1989a. "Republic of Senegal Public Works Employment Project." President's
Report 5130-SE. Washington, D.C.
. 1989b. "Senegal, Public Works and Employment Project." Staff Appraisal Report 8032-
SE. Washington, D.C.
. 1992a. "Republic of Senegal Second Public Works and Employment Project."
President's Report P-5741-SE. Washington, D.C.
. 1992b. "Senegal, Second Public Works and Employment Project." Staff Appraisal
Report 10421-SE. Washington, D.C.



Annex D                                 50
. 1995. "Senegal, Public Works and Employment Project (AGETIP)." Project Completion
Report 15166. Washington, D.C.
. 1996a. Projets de developpement urbain en Afriquefrancophone, un agenda pour le
futur. Document AF5IN. Washington, D.C.
1996b. "Success Stories in West Africa: Delegated Contract Management for Public
Works in Senegal and Other African Countries." Draft Working Paper. Washington, D.C.
. 1997a. "Portfolio Improvement Program: Review of the Social Funds Portfolio." Final
Report. Washington, D.C.
. 1997b. "Report on an Audit of Portfolio Supervision of AGETIP Projects." Draft.
Washington, D.C.



51                      Annex E
FAX MESSAGE FROM AGETIP
(CONFIRMED BY ALL-IN-ONE EM)
ATTENTION:         MR. ROGER SLADE
OEDDI
WORLD BANK-WASHINGTON
CC:                MR. ROBERT VAN DER LUGT
SENEGAL FILES MANAGER
AFRICA ISC FILES
FROM:              MAGATTE WADE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
AGETIP DAKAR
DATE:             JANUARY 21, 1997
RE:                COMMENTS ON THE PERFORMANCE AUDIT
REPORT OF CREDITS 2075-SE AND 2369-SE



Annex E                                     52
A-COMMENTS ON THE FORM OF THE REPORT
(1)     Page ii:
The names of the Senegalese nationals who participated in the Beneficiary             Corrected.
Assessment are as follows: S6lle NDIAYE and Moussa GUEYE.
(2)     Page 1, point 1.2:
Replace in with en.                                                                   Typo in French
version corrected.
(3)     Page 4, first paragraph:
The Agency also helped establish the Private Sector Foundation and is currently    Information added
assisting with the institutional establishment of the Program of Support for                  infoolnote.
Municipalities.
(4)     Page 5, point 2.1:
The IDA credits were granted to the Government of Senegal, not to AGETIP.l            French verdon
corrected.
(5)     Page 8, points 3.4 and 3.5:
Replace annees de travail with Hommes XAn.2                                           French version
corrected.
(6)     Annex C:
Point 13 refers to AGETIP I and point 14 refers to AGETIP II. It should also be    Correction nade.
made clear that the amounts are expressed in US dollars.
B-COMMENTS ON THE CONTENT OF THE REPORT
(1)     The "Concept of Sustainability":
We recognize that this is an important concept, and one which concerns us all.   The concept of
Nevertheless, we  should  agree  on  the  criteria  to  be  applied  when  evaluating    sustainability is
sustainability in the context of AGETIP. If community participation is a factor that   well understoodb at
strongly suggests that a project will be sustainable, we should remember that when the    the time of
AGETIP project was formulated, the following were identified as the beneficiaries: the    evaluation that the
entire population (which was to benefit from  improved drainage, hygiene, and roads),   benefits and
operators of small enterprises and small-scale contractors, municipalities (which benefit   achievements that
from the capital investment made under the project), and implementing agencies.               are generated or
expected to be
generated by the
project can be
1. TRANSLATOR'S NOTE: The English-language text states "IDA has supported AGETIP. . .," whereas in French
the expression used is a accorde ("granted to AGETIP. . .").
2. TRANSLATOR'S NOTE: A reference to the rendering of "person-years" in the French-language version of the
text.



53                                       Annex E
maintained. The
discussion of
sustainability in the
audit is based on
this definition.
Consequently, it is not possible to gain a true overall view of the effect of the     Correct. However
AGETIP project by underestimating its impact on one of the above groups of                    there is only one
beneficiaries and disregarding its effects on the other three.                                sustainability
rating that covers
the whole project.
Consequently the
sustainability of the
various project
outcomes need to
be weighed to
arrive at a
composite rating.
Clearly in any
assessment the
sustainability of the
investments created
is an important
element.
In the project submission procedure specified in the Agency's Procedures               We know that the
Manual (which-it should be recalled-forms one of the Schedules to the Credit                  Procedures Manutal
Agreement signed by the Government of Senegal and IDA), a "beneficiary" is defined as    "benefisciare" in a
any institution or public local authority that is the official owner of works undertaken by   very specific sense,
the Agency. With the beneficiaries thus defined, applications approved by Municipal           namely as the
Councils are submitted to the Agency on behalf of local communities by the local              owner of the works
authorities, whose representatives are indeed ELECTED by those communities. The               However,
"beneficiary'" in
local authorities (which are, therefore, the beneficiaries, having entered into agreements    conventional
to delegate their project ownership responsibilities to AGETIP) show their commitment         terminology has a
in concrete form by providing counterpart funds for project implementation. The               somewhat different
Councils also approve maintenance budgets for the works.                                      meaning. The
municipality might
be the legal owner
of say a health
clinic or sewage
system, but it is the
people who are the
beneficiaries.
The budget law provides that, under the AGETIP program, no mayor is entitled          There is no
to select a particular project and assign resources to it without the agreement of the        disagreement The
Municipal Council, whose vote constitutes a seal of approval from the community it            fact that AGETIP's
mandate is limited,
represents. This is why AGETIP can accept as priorities only those projects backed by a       mainly to
Municipal Council. IT IS THEREFORE NO PART OF AGETIP'S FUNCTION TO                            execution, is
INTERFERE IN THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND                                   clearly recognized
COMMUNITIES DURING THE PROCESS OF PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND                                  in the audit (for
PRIORITIZATION. Nevertheless, AGETIP has always been careful to conduct a                     and 6.3) But that
program of consciousness-raising among final beneficiaries, the purpose being to secure       does not
their commitment to, and participation in, project implementation. In doing so, the           necessarily negate
Agency has used the services of certain NGOs and local associations. In some cases, it       the conclusion that
has helped establish local organizations for managing the projects.                           ways and means
need to be found to



Annex E                                    54
increase
beneficiary
participation and
that capacity
building at the
municipall
community level-
need furtner
support.
(2)     AGETIP Involvement in the Literacy Project:
AGETIP did not ask to be given management of this project, and became                The audit (par 1.9)
involved because of the wishes of both the Government of Senegal and the World Bank          does not speculate
(refer to Ms. Rosemary Bellew, Task Manager for the project). The Agency's role was          if AGETIP asked or
restricted to the management of the funds and of the operators' contracts, since the         did not ask to be
technical aspects were the responsibility of the particular ministry concerned with          given management
responsibility for
literacy campaigns.                                                                         the Literacy
Project. The audit
simply notes, as is
also stated in this
observation, that
AGETIP manages
this project.
(3)     Page 6,3 footnote:
It must be made clear that AGETIP does not have a commercial purpose, but   Observation added
instead implements projects at the behest of the Government or the local authorities. It   to footnote.
does not make a profit. Once its operating costs have been covered, any surplus is
completely reinvested in social projects. Its 5% rate of return is unequaled by any other
agency or NGO operating locally.
(4)     Page 9, para. 3.6:
Your analysis of employment created  vis-a-vis  employment expected  at   Observation added.
appraisal does not take account of an important event that occurred during AGETIP II;   But it should also
i.e. devaluation. The result of this was that construction costs increased by about 60%,   be noted that as a
whereas labor increased by only 20%.                                                         result of the
devaluation the
CFAF value
foreign-exchange-
denominated
credits increased
substantially.
(5)     Page 8, para. 3.5:
The total cost of subprojects completed under AGETIP I and II was CFAF 36.5    Corrected.
billion (see Annex B, Table 5, page 3 of 3).
3. TRANSLATOR'S NOTE: Different page in the English-language version.



55                          Annex E
Sincerely.
CC: ROBERT VAN DER LUGT
CC: SENEGAL FILES MANAGER
CC: AFRICA ISC FILES



Annex E                        56
FAX MESSAGE FROM AGETIP
(CONFIRMED BY ALL-IN-ONE EM)
ATTENTION:             LESLIE PEAN
MAX PULGAR-VIDAL
ROBERT VAN DER LUGT
PETER WATSON
ALBERTO HARTH
CC:                    JEAN-LOUIS SARBIB
MAHMOOD AYUB
ROGER SLADE
FROM:                  Mr. MAGATTE WADE,
DIRECTOR GENERAL,
AGETIP, DAKAR, SENEGAL
DATE:                  FEBRUARY 3,1997
RE:                    SENEGAL AGETIP I AND II: REGIONAL
COMMENTS ON DRAFT PAR
I am pleased to send you our comments (forwarded by EM) on the memorandum by Mr.
Robert van der Lugt, dated January 23, 1997, and attach a table with AGETIP's achievements.
Sincerely.



57                                       Annex E
The IDA sent us a copy of a memorandum by Mr. Robert van der Lugt dated             It should be noted that this
January 23, 1997, and addressed to Mr. Max B. Pulgar-Vidal (through Roger Slade,             was an internal memo that
Chief, OEDDI).                                                                              aimed to address a number
of specific concerns that
had been raised by Bank
operational staff It was
not a self-standing
document composed for
outside circulation.
We do not consider that the audit mission had enough time to evaluate a             As the audit has clearly
representative sample of the works carried out by the Agency. For clarification, I am        indicated (par. 4.4) the
about to fax to you a list of the Agency's physical achievements.                            beneficpary assessment was
not representative in a
statistical sense. However,
it was solidly grounded in
the rapid rural
methodologies that are
used in these assessments.
As such its conclusions are
valid. Also, a number of
focus groups provided
further evidence about
donor and A GETIP staff
perceptions.
I wish to point out that, to ensure that such works are of sound quality, all the   The audit did not express
Agency's subprojects since 1991 have been submitted to a "quality-based approach"            any doubt that A GETIP
(approche qualite) consisting of the following components:                                   continues to improve its
,nrocedures to ensure good
quality at exit, when the
investments are handed
back to the owner (or
"beneficiare" in AGETIP
terminology).
-   Supervision of works by an engineer (Chef de Projets);
- technical studies and monitoring by a qualified engineer or an architect (maitre
d'oeuvre);
- technical quality control by independent firms of international repute;
- ten-year insurance cover on all new construction.
Since the First Human Resources Development Project (which included                 This performance audit
construction of 60 health posts), the Agency has attempted to establish standards for the    does not evaluate the First
design of social infrastructure (e.g. health posts, schools, electric power installations,   Human Resources
social centers, sports facilities, etc.), so as to guarantee quality at lowest cost, and
minimize maintenance costs.
Obviously, some of the 623 completed subprojects (which are spread over
1,077 different sites) have not always produced the intended results, but these constitute
a minute portion of the whole, and most of them date from the time before our "quality-



Annex E                                    58
based approach" was introduced; i.e. the very earliest days of the Agency.
With respect to the road projects referred to by Mr. Robert van der Lugt, it       Most of the road
should be emphasized that most urban streets in secondary towns were constructed           construction in Dakar was
through AGETIP, and that currently these show no operating defects arising from            financed under urban
projects, rather than
design or implementation. In Dakar, most of the newly constructed or rehabilitated         AGETIP I and 11. Again,
streets were executed by AGETIP. For example the roads in the center of the city were    the evaluation of these
completely rehabilitated by the Agency and don't show any defects as can easily be         urban projects was not
observed except for those in Medina, where the Agency experimented with an entirely        part of the audit.
new procedure ("consolid") to provide protection against flooding; however, this was
not satisfactory. This project has not yet been accepted by the owner, and the enterprise
is redoing the work. At the time in question, a memorandum on the subject was sent to
Mr. Henault.
It should also be stressed that the quality of a project must be judged on the
basis of its original objectives.
Some road projects may consist only of repairs (patching) so as to fill potholes,    The fact that AGETIP is
perform spot improvement, etc. Such operations are provided for in the Agency's            less, or no longer involved
manual and are detailed in the report produced by the French firm OTUI, which              in the hiaintenance and
'            ~~~~~rehabillation business
prepared the feasibility study for the AGETIP project. They are repetitive in nature,      does not make the
needing to be carried out every year. The Agency implemented many such projects            maintenance issue
during its Phase I. Nevertheless, because it is impossible for either the Agency or the    disappear. It might not be
beneficiaries to guarantee that such operations will be repeated annually, the Agency      in the mandate ofAGETIP;
it might not be done by
undertakes increasingly fewer projects involving routine maintenance. The same IS true    A GE TIP, but if it is not
of certain projects involving routine maintenance in the form of minor rehabilitation of    done (by owners and/or
facilities (e.g. painting, repairs to points of access, locks and other metal work, etc.).  beneficiaries)
These projects cost from CFAF 10,000 to CFAF 15,000 per m , whereas major                  sustainability suffer.
rehabilitation would cost between four and six times more. It is quite evident that such
projects can give an impression of poor implementation if there is no follow-up.
The Agency accepts such operations less and less, because they involve routine    True, but the beneficiary
maintenance, which can be carried out by the beneficiaries themselves, using their own     assessment is clear on this
budgets. This decision is in accord with Mr. van der Lugt's concern regarding              point as well. "All ofthe
municipal representatives
sustainability. However, it should be emphasized that such subprojects do generate a       encountered consider
considerable number of jobs, and that is why they are in the forefront of eligible         maintenance of
projects.                                                                                  infrastructure and services
to be diffcult. Main causes
relate to lack offinancial
resources and a weak
sense of ownership for
A GE TIP projects. "
One must also avoid falling into the trap of assuming that work performed by       There is no such statement
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) is inevitably of inferior quality. It should be        in the audit. In fact as
noted that, when the Agency was launched, the large enterprises in Senegal took it for     (par. 38) most contracts
granted that SMEs would not be capable of executing these works, but they have             are small and executed by
changed their opinion, and these SMEs now participate in most tenders done by the          SMEs.
Agency, and they execute a large part of the works.



59                                      Annex E
Finally, as a further means of guaranteeing the quality of works, the Agency      Agreed, and this is
regularly arranges for an external technical audit.                                       regarded as best practice
by the Bank's Internal
Audit Department, despite
The main conclusions of the latest technical audit report (January 1997) are      thefact that they have
given below.                                                                              made some suggestions to
even further improve
Overall, this technical audit concludes that AGETIP works were performed          audits.
satisfactorily and in accordance with established professional standards. There was also
broad compliance with selection and procurement procedures.
The following are the main recommendations for improving the Agency's
performance:
Studies should be better coordinated, with involvement of the Quality Control
Firms (Bureau de Controle) from the preliminary-design stage, so as to avoid the
introduction of any changes subsequent to issuance of the invitation to bid, since these
could lead to the sort of cost increases that the Agency, for reasons of transparency,
usually refuses to accept.
- Problems can arise with sites for new construction work (e.g. litigation over
ownership, last-minute changes, etc.), and the availability of a site must therefore be
ascertained before an invitation to bid is issued.
- When access to a project is difficult, attempts should be made to use local materials
to a greater degree, so as to minimize costs and enable enterprises to obtain larger profit
margins.
- The system for paying for supervising engineers (maitres d'oeuvre) should be made
more flexible, so as to take account of the breadth of their responsibilities; however, a
system of sanctions or penalties should also be applied if they are responsible for
mistakes arising in studies or monitoring.
- Implementation timing should be revised as it is often underestimated and should
take account of the size of the enterprises.
- The Procedures Manual should be updated to take account of changes in the
Agency's activities.
While we are aware that the Agency must make further progress in order to         As we have indicated in
satisfy more fully the social infrastructure needs of local communities, we nevertheless  OED 's written response to
believe that we have accomplished much (while keeping in mind considerations of           dated  mebruary 12( 1997),
quality and cost-saving), that Mr. van der Lugt's comment in point 6 of his               the audit has concluded
memorandum in no way reflects the facts, and that the "SUSTAINABILITY" rating of    that A GETIP is a great
"UNCERTAIN" given these earlier explanations should be changed to "LIKELY."               success. But quality at exit
should not be confused
with sustainability. With
perhaps afew exceptions,
quality at exit seems very
good. But it is the
subsequent operation and
maintenance phase that



Annex E                                     60
influences sustainability,
even ifit is no longer
under the control and
mandate ofAGETIP.
Despite plans for future
improvements in these
areas there is still reason
for concern here, given the
status ofmunicipalfunding
and the conclusions from
the beneficiary assessment.
The audit therefore
concluded not that
sustainability is unlikely
but that is it uncertain.
However, AGETIPPs
reservations have also
been reflected in the main
text of the audit report.
By way of illustration, and in order to enable us to adopt the necessary
corrective measures, we would like to be provided with a list of the defects referred to
in point 6 of the memorandum. I feel sure that these would be insignificant in quantity
compared with our achievements.
-N.B.: These remarks complement my EM of January 21, 1997 (10.28 AM) to Mr.                   These are in the preceding
Roger Slade.                                                                                  pages of this annex.



61                       Annex E
AGEflP
MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS
(Implemented or planned; up to 1998)
1,800     Classrooms constructed
1,380     Classrooms rehabilitated
105       Health posts, clinics and maternity centers constructed and
rehabilitated
7         Hospital services rehabilitated
327 km    Highways and roads constructed, rehabilitated and
developed
180 km    Open and closed conduits constructed and rehabilitated
45        Women's Centers (foyers ou maisons de lafemme)
constructed
60,000 m3 per month of waste collected in 20 municipalities,
as a service for about 2 million people
90 km     Street lighting provided
20        Sports facilities, with stands, constructed
60        Sociocultural and youth facilities constructed and
rehabilitated



Annex E                                   62
G.M.B. Kariisa
Director,
Operations Evaluation
Department
African Development Bank
01 B.P. 1387 Abidjan 01
Cote d'Ivoire
fax: (255) 20-59-87
December 26, 1997
Mr. Roger Slade
Chief, Agriculture and Human Development Division
Operations Evaluation Department
Washington, D.C. USA
Fax: 202-477-6391
RE: SENEGAI-AGETIP: PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
Mr. Slade,
Thank you for the PAR on the AGETIP I and II projects in Senegal. Our
observations are as follows:
I1.    The report is concise and well written. It would, however, gain in clarity if the  The evaluation
evaluation methodology were clearly set out.                                              methodology is explained
in the preface andfurther
elaborated with regard to
the beneficiary assessment
in paras. 4.4 and 4.5 of the
audit. Thefull beneficiary
assessment "A GETIP du
point du vue des
beneficiares, " available
upon requestfrom OED,
presentsfull details.
2.      The PAR should also have analyzed the projects' impact on women and the           Audits are selective, and
environme*t,                                                                           duplication should be
avoided. A special study
on environmental impact
was commissioned by
AGETIP and thefinal
report issued in May 1996.
KfWfinanced a special
study on the impact of the
A GETIP program on
women in development
issues (January 1996).



63                                       Annex E
3.      The African Development Bank did not contribute US$8 million to AGETIP I.             Correction made.
Rather, the African Development Fund provided some US$ 10 million (8 million UCP)
in 1990 as part of the structural adjustment program it financed in Senegal in 1993. The
loan was fully disbursed in 1993.
4.      Given the social orientation of AGETIP projects, an analysis of AGETIP                AGETIP has executed
subprojects by sector would provide information on the share of available resources           many projects, including
actually allocated to the social sector.                                                      health, education, and
literacy projects. But
AGETIPI & H1did not
cover social sectors to a
large extent. They mainly
funded urban works and
services (audit box 2.1).
5.      Evaluating the relevance and the achievement of the objectives of AGETIP I            As noted in the audit,
and II in terms of person/years of employment is not enough. The creation of permanent    impact evaluation is a
jobs should also be analyzed, along with the general socio-economic impact of the              weakness, and therefore
the audit recommends in
projects.                                                                                     par. 6.7 that AGETIP s
evaluation function be
6.      AGETIP does not seem to have a subproject monitoring unit. If this is so, then        strengthened, economic
this lack should be highlighted in the report, with an appropriate recommendation.            and social assessments of
subprojects be undertaken,
as well as impact
evaluations of permanent
employment. As noted in
the audit and confirmed in
an internal audit report
output and efficiency
indicators are excellent.
7.      The PAR's suggestion that AGETIP be privatized is not necessarily the best            Observation added to
solution for the future, for two reasons: first, fewer resources might be allocated to        report in a footnote.
target beneficiaries because of the ambiguity between the social orientation of AGETIP
projects and the private nature of AGETIP; second, AGETIP's monopoly over project
management would probably increase.
8.      The report should contain a summary, conclusion, lessons to be drawn and              OED audit reports have
recommendations.                                                                              been reformatted to make
them much shorter and
more concise. The
summary will be the
transmittal memorandum
of the Director General,
and this will include the
lessons and
recommendations.
9.      The report should be checked by a French speaker to correct the accents on the        Responsibility of the
French names appearing in it.                                                                 translation department.
10.    Other, more pertinent comments could be added to the above when the African            Thank you.
Development Fund has prepared its Audit Report on AGETIP's performnance.
We hope that you find these comments useful.
Yours sincerely,
/s/ illegible for G.M.B. KARIIS
Director, Operations Evaluation Department



Annex E                              64
K   W  El'  Kreditanstalt
K M    fur Wiederaufbaru
Fs-stfach 1 ' 11 41
60046 Frankfurt am Afain
TELEFAX    -    TELEFAX    -   TELEFAX    -    TELEFAX
Telefax number: 001-202-477 63'91                   o.in esa:    Mvr. Twerenrbcid-Wippermann
,vr ref.:       Twe/Lhy
The World Bank                                       elecn:         ^54e
Operations Evaluaticn Depart-ment                    fat!:          January 7, 1SC7
Agricullture and H:uman Develcpment Division
NM. Rcger Slade
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S.A.
Lllc.'1 -   Financial Cooceraticn with SENEGAL
Fublic W';or's and Employment Prc3ect (CG ETIP)
[Dr-ft Performance Audit Recor-t
De^ar Mr. Siade,
T  ar-,n yo v ver   mu;Ch for sending us 't-he dralf pe-ormrnca EudIt reoor, a,r the ,rst and seconrd
fu_lic 1hcnk ;- a,d E,'mpIloyme nt Frc --ts (A C-- T i? I and A.:GET?I Ii) for cur cm.m,ments.
Due to CG l.Stmas hoidcays arn  sunervisiOn missicns we   LMCe, u,fc,Unt e!y. T.t a=le tc letyCU
ha/ oe ur comantsb ty Decerber 25, 1S I . Nevertheess, we ,cce uney wi;ll be usEsfuL ,cr tie
fInl-2 repor.
-inos MIr chn 'I 9, thGe a-ernan Financ,-a! Cc cera'-cn has -sen par<oa;pa ing ir, the Sencnd
Fubiic Vwcr,-;s and Err^icyment Pr-]ezt (A GTIP H1) wi. a, amcumt of DM 20 millicn. T re Prc-
je-t c_cr-.ses three ccrnpcnen:s: T he most irnpcrtant cre ts "he la_cr-intensive ccrstructicn
a-Id rehazili -_ n c1 urba,n pbl,c ork<s. T he seccnd cne e.czmpasses construction act ivites
for vimen's economic proctc cn. T-he thir-d compcent inzc_des the water program v,r-in t.he
c cmu r-,.: r,ut7f tion pr oec-t.



65                                      Annex E
Ocx Lz-t-ff^Cae  Z=^e:flc~   w Si',- ;,i ;AGZTV l-r5: c:V- C        t., r-   'e_:c2It;h   pThl '_nce
a,-:  ret    r A:  GE-2 T i   ES   c    a- ts  e    ,e 7*  r- -e   ' a c rn  7er,2C      7,         r e7
zE--irnln  sts er .,      *Uc '-.C '.-';s  ~r-_, cn~  E,rn':y   har,  .-s ._en c-ec  ~JbS''t-n:o. --aj n
tne ir,s:;. C_! c                v,-.- is s
- CenenaVs co. s;,ructon  ir'2st7 25_ -=-l :-_........          .     ..     .    .       ................ - --.e E.- .~. , ~: ~ t r -..  - I  i-
-  AGECTI.-'s  h_c  amet ex_:   nce  ,as l- ' ^ r_forn. c. '--.r-:en' _c rna..-,
,crccec  c    y e  "-s
-    AGET i.- co zeCach h2as been: re  Co:ed W            ' s:E  tfa  er %a' ae  seCani  as eS-
tanrce in many otn~er c_r_jn:.nes ir 2,;E
Furh.ermcre, wve c_,,',rr, as we!_l t,-a' coeratonL- E.-C rr.ml-lWe ce (O&2;s 1$$2es a,mc '.l; ce-
c~ zenciat-' p~rtccatc~  in  rc ect t=11-~;-2:, E7  ::-Ecara tc: slh:u!t b-e im :Drc1:-
'c.  !=,e,.r    .. .a  r      r  - Cc.n ..-r.E-     _''c,,S;_i   ei-.;^P6 
; zc<^~lice;i-r i^- ,~  C- rCa=,e.^,eE_C- , ,    ^ Ii;'   E   ae
in.e e~ze-e.,ze ,i, Sen,eoai Erlc _',c ,_\A'c::A.9 ';a.-. c^eis r=  o.a:: g t;ne,A-_Ti? a--z-oc,,
r,_.es a-_ n-eee- tZor,- enc  :r. -SEn~Se C,' c;      r    --  c.e,e.,>, >b  >;&-!-GZ~t
.o-z e  os  .     . --mno  Si aozztr.:_ er Crw-                          ,-e
@_.-              ir;F-F V <.s  .l_.- :.--                                i- r_lt.u t^.=a E ,_ _E  n?vl _E,-es-,
cA -2ar: in t Py : ra,-,;   2Uka    co.n  C. C7, :               eo22aO2:nPrjc:  n
M.,_ ;,ai i,n  Marhni)  ar s                                 T l .,s
VVe .Ysh to             ."frn  ~:at    ~ c   nnwn .:A'>~hrsrCC0   n
ce^a. ,.en: Sen~<asc, .M- i -c lian.-Ei^- ,-e- '.'-.:~   7, =_._ci- is T a:'r Mancoer c.
AE-_ Ti' prc,ects in tn;.ese t-'-ee c-'-'-
Loo:< .g fon*v--d t_- rereiv   .e;,,a re:,--c., *ez_.
ycurs sincer.',,
K:r .  AN  S TALT F                     L_ ., _J
<                      l  -'',.ro/                            -






F -,        I - -       ALGERIA                              16'                            15t 4'                                                         13                             12'
Sp-eh                   ALGERIA
M A U R I T A N I A                                                        SENEGAL
-'-MAURITANIA i    '\'.                                                                  e,sodoAGETIP COMPLETED
N:v:Lcla90       j   ~~~M A L I    rRso  _                                                                                                       
~~  ~~~    ~~~. ~PROJECTS
D:k:r  \   sv-_  _ L7  T:mbNucl: jG                                 lichollS                           H.&6                                                              FIRST YEAR
G T.1    *        , .Eo       ,ka .                        /                                                                                                                          TARGET CITIES
GUItOA. /  G                             _                              '-                                                                                                  5 4    AGETIP I COMPLETED
a's      J'                      -lh  f,                                                                                           olyoAGETIP 1I COMPLETED
Thil.eogoe     \                     0      SELECTED TOWNS
Nd7 e  mc!l6                                                                                                                             REGION CAPITALS
Gandiot                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
Loug    0 Niomre    Mbeule                                                             Our. SMatmr                             RAILROADS
REGION BOUNDARIES.--.-,'
INTERNATIONAL         (
vfKe6  mer             ~                Li.9u6,.                   R..6r.ou                                 t              6BOUNDARIES         j
khi             Dwro           30_                                                                                              
15'                                            gir6avrey           oM.usti                                                               5F-
A   OTlvqouane   oNdindi   T6Tl                                                                                                                          _
=t~~~~ 23'                                                                                
DAKA       Ru isque                     Diour                 . 0 Koloa6ne
3          ombor                                                                                                                 T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kdr    Kayes
50kone         ~N,oro du Rip,.  f.                                                  Tabooo
1 8  P.ya,                                                        KiJi0- 
BANJUL              T    E.J                                                  .                                                               12 .
GAMBIA f~                                                    *-.~                   M>imo                   OGamon                                  to
Mb-3                  _                                                               Vel,groo             TGobtrs                                                   0 
2 -k  >  ~4 2                                 Koldai  '6                                                                           Mooo mScuroy
BFgnono0         EMorsossouti
JSedho                   _           -           -        -        -r--.                                         KAdoKgoo             Nolodt o
ZiguinchU   _ K,,
._r                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.)'.-
ir7n                                                            ~~~~~~~GUINEA - BISSAU                                                                    G U IN EA                                           _
i-12                                                                                                                                       s-.           Thn snaop wsas prepored by the Mop Vnet of tbe World Bonh          12-c
0             50 SO100                                                                                                                           The boundaries, color5, denosinotsons and ony other ,nforattuon   I
rne                                                                                                                                                         show-n on tIns mop do not snply on the port of The Wodld Booh Group,   ao
_             ~~~~KtLOMETERS                                                                                                                *          any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement  >
a                                       1                              1-                                                                       I 14    J  or acceptance of such bosodarseT          12- 2
-a  t7'                       15'                             15-                            '        -a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G..






IBRD 28177
GOC                TUNISIA
~~ ~ ~ 1       ALGERIA        1LIBYA                   |ARAB REP
Former 1-               <                         | ~~~~~~~~OF EGYPT
MAURITANIA                                        J
| MALI              NIGER       5<
CAPE                                                                       CHAD
VERDE                                                                                                          ITA
THE GAMBIA---NkwG UA r
GUINEA  (   FASO   Mr                    1                 Rf,-DJIBOUTI
GUISSAU   GIE              5 \tE           NIGERIA                                         /  
SIERR             O)      \                             ,                          c) EHOI 
LEONE    KDIOR4HNE                          4 ,pNREFIA                              Ao          
LIBEIA |S MGO fd  
EQUATORIAL GUINE   4         _ZAR                                        7 SOMALIA
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE)   GA f                  RWANDA              \
>             ~~~BURUNDI)                                       9
IA~~~4
COMOROS
AFRICATIP NETWORK
F<    AGETIP UNDER APPRAISAL                                                                                             MAURITIUS
rBOTSWANA,
Z    AGETIP ALREADY CREATED                                                  f
)                   ~~~~~SWAZILAND
AFRICA      \
LESOTHO
This mop -os prepored by the Mop Unit of the Wold bonk
The bondor,ies, coi-or, denominations ond any other information
shoon on this mop do not imply, on the port of Th. World Bonk Grop,
ony judgment on the legal stot.s of any teritory, or ony endorsement
or occept-or of sr.h boondories.
JULY 1996









IMAGING
Report No.:          16516
Type:      PPAR



