Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
Section 1 - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared: (07/11/03 / Updated: 09/04/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country: BENIN                                         Project ID:P072003
Project: PRSC-1                                        Task Team Leaders: Claude Leroy-Themeze & Rachidi
Radji
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 3, 2003         IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 16,2003                        IDA Amount ($m): 20.0
Managing Unit: AFTP3/AFIH2
Lending Instrument: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC)
Status: Lending                                        Sector: Central government administration (40%); Health
(30%); Primary education (20%); General agriculture,
fishing and forestry sector (2%); General public
administration sector (8%)
Theme:   Macroeconomic management (S); Poverty
strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Public expenditure,
financial management and procurement (P); Other
accountability/anti-corruption (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC series are to support the implementation of Benin's
Poverty Reduction Strategy and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and carry out its own
development and poverty reduction programs. PRSCs will focus on policies and reforms with the highest
poverty impact, and on areas where IDA has a comparative advantage. Given the comprehensiveness of the
PRSP and the high cost of its implementation, PRSCs will be designed to assist the Government in
establishing priorities and implementing a rolling refonn program focused on these priorities.
More specifically, the objectives of the PRSCs during the 2004-2006 period are to support the Government
of Benin in its efforts to reduce poverty through the implementation of policies designed to: (i) maintain
macroeconomic stability and accelerate economic growth (e.g., setting of a sound regulatory framework in
liberalized sectors in order to create the enabling environment for private sector investnent), and (ii)
improve the delivery, quality, and coverage of basic services while improving expenditure efficiency.
To that end, the series of PRSCs will:
* help create the basis for private-sector-led economic growth by supporting the Government's
macroeconomric program and improving investment climate;
* support the Government's public expenditure management reform with the view to increase the
poverty impact of public expenditures, along with the strengthening of public finance management
and institutional capacity; and
* support the reform agenda and help finance the Government's expenditure program in key sectors,
focusing on the delivery of quality basic services tailored to the needs of the poor.



I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The proposed PRSC 1 is designed to help implement the Benin's December 2002 Poverty Reduction
Strategy. It will support key policy measures aiming at (i) bolstering the medium-term macroeconomic
framework, (ii) improving service delivery, (iii) enhancing governance and institutional capacity, and (iv)
promoting employment and income-generating activities for the poor. PRSC- I will focus on selective cross-
cutting themes (e.g., public expenditure management reform) that are critical to the quality of service
delivery. PRSC-1 will focus on three sectors: health, education and rural and semi-urban water. In
addition to these three sectors, PRSC-1 will support the Environment and Urban Development, as well as
the Forest management programs. This support will ensure that these two programs are properly funded,
implemented and monitored.
In particular, PRSC-l will support measures in the following areas:
1. Public expenditure and budget management: (i) design and implement a transition strategy from
project to program-based budgeting in transportation and agriculture, (ii) develop a technical guide
including quality standards for content and documentation for the preparation of program budgets,
(iii) develop and implement a stronger performance monitoring and M&E capacity building
program, and (iv) extend the coverage of the integrated public expenditure management system to
all externally fimded projects;
2. Access to quality health services: (i) develop appropriate indicators needed for the monitoring and
evaluation of the performance of the MoH, and the progress made towards achievement of MDGs,
(ii) support and implement the health sector decentralization process by strengthening the capacity
of health districts to implement and monitor priority health programs, and improving the
mechanisms for resource transfer from the center to districts, (iii) provide adequate support to
priority health programs, particularly to reproductive health, malaria control, HIV/AIDS, and
immunization;
3. Access to quality basic education: (i) prepare a sector strategy and a long-term action plan, (ii)
increase access and retention in primary education, (iii) improve management and distribution of
staff (teachers), (iv) improve the efficiency of spending programs, and increase the role of
communities in school management, and (v) develop new methods for primary and secondary
teacher recruitment and training;
4. Access to potable water in rural and semi-urban areas: (i) increase supply of water to rural dwellers
by drilling 600 wells in 2004, (ii) adopt and implement a long-term commnunity plan for the
maintenance of infrastructure (local repair shops, supply of spare parts, etc.), (iii) develop an
adequate M&E system for the monitoring or water resources, and (iv) support the decentralization
and deconcentration of rural water supply services;
5. Environmental management and urban sanitation: (i) improve the M&E and performance
measurement tools for program budgets, (ii) prepare a plan for increasing the coverage of sanitation
services in low-income and disadvantaged areas in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and other secondary
cities, (iii) support environmental compliance and enforcement (environmental impact assessment,
pollution control, conservation of fragile ecosystems of the coastal zone, etc.), and (iv) start the
consultation process for the identification and establishment of community-conservation areas in the
fragile ecosystems of the coastal zone;
6. Forestry and adjacent land management: (i) recruit and train additional foresters, and provide
sufficient funding and adequate equipment to the forest service, (ii) continue consultation process
2



for the creation of forest user associations as partners to the co-management schemes between the
forest service and local communities living on adjacent lands, (iii) prepare forest management plans,
and establish an M&E system, and (iv) review and update of forestry legislation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is not location-specific. PRSC-1 will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance and Economy,
and the line ministries whose sector programs are supported by the Credit. Implementation of the sectoral
activities supported by the Credit will take place in districts, comnmunes, and villages across the country.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Benin PRSC-1 has been classified as category B because of its coverage of sectoral investment.
The main reason for classification is the potential environmnental impacts resulting from the drilling of wells
for water supply in rural areas. As a result, operational policy on environmental assessment (OP/BP/GP
4.01) applies. The potential environmental and social impacts of PRSC-1 are those resulting from its
sectoral coverage. Such impacts, as mentioned above, relate primarily to the investment in rural water
supply.   But health care activities could also generate environmental concerns.  The potential
environmental and social impacts of both categories of activities are not expected to be of a great
magnitude, nor would be irreversible. The full environmental analysis will be attached as an annex to the
PRSC-1 Program Document, and the annex will be disclosed at the Bank InfoShop and in relevant
locations in Benin.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on E5 for a detailed description or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                                       Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The potential adverse environmental and social effects associated with the proposed PRSC-1 are mainly
related to (i) the drilling of wells for rural water supply, and (ii) medical waste generation and handling.
Such effects are expected to be modest and reversible through appropriate mitigation actions. It must be
3



mentioned, however, that the activities related to coastal zone management, and to the forests and adjacent
lands management are part of broader programs whose activities span over a five-year period. The coastal
zone management and forest and adjacent lands management activities planned for PRSC-1 do not seem to
generate any adverse environmental impacts. However, future activities (2005 and onward) under these
two categories (i.e., coastal management, and forests and adjacent lands management) could be associated
with potential adverse environmental and/or social impacts. Guidance will be provided to the respective
implementing agencies to help them complete the assessments of such impacts before the appraisal of
PRSC-2, so that appropriate measures supported by technical documents are prepared to support the
implementation of the environmental and social management plans.
II.D.l b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
There are no cumulative or large-scale impacts associated with the investments proposed under PRSC-1.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The activities related to coastal zone management include the establishment of community-based
conservation areas. The identification of these areas and the consultation of the local populations started in
2001 will continue in 2004. Land acquisition (through purchase from individuals or municipalities at
market price) for the establishment of the conservation areas could start in 2005. However, it is important
to mention that there will be no land acquisition under PRSC-1. In anticipation of the possible acquisition
of land for protected areas under a subsequent PRSC-2, preparation of the land acquisition and resettlement
framework that will eventually be needed will be carried out in parallel with the implementation of PRSC-
1. This framework that will be developed in conformity with the Bank Resettlement Policy (OP/BP 4.12)
will cover both the land acquisition process and any loss of economic opportunities that could result from
the enclosure of areas for biodiversity conservation. A social assessment study is underway. This
assessment will help establish a solid socio-economic baseline that will guide the preparation of the
resettlement and land acquisition framework by the Government.
ll.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A
IL.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
A more elaborated description of the measures presented below are found in the EA annex to the PRSC-1
Program Document.
Institutional and Regulatory Framework for Environmental Management in Benin
Institutions for environmental management have developed slowly but steadily in Benin since the creation
of the Ministry of Environment in 1992. Following the creation of the Benin Environmental Agency in
1995, the country benefited from the Bank support from 1996-2001 in the implementation of the
Environmental Management Project that focused on the creation of the basic institutional and technical
capacity for environmental management. Environmental impact assessment (EIA) was one of the key areas
of emphasis of the capacity building efforts. These capacity building efforts consisted of three main types
of activities including (i) enacting a framework environmental law with specific requirements for EIA (and
preparing and adopting implementation decrees for EIA law), (ii) developing sectoral guidelines for EIA,
and (iii) holding several training workshops for the staff in line ministries, in consulting firns, and a few
NGOs. These training workshops started in 2000 and have had several rounds with differing thematic
focus and complexity.
4



In addition to the training of staff from the line ministries, the Environmental Agency helped to create ELA
units in almost all the ministries. Seven Ministers have enacted an arrete ministeniel in order to provide a
legal foundation for the operations of these units. The main role of these units is to undertake the screening
of the public investment projects included in the budget of each year, and recommend appropriate actions
(under the guidance of the Environmental Agency) aiming to mitigate any residual negative environmental
or social impacts. Based on the sectoral guidelines prepared by the Agency, they provide guidance and
supervision of EIA studies, and mitigations plans. All the line ministries supported by PRSC-1 (health,
education, water supply) have their own EIA units.
Specific Arrangements for Handling Safeguards Issues in PRSC-1
Investments in Rural Water Supply
The Ministry of Energy and Water Resources, in particular, is among the departments that acknowledged
the importance of these cells by giving them a legal mandate (i.e., adopted an arrete ministeriel that
clarifies the role of the sectoral EIA unit). The environmental safeguards adopted by the Ministry in the
area of rural water supply and water resource management include the following:
*  Mandatory full ELA for dam;
*  Avoid unsanitary sites (cemeteries, near dump sites, cattle pens and sites that served this purpose in
the past);
*  Control of wastewater and mud around wells;
*  Sensitization of users on hygiene; and
*  Imposing restrictions the distance between wells and latrines (at least 15 meters).
These measures will continue to be enforced during the implementation of the rural water supply
investment of the proposed Credit. The Govemment is not directly involved in the process of designating
the location where the wells are drilled. This process is completed by the requesting community through a
consultation process facilitated by NGOs. The drilling starts only when the community reaches an
agreement on the selection of the site. This agreement must be based on a donation title signed by the
commune. This process has worked fine so far.
Medical Waste Manaaement
Environmental safeguards for the Ministry of Health have to do mainly with the treatment and disposal of
medical wastes. In 1998, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Urban
Development jointly prepared and adopted a National Sanitation Action Plan. This Action Plan includes a
component on health care waste management that has three categories of expenditures, namely, training,
acquisition of health care equipment, and incinerators. The lack of sufficient financing (total cost in 1998
was US$ 1.1 million) has impeded the implementation of this Action Plan.
Fortunately, the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan of the Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project provided the opportunity to implement the most urgent and cost-effective actions of the health care
waste management component of the National Action Plan. In fact, a waste management plan (covering
the whole country) prepared by the borrower was cleared by ASPEN in early 2002. Consequently, there is
no need to prepare another plan. The project is now under implementation along with the waste
management plan. PRSC-1 will use the same plan and rely on the existing implementation mechanisms to
meet the safeguards re4uirements in the area of health service provision.
Coastal zone and forest management activities
It was mentioned above that the forestry and coastal zone management activities planned for PRSC-1 will
not lead to any adverse environmental or social impact. It is so because the 2004 work plan involves only
5



preparatory activities. The PRSC-I Program Document mentions acknowledges this reduced scope of the
activities of these two components for budget year 2004 by limiting total disbursement for these activities
to about US$2.0 million. However, the coastal zone and forest management activities planned for 2005
may require close monitoring for their environmental/social impacts. As mentioned above (II.D.1c), a
social assessment is underway in order to deternmine the scope of the social safeguards issues that need to
be addressed in PRSC-2.
It is important to mention that local populations have been fully involved in the preparation phase of both
the coastal and forest management components. For example, for the coastal zone activities there have
been several meetings with local communities, and municipalities to discuss the operational implications
and the potential socio-economic consequences of the creation of community-based conservation areas near
their villages or towns. The result of this involvement led to the inclusion of a sub-component titled
"Sustainable use and community development" into the biodiversity conservation component of the project.
This sub-component aims at providing community members who might loose economic opportunities with
alternative livelihood means. In particular, the project will contribute financial resources to the local
micro-finance schemes in order to put in place credit lines that will help the affected individuals start
alternative economic activities. These credit lines will also be used to lower the entry barriers for the
adoption of the sustainable resource use practices promoted by the project. Similar processes and
mechanisms (community development funds for alternative activities) are included in the forest
management component.
In both the coastal zone and forest management projects, socio-economic assessments are underway.
These assessments will help refine the current design of the planned community development sub-
components by clearly identifying and accounting for the various categories of resources users affected,
and examining other ways (other than access to credit, and grants) that will suit the needs of the affected
community members. The results of such assessments and the appropriate mitigation measures will be
ready by the time the preparation of PRSC-2 starts in early 2004. The appraisal mission of PRSC-1 in
September 2003 will review the progress of the assessment studies, in order to ensure that they are
completed on schedule.
Urban sanitation
Urban sanitation services have improved steadily in the two major cities of the country (Cotonou and
Porto-Novo) since the mid 1990s. However, the concerns for unhealthy sanitation and environmental
conditions are growing in low-income neighborhoods of Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and in secondary cities.
The improvement of sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban areas, especially in Cotonou and Porto-
Novo could generate noticeable environmental and social impacts. Such impacts are known to a great
extent because the existing sanitation master prepared in 1998 included an environmental impact
assessment study that proposed an environmental and social management plan. PRSC-1 will help update
the 1998 master sanitation plan by selecting high priority low-income areas where urgent improvement of
sanitation services is needed in order to reduce the burden of environment-related diseases. Investment in
terms of earth work and construction of drains will not start until 2005 because (i) the 2004 sanitation
budget is allocated primarily to the completion of on-going sanitation work in other areas, and (ii) the need
to complete area-specific technical studies. As part of these studies, the 1998 environmental and social
study will be updated to meet the specific needs of the targeted areas. These studies will be completed by
the time the preparation of the 2005 budget starts (May 2004).
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
6



PRSCs support key measures that are identified in Benin's PRSP. The PRSP process includes extensive
consultations with civil society and stakeholders on the central and local level. The preparation of the two
associated GEF operations has had a long consultation process both at the regional (i.e., prefecture,
municipal), and local levels (i.e., individual villages or communities) likely to be involved in the planned
activities. In fact, the strong involvement of local comnunities in the implementation phase is critical for
the success of these natural resource management activities. As a result, the institutional arrangements for
the implementation of these activities are centered on a network of user associations (i.e., forest user
associations for the forestry component, and community conservation units for the coastal zone
component). The role of these community-based user associations in the implementation phase has been
discussed extensively during regional preparation workshops in which participated representatives of local
governments, regional offices of line ministries involved, and local NGOs. Detailed description of the role
of these associations is provided in the respective project documents (GEF project brief).
The Safegulard documents will be disclosed through consultations with donors community and Beninese
governnent officials from the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and all line ministries supported by
PRSC-1 and subsequent PRSCs. These consultations will take place prior to the appraisal of the PRSC-1 in
September 2003. The borrower will make the documents available immediately; and they will be shared
and available at the information center of the Benin Resident Mission and at the InfoShop in Washington.
E. Safeguards Classsfication (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                    9/10/03
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                9/30/03
Date of submission to InfoShop                                 9/30/03
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Reseutlement Action Plan/Framework:                            Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                    Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submnission to IfdShop                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples DevelOpment Plan/Framework:                 Expected       Actual
7



Date of receipt by the Bank                                  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Exvected      4ctual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is ot ex cted, please explain why.
Siened and submitted by           Name          (A                          Date
Task Team Leader:                 Claude Leze&          achidi Radji        Sept. 10, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                      Name                r                       2Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:  Thomas Walt                               September -?2003
Sector Manager/Director           Cadman Mills/Alx   eAbrantes              September 11, 2003
8



