Report No. PID
Project Name               Benin-First Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Region                     Africa
Sector                     PREM
Project ID                 P072003
Country Name              Republic of Benin
Implementing               Ministry of Finance and Economy
Agency                     P.O.B. 302, Cotonou, Benin
Mr. Mathias Houndonougbo
Permanent Secretariat of the National Committee for
Development and the Fight Against Poverty
Tel. 229-30 -17-37
Fax. 229-30-18-51
Environmental Category     B (EA due end August 2003)
Date of Initial PID       August 11, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date   September 1-20, 2003
Projected Board Date       December 15, 2003
Country and Sector Background
I.    Benin's population was estimated at about 6.8 million in the 2002 census. Per capita
income stood at $380 in 2001, with agriculture contributing to over one-third of GDP and
employing two-thirds of the active population. The main export crop, cotton, accounted for
76 percent of domestic exports on average in 2000-2002. The small industrial sector consists
largely of cotton ginning and small enterprises involved in the production of basic consumer
goods for the local market and accounting for about 14 percent of GDP. The large share of
services (50 percent of GDP) partly reflects Benin's role as a transportation and transit hub
for the landlocked neighboring countries and their principal trading partner Nigeria. Relative
to most other countries in the sub-region, and to its starting point of economic collapse and
political crisis in 1989, Benin has achieved remarkable progress in sustaining robust growth
while building a pluralist democracy over the past decade. Growth generally exceeded other
economies in the region and productivity gains allowed per capita incomes to rise. The
Government's structural adjustment program has been successful in establishing fiscal
discipline, opening up the economy, privatizing most public enterprises, and strengthening
private sector incentives. Most social indicators improved steadily throughout the 1990s,
particularly for education and health. But as Benin's recently completed PRSP explains,
these achievements did not translate into significant progress in poverty reduction.
Project Objective
2.     The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC series are to support the
implementation of Benin's PRSP and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and
carry out its own development and poverty reduction programs. PRSCs will focus on policies
and reforms with the highest poverty impact and where IDA has a comparative advantage.
Also given the comprehensiveness of the PRSP and the high cost of its implementation,



PRSCs will be designed to assist the Government in establishing priorities and implementing
a rolling core reform program.
3.     More specifically, the objective of the PRSCs during the 2004-06 period are to
support the Government of Benin in its efforts to reduce poverty through implementing
policies designed to: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability and accelerate economic growth
focusing on the effective implementation and completion of the privatization program, the
setting of a sound regulatory framework in liberalized sectors, the improving of private sector
investment climate, and of the legal and judicial systems; and (ii) improve the delivery,
quality, and coverage of basic services while improving expenditure efficiency.
4.     To that end, the series of PRSCs will:
*  support the Government's public expenditure management reform program, with the
view to increasing the poverty impact of public expenditures along with strengthening
public finance management and institutional capacity; and
*  support the reform agenda and help finance the Government's expenditure program in
key sectors, focusing on the delivery of quality basic services tailored to the needs of
the poor.
*  help create the basis for private-sector-led economic growth by supporting the
Government's macroeconomic program and improving the investment climate;
Project Design
5.     The series of PRSCs is intended to cover one PRSP cycle and be synchronized with
Government's budget cycle.  It would contain clear performance benchmarks, policy
measures, and outcome indicators for each of the PRSCs. The PRSCs would provide an
anchor for the Bank's overall support to Benin's policy and institutional reform and public
expenditure priorities. Each individual PRSC will be put in place and disbursed on the basis
of the up-front completion of a set of prior actions that demonstrate satisfactory progress of
the country's social and structural reform agenda in support of its poverty reduction strategy.
Each annual tranche, as part of the rolling medium-term program framework, will build on the
previous one; its prior actions will be formulated and agreed upon drawing on the progress
towards benchmarks laid out at the outset.
Project Selectivity and Sequencing
6.     Sectoral reform programs. While taking into account the PERAC experience,
which focused on five sectors at the onset (health, education, rural development, public works
and transportation, and environment and urban development) and covered eight sectors at
completion, the selection of sectors to be included in the PRSCs over the period 2004-06 is
determined by three major and weighted considerations: (i) the Bank's comparative advantage
and the potential for coordination and synergy with other donors; (ii) the consistency and
continuity with the 2001 I-CAS and the 2003 CAS under which the Bank supports the
Government's strategy to move toward programmatic lending and sector projects to be folded
in budget support; and (iii) the readiness of the sector, that is whether conditions for ensuring
effective participation of the sector in programmatic financing are considered acceptable,
judged notably by the quality of the sector strategy, the reform agenda for increasing
expenditure efficiency, and the capacity to prepare and implement program budgets.
7.     Selectivity is also guided by the assessment of the scope and nature of the remaining
policy reform agenda with regard to progress achieved under the PERAC. In this respect,
PRSC-1 would focus on three core sectors: health, basic education and rural water. These
three sectors are core in the country's poverty reduction strategy and have developed over the
past three years a minimum level of capacity and ability to participate in budget support



lending. The water and sanitation strategy was prepared by the Government with the support
of sector donors ten years ago and continues to provide the sector with a sound framework for
increased public expenditures while addressing remaining reforms. Similarly, a health
sectoral strategy and policy has been in place since 1995 and has served as the basis for the
design of multi-year expenditure programs supported by the donors through budget support
and investment projects. An education sector policy and strategy was adopted by the
Government in 1998. Implementation of the strategy has been, however, challenged since
2001 by sub-sector strategic plans prepared by three different ministers appointed to manage
the sector. The PRSP has, however, laid out the systemic approach. The PRSC-1 will focus
on basic education (primary and secondary education) where there exists a framework for
performance-based programs while addressing policy issues that are critical to help the
country accelerate the pace towards the MDGs (universal completion of primary education).
In parallel, the dialogue will be enhanced with the Government along with other sector donor
to sharpen the integrated sectoral vision and prepare a long-term development program for the
entire sector.
8.    In addition to the above three core sectors, the PRSC would support the
implementation of environment and urban development and the forest management programs;
two sub-sector programs that have achieved impressive results under the PERAC and where
no substantial policy issues are expected. In particular, support under the PRSC would ensure
that they are properly funded, executed and monitored. Both sub-sectors --which will be
supported by two GEF grants under PRSC-1-- have developed sound strategies supported by
result-based program-budgets that have contributed to improved efficiency and accountability
in public expenditure management, and the provision of pro-poor public goods. These two
programs would not be subject to triggers, but their annual expenditure programs would be
properly reviewed by the Bank and agreements reached on policy actions and result
benchmarks that will serve as basis for assessing accountability along with the monitoring of
the overall PRSC program. A short description of these two programs and the related GEF
projects (Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management and Forestry and Adjacent Land
Management) is included in Annexes 1, 2, 3 and 4. Other sectors will be progressively
included in subsequent PRSCs to support the Government's reform agenda on the basis of an
assessment of their readiness that include results of the sectoral dialogue as well as
agreements on an acceptable framework for performance-based programs. (see background,
issues, and preparatory steps in Annex 5). It is actually expected that PRSC-2 would support
justice, agricultural development, and rural transportation.
Project Environmental Aspects
9.     Based on the objectives and sectoral coverage of PRSC-1, the operation was
classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) in accordance with the Interim Guidelines
for PRSCs of May, 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60,
Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental Assessment, apply.
In accordance with OP 4.01, the credit was categorized as a B without a separate
Environmental Assessment. The Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) under preparation
will document the main safeguards issues and the measures proposed to mitigate any adverse
environmental and social impacts that may result. Following the approval of the Integrated
Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) by the Regional Safeguard Unit, an Environmental Analysis
Annex will be prepared, and disclosed through the World Bank InfoShop, and in Benin prior
to the appraisal of the credit.
Project Benefits and Risks
10.   The PRSC instrument has a number of benefits over the traditional combination of
adjustments credits and projects operations. These benefits include: (i) the programmatic
approach increases Benin's ownership of its development programs, strengthens budgetary



institutions and reduces transactions costs in delivery of external assistance; and (ii) the multi-
sectoral approach promotes collaboration and coordination while maximizing the impact on
poverty reduction.
11.   In addition, the reform program to be supported by PRSC- 1 is expected to contribute
to the PRSP's ultimate goals, with greater effects on the following areas: (i) improved
budgeting and public expenditure management; and (ii) improved basic services delivery
(health, education, water and sanitation services).
12.    The Benin CAS stresses the main risks facing the Government: (i) the economy's
vulnerability to a further drop in cotton prices and/or in cotton production; (ii) economic and
political developments in Nigeria; (iii) implementation delays linked to Benin's democratic
political environment; (iv) reform slippages; and (v) weak institutional capacity.
13.    These risks have a bearing on the PRSC, which aims at supporting the PRSP
implementation. Of these the following could greatly influence the implementation of the
proposed operation:
*  The first risk is that higher growth may not lead to a significant reduction in poverty,
in line with past trends in Benin. By supporting cotton sector reforms, a broad-based
growth strategy, and expanded affordable access to basic social services, the
assistance program including the PRSC is especially focused on mitigating this risk.
*  Second is the economy's vulnerability to a further drop in cotton prices and/or in
cotton production. Given the importance of the cotton sector for the economy, a
significant drop in international cotton prices or a disruption of production would
affect growth and living standards. One objective of the PRSC is to promote
economic diversification through (i) setting up of an environment more conducive to
private sector development including agriculture; and (ii) an improvement in transport
infrastructure including in rural areas.
*  Third, economic and political developments in Nigeria represent both a big
opportunity and a serious risk for development and poverty reduction in Benin. To
benefit from positive developments in Nigeria, Benin should aim to become a more
efficient trade platform by ensuring that its customs system operates fairly and
efficiently; by leading the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)
to adopt even more liberal and open trading policies; and by ensuring that its
infrastructure services are delivered at lowest cost (especially port and transport
operations). Improvement of port operations would be supported by the PRSC-1.
*  Fourth is the risk of slippages in key reforms, which could affect the Government
ability to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment and focus expenditure on
poverty reducing priorities identified in the PRSP.
*  The fifth major risk is weak institutional capacity. Increased ownership by the
government and the public, as proposed in the PRSP, should provide greater
incentives for strengthening national capacity, but there is clearly a risk that
improvements in capacity could be slower than desired. These constraints could slow
down the pace of improvements in public service delivery as well as implementation
of core reforms. However, the PRSC will be geared to addressing institutional
deficiencies while coordinating closely with other sector donors to progressively
reducing identified capacity gaps.
Project Implementation



14.   The program will be supervised by an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the
Minister of Finance. Coordination and monitoring will be managed by the Permanent
Secretariat of the National Committee for Development and the fight Against Poverty
Contact Point      The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Managers:
- Claude Leroy-Themeze, Cotonou: (229) 312-124 - ext. 316
- Rachidi Radji, Washington - ext. 31008



