E897
Benin
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1)
Environmental Analysis
Introduction
1.    This document is an analysis of the potential environmental and social impacts associated
with the first Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1) for Benin. In addition to providing
guidance for the compliance of Bank environmental and social safeguards during the
implementation of PRSC-1, this analysis sets the stage for the environmental assessment (EA) of
envisaged PRSC-2, and the following ones. The present document will be annexed to the
Program Document of PRSC-1.
Operational Context
2.     The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC  series are to support the
implementation of Benin's Poverty Reduction Strategy and to strengthen the Government's
capacity to design and carry out its own development and poverty reduction programs. PRSCs
will focus on policies and reforms with the highest poverty impact, and on areas where IDA has a
comparative advantage. Given the comprehensiveness of the PRSP and the high cost of its
implementation, PRSCs will be designed to assist the Government in establishing priorities and
implementing a rolling reform program focused on these priorities.
3.     More specifically, the objectives of the PRSCs during the 2004-2006 period are to
support the Govemment of Benin in its efforts to reduce poverty through the implementation of
policies designed to: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability and accelerate economic growth (e.g.,
setting of a sound regulatory framework in liberalized sectors in order to create the enabling
environment for private sector investment), and (ii) improve the delivery, quality, and coverage of
basic services while improving expenditure efficiency.
4.     To that end, the series of PRSCs will:
*  help create the basis for private-sector-led economic growth by supporting the
Government's macroeconomic program and improving investment climate;
* support the Government's public expenditure management reform with the view to
increase the poverty impact of public expenditures, along with the strengthening of public
finance management and institutional capacity; and
* support the reform agenda and help finance the Government's expenditure program in
key sectors, focusing on the delivery of quality basic services tailored to the needs of the
poor.
Description of Project Objectives
5.     The proposed PRSC-1 is designed to help implement the Benin's December 2002
Poverty Reduction Strategy. It will support key policy measures aiming at (i) bolstering the
medium-term macroeconomic framework, (ii) improving service delivery, (iii) enhancing
governance and institutional capacity, and (iv) promoting employment and income-generating
FILE COPY



-2-
activities for the poor. PRSC-1 will focus on selective cross-cutting themes (e.g., public
expenditure management reform) that are critical to the quality of service delivery. PRSC-1
will focus on three sectors: health, basic education, and rural water. In addition to these three
sectors, PRSC-1 will support the urban environmental management, as well as the forest
management programs. This support will ensure that these two programs are properly funded,
implemented and monitored.
6. In particular, PRSC-1 will support the implementation of Government policies and
programs in the following areas:
*  Public expenditure and budget management: (i) design and implement a transition
strategy from project to program-based budgeting in transportation and agriculture,
(ii) develop a technical guide including quality standards for content and
documentation for the preparation of program budgets, (iii) develop and implement a
stronger performance monitoring and M&E capacity building program, and (iv)
extend the coverage of the integrated public expenditure management system to all
externally funded projects;
*  Access to quality health services: (i) develop appropriate indicators needed for the
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the MoH, and the progress made
towards achievement of MDGs, (ii) support and implement the health sector
decentralization process by strengthening the capacity of health districts to
implement and monitor priority health programs, and improving the mechanisms for
resource transfer from the center to districts, (iii) provide adequate support to priority
health programs, particularly to reproductive health, malaria control, HIV/AIDS, and
immunization;
*  Access to quality basic education: (i) prepare a sector strategy and a long-term action
plan, (ii) increase access and retention in primary education, (iii) improve
management and distribution of staff (teachers), (iv) improve the efficiency of
spending programs, and increase the role of communities in school management, and
(v) develop new methods for primary and secondary teacher recruitment and training;
*  Access to potable water in rural areas: (i) increase supply of water to rural dwellers
by drilling 600 wells in 2004, (ii) adopt and implement a long-term community plan
for the maintenance of infrastructure (local repair shops, supply of spare parts, etc.),
(iii) develop an adequate M&E system for the monitoring or water resources, and (iv)
support the decentralization and deconcentration of rural water supply services;
*  Environmental management and urban sanitation: (i) improve the M&E and
performance measurement tools for program budgets, (ii) prepare a plan for
increasing the coverage of sanitation services in low-income and disadvantaged areas
in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and other secondary cities, and (iii) support
environmental compliance and enforcement (environmental impact assessment,
pollution control, etc.);
* Forestry and adjacent land management: (i) recruit and train additional foresters, and
provide sufficient funding and adequate equipment to the forest service, (ii) continue
consultation process for the creation of forest user associations as partners to the co-
management schemes between the forest service and local communities living on



-3 -
adjacent lands, (iii) prepare forest management plans, and establish an M&E system, and
(iv) review and update of forestry legislation.
Environmental Classification and Safeguard Policy
7.     Based on the above project objectives, the Benin PRSC-1 was classified as a sectoral
adjustment credit (SECAC) at a meeting convened by the Bank-wide PRSC Working Group, in
accordance with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May 2001. According to Bank policy, the
Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01
'Environmental Assessment' (EA) apply to this Credit. In accordance with OP 4.01, the Credit
was categorized as a B without a separate EA. An environmental analysis consistent with the
requirements OP 4.01and OD 8.60 is annexed to the Credit Program Document. In accordance
with the Bank's revised disclosure policy, this environmental analysis is disclosed through the
World Bank InfoShop, and in Benin.
Key Safeguard Issues
8.     The potential adverse environmental and social effects associated with the proposed
PRSC-1 are mainly related to (i) the drilling of wells for rural water supply, and (ii) medical
waste generation and handling. Such effects are expected to be modest and reversible through
appropriate mitigation actions. It must be mentioned, however, that the activities related to the
forests and adjacent lands management are part of broader programs whose activities span over a
five-year period. The forest and adjacent lands management activities planned for PRSC-I do not
seem to generate any adverse environmental impacts. However, future activities (2005 and
onward) associated with the management of the forest lands might generate some adverse
environmental and/or social impacts. The environmental and social management plan (ESMP) to
be included in the on-going studies will provide the respective implementing agencies with the
appropriate guidance aimed at mitigating any adverse environmental and/or social impacts. The
studies will be completed before the appraisal of PRSC-2. The ESMP will be properly costed to
address not only the forest related negative impacts but all other impacts as well. The plan will
also concretely identify the responsible institutions to implement and monitor the relevant
sections of the plan. The National Environmental Agency will be charged with the responsibility
of overseeing the execution of the plan. An appropriate reporting mechanism will also be put in
place to ensure that sectoral partners as well as external partners are kept abreast of the
implementation performance. Upon completion of the plan the World Bank and other partners
should be allowed to review and comment on the document and for the interest of interested
parties, the approved plan will be disclosed in strategic places in the country as well as at the
World Bank's Information Center.
Borrower Readiness for Addressing Safeguard Issues
Regulatory and Institutional Framework
9.    Institutions for environmental management have developed slowly but steadily in Benin
since the creation of the Ministry of Environment in 1992. The country adopted an overarching
environmental law (loi cadre sur 1'environnement) in 1999 that places environmental impact
assessment at the core of the Government efforts towards achieving the goals of the sustainable
development. Following the creation of the Benin Environmental Agency in 1995, the country
benefited from the Bank support from 1996-2001 in the implementation of the Environmental



-4 -
Management Project that focused on the creation of the basic institutional and technical capacity
for environmental management. Environmental impact assessment (EIA) was one of the key
areas of emphasis of the capacity building efforts. These capacity building efforts consisted of
three main types of activities including (i) enacting a framework environmental law with specific
requirements for EIA (and preparing and adopting implementation decrees for EIA law), (ii)
developing sectoral guidelines for EIA, and (iii) holding several training workshops for the staff
in line ministries, in consulting firms, and a few NGOs. These training workshops started in 2000
and have had several rounds with differing thematic focus and complexity.
10.   In addition to the training of staff from the line ministries, the Environmental Agency
helped to create EIA cells in the following ministries: (i) economy and finance, (ii) public health,
(iii) national defense, (iv) basic education, (v) public works and transport, (vi) agriculture,
livestock and fisheries, (vii) mining, energy and water resources, (viii) interior, security and
decentralization, (ix) industry, commerce and employment, (x) information, communication and
new technologies. Of these ministries, seven have enacted an arrete ministeriel that establishes
the legal foundation for the operations of these cells. The main role of these units is to undertake
the screening of the public investment projects included in the budget of each year, and
recommend appropriate actions (under the guidance of the Environmental Agency) aiming to
mitigate any residual negative environmental or social impacts. Based on the sectoral guidelines
prepared by the Agency, they provide guidance and supervision of EIA studies, and mitigations
plans. All the line ministries supported by PRSC-1 (health, education, water supply) have their
own EIA units. The Benin environmental agency will continue to upgrade its operational and
technical capacity, particularly in strategic environmental assessment in order to provide the best
possible oversight to the sectoral EA units in the implementation of their respective ESMPs.
11.   During the implementation of the Environmental Management Project (1996-2001), the
Benin Environmental Agency helped to establish municipal associations for environmental
management (AMAE).    These associations (NGO status) also benefited from training in
environmental assessment, and in local investment planning in the area of environmental
management. Following the formal creation of the communes and the first municipal elections in
2002, the AMAE are collaborating with the municipalities in the area of local environmental
management.
Environmental Policy Implementation
12.   In addition to the NEAP (updated in 2001), the Ministry of Environment, Housing, and
Urban Development (MEHU) has adopted in 2002 a Medium-Term Strategic Plan (2002-2006)
that highlights the main objectives of the country in the area of environmental management,
housing, and urban development. The Environment Directorate and the Benin Environmental
Agency share the responsibility and objectives of the Ministry's mandate in area of
environmental management. This mandate that focuses on the control of the country's major
environmental threats evolves around the following activities (i) deepening the regulatory
framework, (ii) developing environmental compliance and enforcement tools, (iii) protecting of
coastal resources and controlling costal erosion, (iv) controlling urban transport pollution, and (v)
increasing access to urban sanitation and drainage services.
13.   These activities are fully reflected in the Ministry's 2004 budget, and medium-term
expenditure framework supported by PRSC-1. The Ministry has also developed an effective
expenditure tracking, and activity/performance monitoring system that is now followed by other
ministries. It is the progress toward strategic planning and effective performance monitoring,



-5-
especially in the area of environmental management that led to the inclusion of the Environment
Program (of MEHU) in PRSC-1. The PRSC-1 will ensure that this Program is properly funded
and implemented. The integration of environmental impact assessment (big items that clearly
require attention in terms of environmental impacts) in the appraisal and planning of at least 50
percent of 2004 public investments is one of the two indicators included in the PRSC-1
monitoring matrix (see PRSC- 1 Program Document).
Arrangements for Borrower to Address Safeguard Issues
14.    Based on the above, it is fair to state that Benin would have the institutional, regulatory,
and technical capacity required to support the implementation of the measures needed to ensure
compliance with its own EA law as well as Bank safeguard policies. In addition to the general
framework for applying due diligence and compliance with the country's environmental
legislation, the implementation of PRSC-1 adopted sector specific measures aimed at mitigating
any negative environmental and social impacts associated with the planned activities, as
described below.
Investments in Rural Water Supply
15.    The Ministry of Energy and Water Resources, in particular, is among the departments
that acknowledged the importance of these cells by giving them a legal mandate (i.e., adopted an
arrete ministeriel that clarifies the role of the sectoral EIA unit). The environmental safeguards
adopted by the Ministry in the area of rural water supply and water resource management include
the following:
* Mandatory full EIA for dam;
* Avoid unsanitary sites (cemeteries, near dump sites, cattle pens and sites that served this
purpose in the past);
* Control of wastewater and mud around wells;
* Sensitization of users on hygiene; and
* Imposing restrictions on the distance between wells and latrines (at least 15 meters).
16.    These measures will continue to be enforced during the implementation of the rural water
supply investment of the proposed Credit. The Government is not directly involved in the
process of designating the location where the wells are drilled. This process is completed by the
requesting community through a consultation process facilitated by NGOs. The drilling starts
only when the community reaches an agreement on the selection of the site. This agreement must
be based on a donation title signed by the commune. This process has worked fine so far.
Medical Waste Management
17.    Environmental safeguards for the Ministry of Health have to do mainly with the
treatment and disposal of medical wastes. In 1998, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of
Environment, Housing, and Urban Development jointly prepared and adopted a National
Sanitation Action Plan.  This Action Plan includes a component on health care waste
management that has three categories of expenditures, namely, training, acquisition of health care
equipment, and incinerators. The lack of sufficient financing (total cost in 1998 was US$ 1.1
million) has impeded the implementation of this Action Plan.



-6 -
18.    Fortunately, the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan of the Multi-
Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project provided the opportunity to implement the most urgent and cost-
effective actions of the health care waste management component of the National Action Plan. In
fact, a waste management plan (covering the whole country) prepared by the borrower was
cleared by ASPEN in early 2002. Consequently, there is no need to prepare another plan. The
project is now under implementation along with the waste management plan. PRSC-1 will use
the same plan and rely on the existing implementation mechanisms to meet the safeguards
requirements in the area of health service provision.
Forest Management Activities
19.   It was mentioned above that the forestry management activities planned for PRSC-l will
not lead to any adverse environmental or social impact. It is so because the 2004 work plan
involves only preparatory activities. However, forest and adjacent land management activities
planned for 2005 may require close monitoring for their environmental/social impacts. As
mentioned above, an EA and a social assessment studies are underway in order to determine the
scope of the social safeguards issues that need to be addressed in PRSC-2, and onward.
20.   It is important to mention that local populations have been fully involved in the
preparation phase of the forest management sub-program. There have been several meetings with
local communities to discuss the operational implications and the potential socio-economic
consequences of the forest management plans. The result of this involvement led to the inclusion
of a sub-component titled "Sustainable use and community development" into the forest
management sub-program. This sub-component aims at providing community members who
might lose economic opportunities with alternative livelihood means. In particular, the project
will contribute financial resources to the local micro-finance schemes in order to put in place
credit lines that will help the affected individuals start alternative economic activities. These
credit lines will also be used to lower the entry barriers for the adoption of the sustainable
resource use practices promoted by the project. The EA and the social assessment studies will
help refine the current design of the planned community development sub-components by clearly
identifying and accounting for the various categories of resources users affected, and examining
other ways (other than access to credit, and grants) that will suit the needs of the affected
community members. The results of such assessments and the appropriate mitigation measures
will be ready by the time the preparation of PRSC-2 starts.
Urban Sanitation
21.    Urban sanitation services have improved steadily in the two major cities of the country
(Cotonou and Porto-Novo) since the mid 1990s. However, the concerns for unhealthy sanitation
and environmental conditions are growing in low-income neighborhoods of Cotonou and Porto-
Novo, and in secondary cities. The improvement of sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban
areas, especially in Cotonou and Porto-Novo could generate noticeable environmental and social
impacts. Such impacts are known to a great extent because the existing sanitation master
prepared in 1998 included an environmental impact assessment study that proposed an
environmental and social management plan. PRSC- 1 will help update the 1998 master sanitation
plan by selecting high priority low-income areas where urgent improvement of sanitation services
is needed in order to reduce the burden of environment-related diseases. Investment in terms of
earth work and construction of drains will not start until 2005 because (i) the 2004 sanitation
budget is allocated primarily to the completion of on-going sanitation work in other areas, and (ii)
the need to complete area-specific technical studies.  As part of these studies, the 1998



-7 -
environmental and social study will be updated to meet the specific needs of the targeted areas.
These studies will be completed by the time the preparation of the 2005 budget starts (May 2004).
Enforcement and Compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguards under PRSC-1
22.    The appraisal mission discussed with the sectoral ministries the best way to help them
implement successfully the above mitigation actions and comply with both national and Bank
safeguard policies. The agreed measures rely heavily on the sectoral ministries themselves, and
stress the link between these ministries, in particular, their environmental assessment cells with
the Benin Environmental Agency (ABE). During the mission, the EA specialist of the PRSC-1
task team held meetings with (i) the Directorate of Planning and Prospective Studies and the
representatives of the EA cell of each sectoral ministry, (ii) the Bank sectoral TTL (i.e., health,
water supply, and urban sanitation, forest management), and (iii) the head of the environmental
impact assessment unit of the ABE.
23.    These meetings examined the potential environmental and social impacts associated with
the planned investments in the respective sectors, and agreed on the nature, and scope of the
measures needed to mitigate these impacts. The teams adopted an action plan and division of
labor that will help monitor and report on the implementation of the adopted mitigation measures.
The agreed division of labor is as follows:
*  The Directorate of Planning and Prospective Studies of each sectoral ministry will
prepare an environmental and social management plan (ESMP) and its implementation
during PRSC-1,
*  The EA cell of each sectoral ministry will prepare an implementation progress report of
their ESMP,
*  The Benin Environmental Agency will oversee the implementation of the ESMPs, and
the preparation of the progress reports,
*  The Benin Environmental Agency will prepare an integrated progress report that provides
a synthesis of the implementation of the ESMPs during PRSC-1, and
*  The sectoral TTLs of the PRSC-1 team are accountable for making sure that the agreed
actions included in the ESMPs are implemented timely.
24.    The final report to be prepared by the Benin Environmental Agency will be used as the
basis for preparing the EA work for PRSC-2. The report should be available by the time PRSC-2
is appraised.



