Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3873 BEN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 15, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3873 BEN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
February 23, 2004 (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy), describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty from the 
Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 (C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided to, 
in support of the Program, provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in a single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
 “CFA Franc” means the currency of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“PRSP” means the 2003-2005 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper adopted 
by the Borrower in December 2002. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2014 
and ending October 1, 2043. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on October 1, 2023 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, 
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 (b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie 
B.P. 302 
 
Cotonou 
 
Republic of Benin 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFINANCES 
 
5009 MINFIN or 
(229) 30 18 51 
 
Cotonou 
 
 
5289 MINFIN   
(229) 31 53 56 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
By 
/s/ Cyrille Oguin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Pedro Alba 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
Page  13
-
12
-
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
The Borrower has:  
1. 
To enhance public expenditure management  
 (
a) 
submitted the draft 2004 budget law to the National Assembly 
consistent with 2004-2006 medium-term expenditure framework ceilings 
and PRSP priorities, including detailed medium-term program-budgets for 
rural water, health, basic education, environment and urban sanitation, 
forestry management, and transportation, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 9 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(b) 
agreed with the Association on 2004-2006 annual result targets in rural 
water, health, basic education, environment and urban sanitation, and forestry 
sectors, which have been reflected in the 2004-2006 program-budgets (including 
specific targets regarding gender), in accordance with the provisions of 
 
paragraph 68 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(c) 
submitted to the National Assembly the final performance audit reports 
prepared by the Chamber of Accounts of 2001 program-budget implementation for 
seven (7) pilot ministries, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 62 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
(d) 
published twice a week since January 31, 2003, all the calls for bids, 
evaluation reports of bids, and contract awards related to public procurement in the 
public procurement journal, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 51 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
(e) 
submitted to the National Assembly the draft law amending the institutional 
framework in the procurement code and creating and defining the attributions of 
the national regulatory agency for public procurement, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 53 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
To improve access to safe water in rural areas 
(
f) 
achieved substantial progress in meeting targets set for 2002, and has 
reflected the undertakings agreed in the joint Government-donor annual 
sector review in June 2003 in 2004-2006 program-budget formulation, in 
Page  15
-
14
-
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 27 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
3. 
To improve the performance of the national health system 
(
g)
issued in 2003 the 1997-2001 health public expenditure review, 
whose main recommendations have been reflected in 2004-2006 program-
budget formulation, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 35 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
(
h)
officially selected ten (10) under-served health districts for 
implementing new strategies and mechanisms to facilitate financial access 
of the poor to good quality health services, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 35 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
4. 
To improve access to quality basic education 
(i) 
adopted a detailed action plan to address major weaknesses 
identified  by the external evaluation of the educational reforms 
implementation carried out in 2003, and has completed the critical actions 
identified for the beginning of the 2003/2004 school year, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 37 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
and 
(j) 
adopted a detailed action plan to progressively increase the retention 
rate in primary education that includes measures to: 
(i) 
reduce repetition through the introduction of sub-cycles 
(eliminated repetition of grade 1 starting with the beginning of 
the 2003-2004 academic year), in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 37of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
(ii)  reduce schooling discontinuity and improve teacher 
availability (launched the decentralized recruitment of 1,200 
teachers for the 2003-2004 academic year), while giving 
priority to the most under-served departments (
départements
), 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 37 and 38  of 
the Letter of Development Policy; and 
Page  16
-
15
-
(iii) 
reduce dropouts in target areas (published the list of 62-
targeted schools to benefit from new school meal services 
during the 
 
2003-2004 academic year), in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 37 and 38 of the Letter of Development Policy.
 
