Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13983-M4K
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SOCIAL REFORM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APRIL 5, 1995
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar (MKD)
Dec.       Dec.  Dec.
1992       1993   1994
US$1.00          1235       44.45   40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP            -      Agency for the Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CEE           -      Central and Eastern Europe
EAG           -      Employment Assistance Group
ERL I         -      Economic Recovery Loan I
FESAC         -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
EB                   Employment Bureau
GSP           -      Gross Social Product
IDA           -      International Development Association
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
IS            -      International Shopping
LIB           -      Limited International Bidding
LRF           -      Labor Redeployment Fund
MCU           -      Media Coordination Unit
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MOLSP         -      Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NS            -      National Shopping
OECD          -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU           -      Project Coordination Unit
POM           -      Project Operational Manual
PR            -      Public Relations
SOE           -      Socially Owned Enterprise
SRTAP         -      Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
UN            -      United Nations
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
VAT           -      Value Added Tax



THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SOCIAL REFORM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary ...........................................  i
I.  INTRODUCTION  ................................................   1
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND ......................                                                                     3
A. Restructuring Program  for Socially-owned Enterprises  ....................   3
B. Labor Redeployment  .........................................   5
C. Public Information ...........................................   7
D. Social Benefit Programs  .......................................   8
Social Assistance  .........................................   8
Actuarial Analysis of Pensions .................................   9
Payroll Tax Compliance ....................................   11
E. IDA's Role and Strategy  ......................................    12
III. THE PROJECT                .......................                  .........................    13
A. Project Objectives and Components  ...............................   13
B. Project Description   .........................................   14
Labor Redeployment ......................................    14
Public Information Campaign   ................................    19
Social Benefit Programs ....................................   20
Enterprise Restructuring Technical Assistance  ....................... 22
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING  AND  IMPLEMENTATION   ......                               ..        ..........   23
A. Project Costs  .............................................   23
B. Project Financing   ..........................................   25
C. Project Implementation and Management ............................   26
D. Project Procurement Arrangements  ...............................   30
E. Disbursements  ............................................   33
F. Status of Preparation   ........................................   34
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited FYR Macedonia in December 1994. The
mission comprised David Fretwell (Senior Employment and Training Specialist, Task Manager); Mansoora
Rashid (Economist); Emily Andrews (Human Resources Economist); James Stevens (Operations Officer); Craig
Neal (Information Systems Specialist); and Ivan Stankovic (Consultant). Damika Somasundaram was
responsible for document processing. The Peer Reviewers are: Roy Pepper (PSDEP); and Verdon Staines
(EMTHR). Peter lanachkov is the Legal Counsel, Ralph W. Harbison is the Division Chief, and Rachel Lomax
is the Country Director.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ......             ...............             ......................   36
A. Benefits  ................................................   36
B. Risks ..................................................   36
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ....................  37
Tables
Table 1: Project Cost Summary by Component  ..............................  23
Table 2: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure  ....................... 23
Table 3: Cost Summary by Component and Source of Financing   .................... 25
Table 4: Summary by Expenditure Category and Financier  ........................ 25
Table 5: Procurement Arrangements  ...................................... 32
Annexes
ANNE"( I       Persons seeking employment (by age, years employed and time waiting for
employment)
ANNEX 1I       Number of Employees and Areas of Employment
ANNEX III   National Labor Bureau Activity
ANNEX IV    The Social Assistance System
ANNEX V        Criteria for Use of the Labor Redeployment Fund (LRF)
ANNEX VI   Procurement Plan
ANNEX VII  Technical Assistance Summary
Charts
Chart I        Project Implementation Responsibilities ........................... 26
MAP            IBRD No. 25501



THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SOCIAL REFORM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Amount:       SDR 9.0 Million
(US$ 14.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         10 years grace and 35 years maturity
Project
Objectives:    The success of Macedonia's economic reform program will depend upon whether the
Borrower can deal effectively with the social dimensions of reform. The objective of
the proposed Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project is to support the
Borrower's reform program by: (a) facilitating the restructuring of socially owned
enterprises through actions to reduce the individual and community impacts of worker
dislocation, (b) improving the delivery of social benefits and the collection of payroll
contributions for social benefits, (c) improving public awareness of the rationale for
reform policies, and (d) supporting the continuing implementation of the enterprise
restructuring program.
Project
Description:   The project will be implemented over four years by the Agency for the
Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital (Privatization Agency) in
cooperation with the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP), the State
Statistical Bureau, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Project cost is estimated at
US$ 17.1 million equivalent including contingencies, local taxes and duties. The cost
includes consulting services, fellowships and training, furniture, equipment and
materials, vehicles, financial resources for a Labor Redeployment Fund, and
incremental operating costs generated by the investments. The project comprises four
components:
a. Labor Redeployment (US$ 10.9 million). This component will support the
redeployment of labor in communities affected by large-scale enterprise restructuring
by: (i) analyzing the labor requirements of socially-owned enterprises (SOEs) which
are undergoing restructuring or privatization, (ii) providing pre-layoff adjustment
services to workers in SOEs scheduled for downsizing or liquidation, (iii) providing
post-layoff services' to the displaced workers, through a Labor Redeployment Fund,
to accelerate their return to productive employment, (iv) strengthening Employment
Bureau services for job seekers, and (v) establishing a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to support overall project implementation.
i/     These include programs for employment counseling and job placement, relocation, retraining, small business assistance, and local
economic development planning, but exclude severance payments which are financed separately through the Government's Special
Restructuring Program.



ii
b. Public Information Program (US$ 1.4 million). This component will support the
development of public media information programs to build public support for the
country's economic reform program. It will do this by: (i) creating a Media
Coordinating Unit in the Privatization Agency to oversee the public information
program, (ii) conducting surveys to assess public knowledge and opinion on economic
reform issues to guide the development of an effective public information program,
and (iii) developing and carrying out a public media program to inform the public of
the rationale for specific reform measures.
c. Social Benefit Programs (US$ 2.4 million). This component will help develop
more equitable, efficient, and financially sustainable social benefit programs by: (i)
developing objective poverty criteria as a basis for targeting social assistance, (ii)
developing actuarially-based pension planning, and (iii) improving payroll tax
collection by improving business registration procedures and strengthening audit and
enforcement controls.
d. Enterprise Restructuring Technical Assistance (US$ 2.4 million). This component
would provide technical assistance to: (i) establish a Trustee Unit at the Privatization
Agency to manage enterprise restructuring, (ii) accelerate privatization of viable SOEs
and liquidation of non-viable SOEs, (iii) impose stringent financial controls on
external resources provided to enterprises from the state budget or the banking
system, and (iv) identify the post-privatization technical assistance needs of SOEs.
Benefits:     The major benefit expected from the proposed project would be to foster public
acceptance of the country's economic reform program, thus helping ensure the
sustainability of the reform program. In addition, labor redeployment activities
supported by the project would help reduce public budgetary outlays and increase
national output by moving workers from jobs where they are not productive, and
receive public subsidies, to jobs where they are more productive. The employment
effect of some labor redeployment programns (i.e. training) may be reduced to some
extent if workers who benefit from the programs displace other workers. However,
even in these cases, the programs should contribute to increased productivity. The
project would also help restore long-run fiscal balance by improving tax collections
and by establishing a more equitable, efficient, and affordable basis for pensions and
social assistance.
Risks:        The principal risk associated with the proposed project is that a failure to impose a
hard budget constraint could permit further delays in real restructuring of the largest
loss-making enterprises, including needed labor shedding, thereby undermining the
basis for the project. The proposed FESAC and follow-up policy oversight expected
under subsequent operations would reduce this risk to an acceptable level. Moreover,
because the project is viewed by Borrower authorities as a pre-requisite to effective
enterprise reform, the project itself would help to mitigate this risk. However, in the
event that there are substantial delays or changes in the FESAC, that affect the special
restructuring program, the configuration of the project would need to be reconsidered
because is it specifically designed to support the special restructuring program.
Finally, the implementation capacity of some of the agencies involved is weak. The
project addresses this issue by providing technical assistance and requiring the
agencies to add small numbers of staff to support project implementation.



iii
FYR MACEDONIA
SOCIAL REFORM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs '
Local   Foreien    Total
------------US$ Million----------
I. Labor Redeployment
A. Enterprise Analysis                                         1.3       0.6        1.9
B. Pre-Layoff Services                                        0.4        0.3       0.7
C. Post-Layoff Services!'                                     5.1        0.9       6.0
D. Employment Bureau                                          0.6        1.0        1.6
E. Project Coordination                                       0.2        0.2       0.4
Sub-total                                       7.6       3.0       10.6
II. Marketing Economic Reform
A. Public Information Program                                 0.3        1.1       1.4
III. Social Benefit Programs
A. Social Assistance                                          0.4        1.1        1.5
B. Actuarial Planning of Pensions                             0.2        0.3       0.5
C. Social Benefit Contributions                               0.0        0.3       0.3
Sub-total                                       0.6       1.7        2.3
IV. Enterprise Restructuring Technical Assistance
A. Restructuring Program Technical Assistance                 0.8        1.5       2.3
Total Base Costs                                9.3       7.3       16.6
Physical Contingencies                                       0.1        0.1       0.2
Price Contingencies                                          0.1       0.2        0.3
Total Project Costs                             9.5       7.6       17.13'
Financing Plan
The former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia                                    3.1       0.0        3.1
IDA                                                          6.4        7.6      14.0
Total Financing Requirements                    9.5       7.6       17.1 3
1I Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
2/ Including Labor Redeployment Fund
3/ Including duties and taxes of US$0.1 million.






THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SOCIAL REFORM AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1           In this fourth year of political independence, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia faces a particularly difficult challenge: the transformation to a market economy in a
situation of extraordinary economic isolation. In parallel with the loss of markets in the former
Soviet bloc after 1989, the disintegration of Yugoslavia profoundly changed the environment in which
the enterprise sector operated. United Nations sanctions against Serbia and Montenegro brought
about a loss of the country's largest export market. In addition, the closure of the border with
Greece, its main trade route to the sea, limited access to alternative markets and increased the cost of
imported goods. As a result of these external events, gross social product (GSP)' has declined to
less than half its 1989 level, and unemployment has risen to approximately 30 percent of the labor
force.2
1.2           In 1992, the Borrower embarked on a stabilization and economic reform program,
which includes privatization of socially-owned enterprises (SOEs). In spite of the difficulties
associated with the collapse of external markets and imposed economic isolation, the Borrower
remains committed to this program. Under the first Economic Recovery Loan (ERL 1),3 the
Borrower adopted a new privatization law, and established the Agency for Privatization of Enterprises
with Social Capital (Privatization Agency) to assist enterprises in preparing restructuring plans and to
oversee the privatization of SOEs. As part of its Special Restructuring Program, the Privatization
Agency has identified 25 enterprises to be restructured or privatized on a priority basis. These 25
enterprises4 account for about four-fifths of losses in the enterprise sector in 1993 and currently
employ 56,700 workers -- about 13 percent of formal employment in the country. A parallel
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) will support policy reform in the
enterprise, banking and social sectors. Policy goals to be supported in the social sectors include: (a)
facilitating the transfer of labor from SOEs to new employment opportunities, (b) reforming the social
assistance system in an effort to make it sustainable and to improve employment incentives, and (c)
assisting the Pension Fund to be financially self sufficient.
1.3           While the FESAC establishes an appropriate policy setting for the enterprise
restructuring program, specific investments will be needed in several areas to implement the program.
1/     Gross Social Product is defined as the sum of national income and depreciation of the capital stock,
where national income is the value added of goods produced in the 'productive sector' (e.g. agriculture,
manufacturing, etc). GSP, unlike GDP, (i) does not include value added from services, and (ii) does not deduct
the costs of services in calculating the value added of goods produced in the economy.
2/     In July 1994, 195,000 individuals out of an active labor force of about 640,000 were registered as
unemployed at the National Employment Bureau.
3/     Loan 3703-MK and Credit 2564-MK, both approved on February 8, 1994.
4/     This includes 20 industrial enterprises and 3 agro-enterprises, plus one power utility and one railway.



2
First, the Borrower recognizes that labor redundancy is pervasive,5 but managers of the largest
enterprises and key Government officials are unwilling to proceed with large-scale labor shedding
unless targeted labor redeployment programs are established to assist the workers and communities
where labor shedding occurs. Second, public support for the transition is threatened by rising
unemployment, deteriorating living conditions, uncertainty about the political and economic future,
and public confusion about the rationale for specific reform policies. Public support for reform will
require better public awareness of the reasons why the Borrower is pursuing specific reform policies.
Third, because of high unemployment and sharply declining real wages, many families face the
prospect of poverty unless income support programs are maintained, yet the Borrower is finding it
increasingly difficult to maintain these programs in the face of a shrinking tax base and increasing
demand for benefits.6 Fourth, while initial cost-cutting plans have been developed for 25 of the
largest loss-making SOEs, there is a need for supplementary technical assistance in order to help the
SOEs implement these plans.'
5/     An August, 1994 survey of 25 large SOEs indicates that managers expect that one-third of staff will be
displaced during restructuring.
6/     Expenditures for social transfers and services, including unemployment benefits, social assistance,
social insurance, and child allowances, now consume one fourth of GSP.
7/     Completion of the enterprise restructuring program is a second tranche condition of the proposed
FESAC.



3
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Restructuring Program for Socially-owned Enterprises
2.1             The socially owned and mixed ownership sector is comprised of 1,856 enterprises8
employing 324,000 workers (53 percent of all formal sector employees), primarily in the trade,
construction, agricultural, and textile sectors.9   Overstaffing and redundancy are pervasive in these
enterprises. For example, an August 1994 survey of 25 large SOEs indicates that managers expect at
least one-third of their workers to be laid off during restructuring.
2.2            The former Yugoslavia introduced legislation in 1989 for the transformation of social
ownership (the Law on Social Capital). However, implementation was not well regulated and was
accompanied by abuses. As a consequence, the Borrower stopped all privatization and introduced the
Law for Transformation of Socially-Owned Enterprises in June 1993 (the Privatization Law). Under
the law, the Borrower targeted 1,468 enterprises for privatization; about half are socially owned and
half are mixed ownership enterprises. One hundred are large; 299 are medium; and 1,069 are
small.'" In total, they represent 79 percent of all socially owned and mixed ownership enterprises, 78
percent of SOE employment, and 53 percent of SOE assets. Eventually, most of the other SOEs must
also be privatized, with similar labor redeployment consequences.
2.3            At the same time, the private sector is making a growing contribution to economic
activity. At the end of February 1994, approximately 17,000 private sector enterprises were active in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The number of registered self-employed persons (and
their employees) increased from 15,219 in 1990 to 36,182 in 1993." While the majority of private
sector companies operate in services and trade, socially owned and mixed enterprises are concentrated
in production of iron and steel, non-ferrous metals, textiles, footwear and tobacco.
2.4            While many large enterprises have stopped paying wages with the collapse of product
markets, they have generally not dismissed any of their redundant workers, many of whom continue
8/     The Privatization Agency uses a figure of 1,856 enterprises -- 1,019 socially owned and 837 mixed
ownership -- and does not count subsidiaries as separate enterprises. Some other government agencies use a
slightly higher figure, counting individual subsidiaries as separate enterprises.
9/     See Annex II for a profile of employment by sector.
10/    According to the Law for Transformation, small enterprises are defined as those which meet at least
two of the following criteria: having (i) less than 50 employees, (ii) annual corporate income of less than 8,000
times the average monthly wage in the economy, and (iii) average assets of less than 6,000 times the average
monthly wage in the economy. For medium enterprises, the criteria are: having (i) less than 250 employees,
(ii) corporate income less than 40,000 times average monthly wage in the economy, and (iii) assets of less than
30,000 times the average monthly wage in the economy. All others are defined as large enterprises.
11/    This figure peaked at 38,698 in 1991, at least according to official statistics. It is probable, however,
that informal unregistered economic activity - and employment - outside the formal sector continues to grow but
is not reflected in official figures.



4
to collect wages, or, more typically, to accumulate lOUs from their employers. The retention of
redundant labor is inefficient because it delays the reallocation of labor to alternative productive
employment, thus lowering labor productivity, increasing enterprise losses, and impeding enterprise
restructuring. While the retention of redundant labor may reflect the unwillingness of enterprise
managers to inflict higher rates of unemployment on their communities, it may also represent a
rational response to prevailing employment and social benefit policies. For example, layoffs are
deterred by laws requiring employers to give six months notice and provide up to 12 months of
severance pay to dismissed workers (in addition to back wages), as well as by a provision that poor
households headed by an employed worker receive higher social assistance benefits than equally poor
households whose head is not employed.
2.5           The Borrower has established a Special Restructuring Program (SRP) to deal with 25
large politically sensitive loss-making enterprises which include 20 industrial and 3 agro-enterprises,
plus the national railways and the national electric power utility. These enterprises represent about 10
percent of formal sector employment. With the help of bilateral consultants, diagnostic studies have
already been carried out for each of the enterprises and loss-reduction plans have been adopted,
including, where applicable, general plans for large-scale labor shedding.
2.6           Under the Special Restructuring Program and the FESAC, the Borrower will adopt a
number of measures to strengthen enterprise management and impose financial discipline. The 23
industrial and agro-enterprises will be given up to one year to demonstrate that they can generate a
positive operating cash flow (before debt service payments). During this time, they will benefit from
a moratorium on debt service payments to banks, but they will be forced to run on a cash basis and
will not be permitted to increase their arrears to creditors. They will also have no further access to
bank credits for either investments or general working capital requirements. However, on an
exceptional basis, they will be able to obtain self-liquidating trade credits if these are needed in order
to fill specific firm and profitable orders from creditworthy customers. Limited amounts of funds
from the budget will be made available to cover temporary cash shortages for working capital.
Enterprises which cannot come forward with self-financing business plans (including self-liquidating
credits) will be subjected to further cost cutting/downsizing measures or liquidation. Enterprises
which succeed in operating on a positive cash flow basis will be eligible for financial restructuring,
including debt to equity swaps. The two utilities will be restructured with a focus on improving cost-
efficiency, reducing excess labor costs, and dispensing with non-core activities (e.g., guest houses) as
an initial step in a long-term rationalization of their activities. It is the Borrower's intention that all
of the 23 industrial and agro-enterprises will either have undergone or have entered the process of
privatization or liquidation by the completion of the Special Reform Program.
2.7            To ensure that the rules of the SRP are followed and that cost-reduction plans are
implemented, the enterprises will be placed in the receivership of a Trustee Unit reporting to a special
interninisterial committee, chaired by the Minister of Economy, located at the Privatization Agency,
and supported by a team of sectoral advisers and other support staff. The Trustee will be vested with
the full rights of ownership of the enterprises, with full legal and fiduciary powers -- including the
power to remove and replace non-performing enterprise managers and to control the cash flow of
enterprises. The Privatization Agency has obtained some expertise from several bilateral donors
(including Japan and the USA) plus assistance from volunteer agencies to help establish the Trustee
Unit and to provide assistance, including shadow managers, to SOEs. However, during appraisal, the
Borrower requested that additional financing for technical assistance be added to the Social Reform



5
and Technical Assistance Project to ensure that there are sufficient resources to establish the Trustee
Unit, and provide shadow managers for all 25 enterprises.
B. Labor RcdeDlovment
2.8           Labor redeployment has three distinct and mutually reinforcing phases. First, an
analysis needs to be carried out to define the labor and social assets to be divested during enterprise
restructuring. Second, pre-layoff assistance needs to be provided within the respective enterprises to
advise workers of alternative income support and employment options. Third, post-layoff services
need to be provided to displaced workers, based on the demand identified during the pre-layoff phase.
The status of labor redeployment under these three phases in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia is described below.
2.9           Analysis of Enterprise Labor Requirements. The development of revised labor force
requirements at the enterprise level is one of the first steps that should be taken in the process of
enterprise restructuring. This analysis should occur in parallel with the development of revised
financial and business plans for the SOEs because excess labor is one of the key issues that must be
addressed in developing these plans. In the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, determining the
labor requirements for individual enterprises has been hindered by a lack of information regarding the
qualifications, skills and characteristics of workers and the qualifications and skill profiles that are
needed by the enterprise. This deficiency is exacerbated by the reluctance of SOE managers to deal
with the concept of layoffs and redeployment, in part because they lack the knowledge and resources
to assist displaced workers.
2.10          At this first stage of analysis, revised labor force specifications provide general
information about the number of workers affected by restructuring, including their skill levels and
demographic characteristics. Existing and optimal staffing levels are compared, based on revised
financial and business plans, but specific workers to be affected are not yet identified. The initial
enterprise-level analysis would include current labor force profiles, as well as information on the
divestiture of social infrastructure. While SOEs in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia do
not generally provide housing, schools, or clinics for their employees, other social assets -- including
farms, vacation villages, hotels, and shops -- are candidates for privatization.
2.11          Pre-lavoff assistance. Once a formal decision is made to restructure an enterprise,
individual redundant workers must be identified and given advance notice. Immediate pre-layoff
assistance should be provided at the enterprise level, which will serve to reduce labor-management
conflicts and social tensions, as well as communicate valuable information concerning post-layoff
options and services. Pre-layoff assistance should include information about alternative employment
opportunities within the enterprise, employment opportunities outside the enterprise, eligibility for
income support programs, and the purpose and availability of active labor market programs, such as
small business assistance, public works opportunities, and retraining, all aimed at accelerating the
return of displaced workers to productive employment.
2.12          At present, no public or private group provides systematic assistance prior to layoffs.
SOEs have managed labor force adjustments through "soft reductions," including the use of voluntary
retirement, "forced holidays", laying off of problem employees, and provision of severance pay.



6
International experience'2 indicates, however, that successful labor force adjustment programs should
distribute the responsibility for redeploying workers among the State and other social partners,
including unions, enterprises, and the communities. These techniques are most effective when
assistance is provided during the period of advance notice, prior to actual layoff.
2.13          Post-layoff services. The state's interest in providing post-layoff services is to
facilitate the transition to alternative productive employment and reduce pressure on the public
budget. After layoffs occur, workers will adjust to their new situation in a variety of ways. Some
workers will find other jobs rapidly, while others may decide to exit the labor market, retiring or
staying at home with their families. Many laid-off workers are likely to apply for income support
payments, such as unemployment insurance and social assistance. Some may also request and benefit
from in-depth counseling and employment services to help them locate alternative employment, or
from public works employment. Displaced workers whose skills are not in demand may benefit from
retraining. Relocation assistance may be useful if jobs are more plentiful in other localities.
Development of small businesses may also be a viable alternative for some displaced workers.
2.14          In the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the National Employment Bureau,
which operates 30 local employment bureaus, is the public agency charged with providing assistance
to the unemployed, particularly through the administration of unemployment benefits. (See Annex III
for information about the configuration of local offices.) The Employment Bureau maintains a job
vacancy registry, matches job seekers with job vacancies, administers the unemployment benefit
program and provides a limited number of other services for the unemployed. It facilitates only
limited re-training for the unemployed, contracting through existing training institutions. About 800
(0.4 percent) people were re-trained in 1994 -- a figure that is considerably lower than the 5 to 10
percent of labor force retraining found in many OECD and CEE countries. Employment Bureau
staff are primarily occupied with processing unemployment benefits, and have little time to help the
unemployed find or prepare themselves for new jobs."3
2.15          The Employment Bureau currently lacks the financial and human resources to improve
or expand on existing services. It lacks the trained staff and appropriate materials required to offer
up-to-date job placement and counseling services, or to organize retraining and other active labor
market programs. Similarly, resources are not available to offer pre-layoff, in-plant services, nor to
organize a broader array of post-layoff services in communities affected by large-scale layoffs.
Furthermore, the staff to client ratio at the Employment Bureau, at 1 to 525, is considerably less than
the 1 to 100 ratio commonly found in OECD countries, where labor redeployment services reflect the
needs of a market economy. 14
12/    Examples include the Canadian Industrial Adjustment Service, the Treuhaund in Eastern Germany, and
British Coal.
13/    The Bureau does provide a job vacancy registry. The ratio of vacancies to job seekers is currently
around I to 20. However, this ratio, the unemployment rate, and the staff-to-client ratio should be interpreted
with caution. A large share of "job-seekers' have been registered for many years and may either be working,
have other sources of income, or have left the labor market. For example, in 1992, about half of those on the
unemployment rolls had been registered for over three years.
14/    E.g., I to 9 in Sweden, 1 to 120 in Portugal, and I to 375 in Turkey (which does not have an
unemployment benefit system to administer).



7
2.16          In summary, the need for labor redeployment services is accentuated by the structural
changes in employment that will result from changing patterns of ownership, changes in the size and
sectoral distribution of employment, and by the increased emphasis on SOE productivity. Since
enterprise restructuring can affect many workers at once, labor redeployment assistance should be
directly linked to the privatization process and tailored to sectoral and geographic circumstances.
Enterprises need to analyze the impact of restructuring on their labor force, provide pre-layoff
assistance in consultation with community and labor representatives, and organize post-layoff services
for displaced workers, using local service providers.
C. Public Information
2.17          The human impact of structural reform in transition economies is prone to create
public dissatisfaction, nostalgia for the previous system, and the sentiment that the market economy is
responsible for unfulfilled expectations of the transition. This situation in turn, tends to erode public
support for economic reforms, which further reduces their chances of success. These trends are
evident in several former planned economies -- including Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Russia,
where communist or socialist parties have made strong showings in recent elections. Should public
opinion change in a similar direction in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Borrower's
economic reform program could face insurmountable opposition.
2.18          Little information is currently available on public attitudes towards the emerging
market economy and the Borrower's continuing program of structural economic change. Until
recently, no Ministry has been fully cognizant of the need to monitor and inform public opinion,
although, in theory, the Ministry of Information might have been expected to perform this function.
That Ministry has not functioned effectively for some time, however, having no top-level Ministerial
appointment and no clear statement of mission.
2.19          The Privatization Agency, in recognizing the need for effective, interactive public
communication in the context of the privatization program, has taken the lead in developing a Public
Information Campaign. As a first step, the Agency has engaged a private firm to create an
advertising campaign aimed at improving public understanding of the enterprise privatization
program. Subsequent steps taken by the Privatization Agency include employing an international
public relations expert, and providing for training of the Director of the Agency's Public Relations
Center at a six-week external training program. 15
2.20          Mass media campaigns have played an important role worldwide in social and
political reforms undertaken by governmental and international organizations (UN, UNESCO,
UNICEF, etc.). A variety of mass media techniques, including public relations, media events, and
advertising campaigns, have been used to gain public support for, and involvement in, a broad range
of issues. For example, successful campaigns have been waged to help alleviate hunger in Somalia,
to promote family planning in developing countries, to encourage breast feeding worldwide, and to
reduce drug and tobacco abuse in western countries. Furthermore, indications are that the impact of
media on public opinion in the former Yugoslavia has been significant during the past several years.
15/    These latter two activities are financed by USAID.



8
A media campaign to support the labor redeployment effort should be launched if the country's
economic reform program is to gain the public support which it requires for success.
D. Social Benefit Programs
2.21          Several income support and poverty prevention programs, including unemployment
benefits, social assistance and social insurance systems, are already in place. The financial viability
of these systems -- in particular, the social assistance and social insurance systems -- is being strained
as the demand for assistance increases and the contribution base shrinks. There is an immediate need
to launch preparatory activities to make social benefit programs more equitable, more efficient, and
more financially sustainable in the new economic context.
Social Assistance
2.22          The decline in economic activity and its potentially adverse impact on household
welfare led the Borrower in 1992 to establish a means-tested social assistance system.'6 The program
has many positive attributes. It has delivered social assistance benefits to a rapidly increasing number
of clients. The number of beneficiary households has increased dramatically, from 9,000 in 1992 to
nearly 50,000 in 1994. The program has also established social minima (para. 2.23), which take into
account household assets, and has attempted to maintain work incentives in the system. However, an
analysis of the social assistance system suggests that the program could benefit from improvements in
five areas:
(a)    Fiscal solvency. Existing benefit levels and eligibility criteria, which provide too
much for too many recipients, have contributed to the fiscal unsustainability of the
program. In September 1994, the Borrower was two months in arrears in making
social assistance benefit payments.
(b)    Work incentives. The program contains disincentives to work. Benefit levels are too
high and initial earnings from work are effectively taxed at 100 percent.
(c)    Equity. Households are not treated equitably in the system.  The current social
minima do not accurately reflect the different consumption needs of different
households.
(d)    Program integration. The system is not well integrated with other social welfare
programs. Parallel programs such as child allowances pursue similar objectives
through different means, and are not adequately reflected in the design of social
assistance.
(e)    Targeting effectiveness. The use of an average, rather than a minimum, consumption
basket as the basis for social assistance eligibility makes the social assistance program
ineffective in targeting the very poor. The basket is not adjusted for non-food or
minimum nutritional requirements, nor for rural/urban or regional price differences.
16/    See Annex IV for a detailed description of the social assistance program.



9
2.23          To transform the social welfare program into a system that equitably and efficiently
targets the poor, the Borrower needs to establish a poverty line based on a minimum consumption
basket. This poverty line could be the basic foundation for: (a) identifying and targeting the poorest
households in the economy and thereby improving equity; (b) establishing social assistance minimum
benefits and making them consistent across cash benefit systems; and (c) maintaining work incentives
in the program that are critical to the functioning of a market economy.
2.24          Identification of the poor, and policy changes to improve efficiency and equity within
the system, can only have the desired impact if responsible Government institutions have the
administrative and management skills to effectively deliver benefits to the poor. In the past, Social
Assistance Offices served as counseling centers for the "socially handicapped population". The
means-tested social assistance program was superimposed on this system without any significant
accompanying changes in the staffing, administrative capacity, information flows, enforcement
mechanisms and physical capital requirements of the system. Although the staff to client ratio for the
whole program has decreased from 1/35 to 1/77, it remains reasonable by OECD standards. But the
distribution of staff does not match the distribution of clients across districts. 17 The system is not
well-linked to other cash benefit program delivery points, such as employment offices and child
allowance centers, and the regional and head offices of the social assistance program are not well
integrated. Visits to Social Assistance Offices and discussions with Ministry of Labor officials
suggest that these institutional constraints have created: (a) difficulties in verifying claims, (b) delays
in claim processing, (c) inadequate monitoring of recipients, and (d) limited enforcement of
regulations. These problems are particularly acute in areas where the recent increase in claims has
been most dramatic. An in-depth evaluation of the system could help the Borrower assess what
measures are required to improve the system.
Actuarial Analysis of Pensions
2.25          Deficits in the pension and disability insurance program threaten both the Borrower's
budget and future pension payments. The program provides old-age, survivors' and disability
pensions that are related to earnings and years of service. The pay-as-you-go pension fund is
financed primarily by a 20 percent payroll tax on wages'8. The Borrower needs to be able to project
future payroll tax revenues (para. 2.31) and pension expenditures so as to control fund finances and
place the fund in financial balance.
2.26          The Pension Fund is currently in deficit'9 because of increased expenditure obligations
and dwindling revenues. This situation occurred, in part, because in the initial years of the transition,
the Borrower encouraged early retirement as a solution to labor force redundancy. As a result, the
Pension Fund lost 85,000 contributing wage-earners, while the number of new pensioners rose by
70,000. Approximately one-third of these new pensioners were early retirees on full pensions.
17/    See Annex IV for a summary of local office staffing.
18/    Farmers' contributions are based on imputed income related to land valuation.
19/    The Fund's deficit was MKD 3.3 billion in 1994, equivalent to 0.9 percent of GSP. In the absence of
reform measures, the deficit is projected to rise to MKD 2.0 billion, or about 1.1 percent of GSP, in 1995.



10
2.27          In 1994, changes in the pension law sought to improve this adverse financial situation
through a series of measures. Early retirement and early retirement buyouts were ended; the pension
age was increased for some pensioners; the maximum replacement rate was reduced; some non-
pension expenditures were transferred to the State budget, and the payroll tax was raised from 18 to
20 percent. In addition, legislation was enacted which restricts pension indexing in 1994 to a rate less
than that of inflation. Together, these changes are credited with maintaining current benefit payment
delays at two to three months instead of the five-month backlog that would have occurred without the
legislation.
2.28          Nonetheless, projections by the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the World Bank indicate that revenues are not expected to
cover expenditures in 1994 or 1995, despite the current restrictive indexing procedures and an
infusion of funds from excise taxes. One way to control the 1995 deficit would be to continue some
degree of restrictive indexing in 1995. Yet this solution would adversely affect the standard of living
of pensioners at the minimum -- possibly forcing these individuals into poverty. Furthermore, this
would represent only a short-run solution to a longer-term issue. In the longer run, demographic
patterns resulting from improved mortality and lower birth rates are likely to lead to an aging
population that will require still greater government resources by the next century. This situation may
be exacerbated if the economy expands more slowly than expected in the long run.
2.29          In light of the high payroll tax rate, problematic payroll tax collection, and continuing
infusions of revenue from the budget, changes in the basic benefit structure will be required to
achieve fiscal sustainability. The Borrower will need to take measures to change pension entitlement,
which may include changes in: a) the age of benefit eligibility, b) the number of contribution years, c)
the benefit formula, d) indexing procedures, or e) the substitution of a defined-contribution, funded
tier of benefits for a portion of the pension payments which are currently provided under the defined-
benefit, pay-as-you-go public pension program.
2.30          Sound long-term policy requires an actuarial assessment of the pension system that
can help the Borrower to analyze the impact of different policy prescriptions on the Pension Fund's
future financial status. Furthermore, an ongoing program of actuarial analysis is needed to routinely
project Pension Fund balances under different economic assumptions to determine the sensitivity of
fund balances to more and less favorable economic conditions. The current projection capabilities
available to the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund are limited, projecting fund balances only one
year ahead. Assistance is needed to establish an actuarial capacity within the Pension and Disability
Insurance Fund to assess the impact of demographic and economic factors on future pension
obligations. An actuarial model is also needed to simulate the impact of specific policy changes on
the Fund's financial balance.



11
Payroll Tax Compliance
2.31           Old-age, disability and survivors' pensions, health insurance, and unemployment
benefits' are funded primarily through payroll tax contributions levied on wages.2' These taxes,
which currently total about 30 percent of net wages, are collected monthly at the time wage payments
are made to employees. The high payroll tax rate encourages tax evasion and promotes informal
sector activity by creating incentives to underreport wages. The result is lower payroll tax payments
and reduced government revenues. If payroll tax revenue is diminished, payments for pensions,
health insurance, and unemployment benefits cannot be sustained.
2.32           Since 1989, increased pension obligations and declining revenues have created a
deficit in the pension fund despite a substantial influx of funds from the budget. Current tax losses
are perceived to stem from three sources: (a) delayed wage payments by socially-owned enterprises,
resulting in delayed payroll tax contributions; (b) the failure of private-sector employers to register
their business activities and make payroll and other tax contributions; and (c) the misrepresentation of
wages by private-sector employers and subsequent underpayment of payroll tax contributions. While
revenue shortfall is not the sole source of the current fiscal deficit, poor private sector compliance
will increasingly jeopardize pension fund balances as employment shifts away from socially-owned
enterprises and towards the private sector.
2.33           Current collection procedures require that all enterprises, companies, and self-
employed individuals conducting business activities register their businesses and make all payments to
suppliers, employees, and the fiscal authorities through accounts held with the Bureau of Payment
Operations.22 Payroll tax contributions and wage disbursements are made simultaneously. In general,
socially owned enterprises operate in full compliance, unless their wages are in arrears or made
through in-kind payments. By contrast, private sector employers may avoid payroll tax obligations by
limiting wage payments made through the Bureau of Payment Operations (substituting cash or in-kind
benefits) or by simply not registering their business. To date, this type of under-reporting has not
been well-controlled.
2.34           To address these issues, there is a need to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of
current procedures to collect payroll tax contributions and to develop a set of recommendations to
enhance revenue collection. Yet payroll tax collection cannot be considered on a stand-alone basis in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Unlike many Eastern European countries, the Pension
and Disability Insurance Fund does not operate a separate contributions collection mechanism.
20/    The Employment Fund provides financing for unemployment compensation, training, and
reimbursement for relocation. The Fund is created from a 1.5 percent payroll tax and was in approximate
equilibrium in December 1994. The level of benefits is tied to previous wages, but in fact 90 percent of the
unemployed receive a flat rate benefit of 80 percent of the minimum wage. The maximum duration is 24
months.
21/    Pension and disability insurance is financed by a 20 percent payroll tax on wages (although farmers'
contributions are based on imputed income related to land valuation). Health insurance is financed through a
8.6 percent payroll tax.
22/    Self-employed persons may use commercial banks for this purpose. In the future, other businesses will
be permitted to transfer their business accounts to commercial banks as well.



12
Payroll tax collection is the responsibility of the Public Revenue Office which also collects income
and profit taxes. Personal income taxes are withheld in conjunction with wage payments, in the same
manner as payroll tax contributions. Consequently, when wages are under-reported, both personal
income taxes and payroll contributions are reduced as well. Furthermore, non-compliance in business
registration not only reduces payroll tax contributions, but reduces the revenue from profit taxes and
income taxes. For these reasons, the issue of payroll tax compliance is intertwined with other areas
of taxation. Remedial action must address payroll tax compliance in conjunction with the broader tax
system.
E. IDA's Role and StrateEv
2.35          Successful enterprise restructuring in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will
require effective programs to ease the social costs of large-scale layoffs. Public support for this and
other aspects of the country's economic reform program will also require better public understanding
of the reasons for specific reform measures. The project actions to mitigate the social impacts of
reform are, in this sense, a cost of building political support for the country's economic reform
program. The Bank Group is well suited to assist in developing these actions because of its
experience with similar programs in other countries in the region, and because of its involvement in
other aspects of the country's economic reform program. The current retention of surplus labor
lowers labor productivity, increases enterprise losses, impedes enterprise restructuring, delays the
potential reallocation of labor to productive alternative employment, and consumes state budget
resources in the form of direct or indirect subsidies.'2 The basic rationale is that moving workers
from jobs where they are not productive and receive public subsidies to jobs where they are
productive and do not receive public subsidies reduces public budget outlays and increases national
output. Public budget outlays will decline to the extent that redundant workers who are to be
redeployed to new jobs now receive direct or indirect government subsidies, as many do. Even if
displaced workers are not successful in finding productive jobs, public budget outlays will decline if,
as is expected, the costs of labor redeployment measures, including income support, are less than the
cost of subsidies to keep workers in unproductive jobs. At the same time, national output will
increase to the extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are new jobs or higher productivity
jobs than they would otherwise have been.24
2.36          The proposed project directly supports the FESAC and is consistent with the draft
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which are being processed in parallel with the project. The
proposed project supports social reforms defined in the CAS including establishing new poverty lines
and poverty monitoring systems and facilitating labor redeployment. The project has been prepared
in coordination with bilateral and multilateral donors (Sweden, USAID, and the EU). Project design
reflects the recommendation of the June 1994 Consultative Group Meeting.
23/    Workers in loss-making socially-owned enterprises receive direct and indirect public subsidies in the
form of subsidized wages, other subsidized inputs, subsidies to the banking system, and inter-enterprise arrears.
The total cost of these subsidies typically exceeds by a significant margin the combined cost of unemployment
benefits, social assistance, and targeted labor redeployment measures.
24/    Specialized counseling, requalification training, and improved job placement services have been found
to raise productivity by bringing about more efficient matching of job seekers and the skill requirements of
existing jobs (OECD Employment Outlook, 1993, page ix).



13
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Components
3.1           Project Objectives. The success of Macedonia's economic reform program will depend
upon whether the Borrower can deal effectively with the social dimensions of reform. The objective
of the proposed Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project is to support the Borrower's reform
program by:
(a)    facilitating the restructuring of socially owned enterprises through actions to reduce
the individual and community impacts of worker dislocation,
(b)    improving the delivery of social benefits and the collection of payroll contributions for
social benefits,
(c)    improving public awareness of the rationale for reform policies, and
(d)    supporting the continuing implementation of the enterprise restructuring program.
3.2           Project Components. The Project,. to be implemented over four years, comprises
four components with a total estimated cost of approximately US$ 17.1 million. The components are
structured as follows:
(a)    Labor Redeployment (US$ 10.9 million). This component will support the
redeployment of labor in communities affected by large-scale enterprise restructuring
by: (i) analyzing the labor requirements of socially-owned enterprises (SOEs) which
are undergoing restructuring or privatization, (ii) providing pre-layoff adjustment
services to workers in SOEs scheduled for downsizing or liquidation, (iii) providing
post-layoff services to the displaced workers, through a Labor Redeployment Fund, to
accelerate their return to productive employment, (iv) strengthening Employment
Bureau services for job seekers, and (v) establishing a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to support overall project implementation.
(b)    Public Information Program (US$ 1.4 million). This component will support the
development of public media information programs in order to build support for the
country's economic reform program. It will do this by: (i) creating a Media
Coordinating Unit in the Privatization Agency to oversee the public information
program, (ii) conducting surveys to assess public knowledge and opinion on economic
reform issues to guide the development of an effective public information program,
and (iii) developing and carrying out a public media program to inform the public of
the rationale for specific reform measures.
25/    Detailed Project Action Matrices, including goals, objectives and activities, are contained in Section I
of the Project Operational Manual.



14
(c)    Social Benefit Programs (US$ 2.4 million). This component will help develop more
equitable, efficient, and financially sustainable social benefit programs by: (i)
developing objective poverty criteria as a basis for targeting social assistance, (ii)
developing actuarially-based pension planning, and (iii) improving payroll tax
collection by improving business registration procedures and strengthening audit and
enforcement controls.
(d)    Enterprise Restructurinig Technical Assistance (US$ 2.4 million). This component
would provide technical assistance to: (i) establish a Trustee Unit at the Privatization
Agency to manage enterprise restructuring, (ii) accelerate privatization of viable SOEs
and liquidation of non-viable SOEs, (iii) impose stringent financial controls on
external resources provided to enterprises from the state budget or the banking
system, and (iv) identify the post-privatization technical assistance needs of SOEs.
B. Project Description
Labor Redeployment (US$ 10.9 million)
3.3            The Borrower is embarking on a major restructuring and privatization program of the
largest loss-making enterprises. This component supports that program by financing short-term labor
redeployment activities linked to the privatization program. With one exception, the component's five
sub-components would be administered by the Privatization Agency to ensure direct linkage with the
privatization program. The exception is the Employment Bureau sub-component, which would be
administered by the National Employment Bureau26. The Project would provide financing for: 76
months of international technical assistance, 83 months of international training, 538 months of local
technical assistance, equipment (primarily automation equipment for the Employment Bureau sub-
component), and financial resources for the Labor Redeployment Fund (LRF) to pay for services for
displaced workers. The five subcomponents are described below:
3       2.4   Enterprise Analysis (US$ 2.0 million). The Project would provide technical
assistance27 to: (a) develop a framework at Privatization Agency to help SOEs identify labor and
social infrastructure to be divested during privatization; and (b) use the framework to undertake
analyses of Socially-Owned Enterprise (SOE) requirements and make recommendations to facilitate
the privatization program.
(a)    Specific activities required to develop a framework for SOE analysis would include:
(i) establishment of an Employment Assistance Group (EAG) of six staff to manage all
Privatization Agency labor redeployment programs; (ii) identification of existing
national labor legislation, regulations, and sectoral agreements that may affect layoffs;
(iii) design of techniques for matching existing and future SOE labor force
26/    See para. 4.8 and the Project Operational Manual for detailed descriptions of implementation
arrangements for all components.
27/    Assistance would include 22 months of international consultants, 400 months of local consultants
including six long-term consultant staff for the EAG, and 31 months of external training.



15
requirements, including identification of labor force characteristics and methods for
obtaining new management's labor requirements from managers and advisors, such as
international comparators; and (iv) development of techniques for acquiring and
displaying information on the social services that SOEs are making available to
employees.
(b)    Applying the above framework to each of the 20 to 30 SOEs which request assistance
would involve: (i) defining local labor regulations that may affect SOE labor divesture
decisions; (ii) analyzing existing and future labor requirements, then performing an
analysis netting out future labor requirements to define the numbers of staff to be
redeployed and/or divested; and (iii) identifying the social services made available via
the enterprise along with recommendations for divesture and an analyses of labor
displacement.
3.5            Pre-Lavoff Assistance (US$ 0.7 million). The Project would provide technical
assistance2l to support the: (a) development of labor adjustment planning techniques at the
Privatization Agency for use in affected SOEs; and (b) provision of pre-layoff services in SOEs to
make workers aware of alternatives for income support and employment, thereby increasing public
acceptance of the labor shedding program and reducing the duration of unemployment.
(a)    Labor adjustment planning activities would include development of: (i) procedures and
advance notice regulations for triggering the provision of pre-layoff labor adjustment
services to SOEs; (ii) sample agreements for delivery of services from the
Privatization Agency technical assistance contractor to SOEs; (iii) materials to
promote the labor adjustment prograrn to SOEs/communities and define the demand
for these services; and (iv) training for a cadre of at least five local technical advisors
who would to assist SOEs in implementing pre-layoff adjustment services.
(b)    Providing pre-layoff services at the 20-30 SOE sites which request assistance would
entail: (i) holding orientation sessions for SOE management and labor representatives
to publicize the nature of the labor adjustment planning process; (ii) finalizing
agreements between the Privatization Agency and the SOE for the provision of
planning services; and (iii) providing SOE-level labor adjustment planning services
such as developing a detailed inventory of displaced workers, establishing eligibility of
workers for income support, providing initial job counseling and identifying which
workers may want to participate in active labor programs.
3.6           Post-Layoff Services (US$ 6.0 million). The Project would provide technical
assistance and financial resources29 to: (a) develop a framework to enable the Privatization Agency
28/    Assistance would include seven months of international consultants, 96 months of local consultants, and
12 months of external training.
29/    Assistance would include 27 months of international consultants, 26 months of local consultants, 30
months of external training, and the US$5.0 million LRF.



16
to provide assistance to help SOEs in organizing labor redeployment services for displaced workers;
and (b) deliver services, through a LRF, to workers displaced from SOEs30.
(a)    Developing a framework for post-layoff assistance would include: (i) designing
procedures (following principles and criteria agreed with the Bank)3' for disbursement
of resources through the LRF, including sample contracts to be signed by the
Privatization Agency and SOEs for use of LRF funds; (ii) developing materials and
disseminating information to SOEs and local organizations regarding the availability of
LRF funds for labor services, sub-contracting procedures, and criteria to obtain and
use these funds (following criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank); and (iii)
developing a system to monitor the use of funds and evaluate the impact of local labor
adjustment services (see POM for project monitoring and outcome indicators).
(b)    Delivering post-layoff services in the 20-30 SOEs in the SRP would involve: (i)
consummating contracts between the Privatization Agency and SOEs, or local
organizations, for receipt and use of LRF funds; (ii) delivering services to displaced
workers through sub-contracts between the SOE/local organizations and local service
providers; (iii) providing limited technical assistance from the Privatization Agency
technical assistance contractor to local service providers to assist them in developing
selected services, including small business incubators, model small business assistance
centers, model public works programs, and up to ten community economic
development plans; and (iv) monitoring and evaluating the organization and
implementation of programs by SOEs and sub-contractors.
3.7           The LRF would be established as a budget line at the Privatization Agency and would
finance a range of demand-driven services, including career and employment counseling, relocation
assistance, retraining programs, transitional public works programs, small business assistance, small
business incubators, and local economic development planning. The mix of services financed would
vary according to the characteristics and preferences of the community and the displaced workers.
There would no pre-determined allocation of resources to any one service offered under the LRF.
SOEs and/or other community groups delivering services would be reimbursed for the costs of the
services according to principles and criteria agreed with the Bank (see Annex V).
3.8           Key principles driving the use of the LRF are as follows: (a) the supply of services
would be demand-driven in response to requests from displaced workers and advisory input from the
social partners; (b) communities would be eligible for LRF support only if they contain an SOE
which is undergoing a Privatization Agency approved privatization/restructuring programn; (c)
individuals would be eligible for LRF financed services if they have been given notice of dismissal,
or have been dismissed from SOEs undergoing a Privatization Agency approved
privatizationlrestructuring program; (d) the costs of services reimbursed from the LRF to service
providers would be based on the average cost per dismissed worker times the number of workers
receiving services; (e) the impact of services for displaced workers would be evaluated on the basis
30/    SOEs would norrnally organize post-layoff services; however, in some cases (e.g., when an SOE was
liquidated) other community organizations (e.g., labor unions) could be selected to organize post-layoff services.
31/    Described in paragraphs 3.6 et seq.



17
of job placement information which must be provided by the service provider; and (f) labor mobility
among displaced workers would be facilitated by allowing workers in communities qualifying for
assistance under the LRF to be eligible for services in their communities or in other communities
receiving assistance under the Fund.32
3.9           When an SOE, or other community organization, has been identified and approved by
the EAG as being eligible to receive LRF funds, the SOE and Privatization Agency EAG would sign
a contract which controls the use funds. The SOE would subsequently be responsible for organizing
the services through sub-contracts with local service providers. The Privatization Agency/SOE
contract would specify the: (a) types of sub-projects and services for which funds could be used; (b)
local private and public agencies which would be eligible to sub-contract to deliver these services; (c)
costs which would be reimbursed for services delivered; (d) minimum requirements for fiscal and
program reporting; and (e) sub-contracting procedures. The SOE would be responsible for organizing
services based on labor market demand and needs identified by workers during the pre-layoff
analysis. 33
3.10          Emplonnent Bureau (US$1.7 million). The Project would provide technical
assistance and equipment34 to strengthen the ability of the Employment Bureau to provide cost
effective services to job seekers35 by: (a) developing model local employment bureau services; and
(b) completing automation of local employment bureaus in order to improve service delivery and
cost-effectiveness.
(a)    Developing services to be delivered by the local employment bureau would include:
(i) reviewing procedures for operation of local offices, including client registration,
cash benefit payments, organization and delivery of active labor services;
(ii) expanding employer services and refining vacancy identification procedures; (iii)
developing job search, job club, and simple client administered aptitude and interest
assessment instruments for use with employment bureau clients; and (iv) developing
systematic techniques (i.e., semi-annual qualitative and quantitative surveys of local
enterprises) to supplement job vacancy information (see activity (ii) above) and
improve medium term labor market information. All activities would include staff
training. The National Employment Bureau could obtain additional financing to
support development and staffing of additional local employment bureau offices,
32/    The Enterprise Assistance Group at the Privatization Agency would be responsible, with the assistance
of consultants, for developing detailed procedures, within the framework agreed with the Bank, for marketing
the availability of LRF funds to SOEs, operating LRF, and monitoring the use of funds disbursed from the
Privatization Agency to SOEs.
33/    See para 4.10 for a more detailed discussion of LRF implementation procedures, including the flow of
funds from IDA through the LRF.
34/    Assistance would include 15 months of international consultants, 16 months of local consultants, 30
months of external training plus approximately US$0.5 million for automation equipment.
35/    See Annex III for a summary of the location, staffing, and automation of services at local employment
offices.



18
through the LRF, if these offices were successful in winning local sub-contracts from
SOEs to deliver in-depth employment and counseling services to displaced workers.
(b)    Automating the local employment bureaus would require: (i) organizing and staffing
an automation department at the National Employment Bureau and reviewing and
updating the existing automation plan to ensure that it will support delivery of current
and future local employment bureau services; (ii) developing a simplified automation
timetable, procedures, and policy manuals for central operation (including plans for
interchange of data with social assistance offices); (iii) preparing the specifications and
procuring goods and services for computer hardware, software upgrades as needed,
site preparation, installation, technical assistance, and maintenance for local
employment bureaus and the national office; (iv) overseeing the functional
requirements, design parameters, implementation timetable, and installation of
hardware and training of local staff by the selected contractor; and (v) evaluating
implementation of automation program modules and equipment once installation in all
local offices is complete.
3.11          Project Coordination Unit (US$ 0.4 million). The project would provide technical
assistance36 to help the Privatization Agency coordinate Project execution from a global perspective to
facilitate the procurement-related work of the technical ministries, and to act as a liaison between the
technical ministries and World Bank. Specific activities would include: (a) coordinating Project
implementation, (b) managing all procurement under the project in cooperation with the technical
ministries, and (c) managing the disbursement of all World Bank loan funds, including monitoring the
implementation progress of specific project components and preparing progress reports. To help
ensure that project objectives, performance targets and schedules are met successfully, a PCU has
been established in the Privatization Agency under the Director of the Transformation and
Restructuring Department. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating all project-related tasks.
During Negotiations, the Borrower would provide assurances that the PCU would be provided with
adequate staffing resources to ensure timely execution of its tasks under the project.
3.12          During Negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that: (a) the Labor
Redeployment Fund would only be used to finance post-layoff labor redeployment services which
meet principles, criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.37; (b) prior to selecting the labor
redeployment technical assistance contractor, the Privatization Agency would select six
individuals to work in the Enterprise Assistance Group as long-term, full-time consultants under
the technical assistance contract; and (c) by the time the Employment Bureau technical
assistance is contracted the National Employment Bureau shall establish and maintain an
Automation Department at the EB and staff it with four full-time professionals, and provide
36/    Assistance would include five months of international consultants and two months of external training.
This sub-component is presented as part of the labor redeployment component because the PCU and labor
redeployment activities are centered in the Privatization Agency, and the majority of PCU activities will support
the labor redeployment program which is the largest part of the Project.
37/    See Annex V for criteria for Labor Redeployment Fund.



19
three additional full-time professional staff to support development of model job vacancy listing,
job search, and labor market information programs.
Public Information Campaign (US$ 1.4 million)
3.13         The Project would finance technical assistance services38 to: establish a Media
Coordination Unit (MCU) at the Privatization Agency, conduct surveys to obtain information on
public opinion to serve as a basis for formulating a Public Information Campaign (PIC), and create
and execute a media campaign aimed at bolstering public support and involvement in support of the
Economic and Social Reforms Program.
(a)    The Media Coordination Unit (MCU) would focus on coordinating and facilitating
execution of the Public Information Program. Establishing the MCU would include:
(i) developing and implementing MCU operating procedures; (ii) developing MCU
infrastructure including locating and equipping office space, and hiring and training
approximately five personnel; (iii) assisting with implementation of a public opinion
survey, and assisting advertising agency consultants to organize and execute PR
campaign; (iv) establishing a Public Information Campaign Advisory Committee to
receive, share and comment on information regarding the Public Information
Campaign; and (v) monitoring and reporting to the PCU and Public Information
Campaign Advisory Committee (every six months) on progress towards achievement
of the objectives , and expenditures, of the Public Information Campaign.
(b)    Conducting public opinion surveys would entail: (i) developing a representative
sample and creating a survey instrument to identify awareness, attitudes and
preferences of different segments of the public towards the Economic and Social
Reform Program, including, but not limited to four fields: the market economy, the
labor market, fiscal policy, and social programs; and (ii) creating and executing a
post-carnpaign survey to measure progress of the canpaign, using instruments and
methodology consistent with the pre-campaign survey, and executing the post-
campaign survey every six months.
(c)    Developing and executing a media campaign would include: (i) creating an umbrella
concept, based on survey results, to define the goal of the advertising campaign,
target audiences and select messages, for each field; (ii) producing all materials, as
proposed and accepted by the MCU; (iii) defining, planning and executing all media
plans, strategy and tactics, as proposed and accepted by the MCU; and (iv) adjusting
the campaign based on the results of the post-campaign survey.
3.14         During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that the Privatization
Agency shall establish, by August 30, 1995, a Media Coordination Unit (MCU) staffed with five
personnel.
38/   See the POM for assumptions, based on media industry standards, for development of the Public
Information Campaign.



20
Social Benefit Proerams (US$ 2.4 million)
3.15           This component is aimed at making social benefit programs more equitable, efficient,
and financially sustainable.9 The Project would finance a total of 48 months of international technical
assistance, 13 months of international fellowships, and 21 months of local consultant services. The
three subcomponents are described below:
3.16          Social Assistance (US$ 1.6 million). This sub-component would provide technical
assistance' and equipment to: (a) develop objective criteria to construct a poverty line based on a
minimum consumption basket; (b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the social assistance system
to deliver benefits efficiently through more effective administration, staffing, monitoring and
enforcement, and budgeting procedures; and (c) expand automation in local social assistance offices
to improve service delivery and cost-effectiveness of services.
(a)    Developing a poverty line would include: (i) using the household budget survey data
to construct upper and lower national, regional and urban/rural poverty lines for the
economy based on a minimum consumption basket that takes into account both food
and non-food consumption; (ii) constructing three basic measures of poverty for the
economy based on the poverty line -- the head count index, the poverty gap index and
the poverty severity index -- and then using the poverty line to gauge the targeting
effectiveness of the social assistance program; and (iii) evaluating the social assistance
program to identify measures to improve efficiency and equity in the system.
(b)    Strengthening institutional capacity would entail: (i) evaluating the administration and
management of social assistance system, including links to the Employment Bureau
offices and other cash benefit programs; (ii) orienting staff to the institutional
arrangements (e.g. staffing, budgeting, information, monitoring and enforcement
procedures) of social assistance systems in three other countries; and (iii) selecting,
equipping, and developing the institutional capacity of one model social assistance
office.
(c)    Automating the social assistance offices would require: (i) organizing and staffing an
automation department at the MOLSP's Social Assistance Department and preparing
an automation plan to support delivery of social assistance services; (ii) developing a
simplified automation timetable, procedures, and policy manuals for central operation,
including plans for interchange of data between social assistance offices and
employment bureau offices; (iii) preparing the specifications and procuring goods and
services for computer hardware, software upgrades as needed, site preparation,
installation, technical assistance, and maintenance for local social assistance offices
and the national office; (iv) overseeing the functional requirements, design
parameters, implementation timetable, and installation of hardware and training of
39/    The recommendations developed under this component would be supported through related
conditionality in the FESAC and subsequent lending operations.
40/    Assistance would include 13 months of international consultants, two months of local consultants, and
nine months of external training.



21
local staff by the selected contractor; and (v) evaluating implementation of automation
program modules and equipment once installation in all local offices is complete.
3.17          Actuarial Analysis of Pensions (US$ 0.5 million). This sub-component would
provide technical assistance4' to assist the Borrower in assessing the financial status of the social
insurance fund over a long-term period as well as the impact of simulated policy changes. This would
involve developing an actuarial model of the pension system which incorporates economic,
demographic, and policy assumptions. Activities implemented include: (a) establishing a coordinating
committee consisting of representatives from MOLSP Pension and Disability Insurance Fund,
Privatization Agency, Ministry of Development, State Statistical Bureau, and Ministry of Finance; (b)
establishing an actuarial unit within the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund; (c) identifying policy
issues by outlining changes in pension policy that the model must accommodate, including changes in
retirement ages, benefit structure, revenue collection, indexation; and conduct policy simulations by
varying economic and demographic assumptions, as well as assumptions about the efficacy of revenue
collection; (d) collecting economic and demographic data required for the model from appropriate
agencies and reporting on data deficiencies which, if resolved, would improve modelling capabilities;
(e) developing an actuarial model based on specifications provided in the policy matrix; and (f)
training staff in actuarial design and programming.
3.18          Payroll Tax Compliance (US$ 0.3 million). This sub-component would provide
technical assistance42 to improve the collection of payroll taxes through more effective business
registration and strengthened audit and enforcement controls. Activities include: (a) establishing a
coordinating committee consisting of representatives from Ministry of Finance, Public Revenue
Office, Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, and Bureau of Payment Operations; (b) developing
statistical analysis techniques and providing estimates of payroll tax revenue losses over a five-year
period; (c) evaluating tax administration procedures and recommending improvements based on
international practice, including improvements in the administration of related taxes, such as profit
taxes, sales taxes or VAT, and personal income taxes; (d) evaluating computer processing capabilities
used in payroll tax administration, and developing a general automation plan for payroll tax
processing, and for related taxes such as profit taxes, sales taxes or VAT, and personal income taxes;
and (e) evaluating pension policy in the light of potential payroll tax shortfalls to determine the need
for changes in entitlement or benefits for particular groups of pensioners.
3.19          During negotiations the Borrower provided assurances that the MOLSP shall, by
the time the technical assistance is contracted: (a) identify and assign three staff members to
work in the Actuarial Unit, and (b) maintain an Automation Unit in the Social Assistance
Department and staff it with two full-time professionals.
41/    Assistance would include 14 months of international consultants and six months of external training.
42/    Assistance would include 13 months of international consultants and five months of external training.



22
Enterprise Restructuring Technical Assistance (US$2.4 million)
3.20            This component would provide technical expertise,'4 supplementing ongoing bilateral
assistance, to help support implementation of the Special Restructuring Program. The component
would provide expertise to help establish a Trustee Unit, reporting to a special inter-ministerial
committee chaired by the Minister of Economy and located at the Ministry of Economy. The
Trustee Unit would represent the interests of creditors and the Borrower during the implementation of
the Special Restructuring Program and would be vested with full ownership rights over the enterprises
to be restructured. The Trustee Unit would assist SOEs to cut losses and reduce costs, accelerate
privatization, exert stringent financial control, and identify post-privatization technical assistance
requirements.
(a)    Activities designed to reduce losses and cut costs would include: (i) monitoring SOE
labor shedding in each SOE4; (ii) developing rolling quarterly cash budgets for every
major activity or product and a detailed review of each revenue and cost item in the
cash budgets; (iii) developing a timetable for the implementation of loss reduction and
cost cutting measures; (iv) monitoring implementation of measures and timetables; and
(v) replacing managers, if necessary, to improve compliance with agreed loss
reduction and cost cutting measures.
(b)    Activities designed to accelerate privatization would include: (i) evaluating
privatization options; (ii) designing a privatization strategy; (iii) developing timetables
for the implementation of a chosen privatization strategy; (iv) initiating corporate
reorganizations; and (v) monitoring implementation of privatization.
(c)    Implementing strict financial controls would entail: (i) helping the TU control cash
disbursements; (ii) approving any applications for bank credit or support payments
from the fiscal budget; (iii) reviewing the use of funds from any asset sales in order to
protect creditors and ensure funds would not be used to cover recurrent losses; and
(iv) initiating liquidation procedures in the cases of enterprises with no prospects for
generating positive operating cash flows.
(d)    Identifying post-privatization technical assistance activities would require: (i) designing
appropriate packages for the delivery of such assistance to each SOE; and (ii)
reporting to the Privatization Agency and to the Inter-ministerial Committee on overall
SRP status.
3.21          During negotiations the Borrower provided assurances that the Ministry of
Economy would, by the time the technical assistance contract supporting the restructuring
program is negotiated, identify and hire a manager and two support staff for the Trustee Unit to
be located in the Ministry of Economy.
43/    Consisting of approximately 76 months of international technical assistance, 96 months of local
consultants, and travel and per diem support for 128 months of international volunteers.
44/    Enterprise labor analysis, pre and post-layoff assistance to displaced workers is being financed under
the Labor Redeployment Component of the Project (para. 3.3).



23
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Costs
4.1                  Summary  of Project Costs.  Total estimated  Project cost is US$  171 million
equivalent, including contingencies, local taxes and duties. Total contingencies (physical and price)
amount to US$ 0.5 million which represents about 3 percent of total base cost (US$ 16.6 million).
The Project cost includes consulting services, fellowships and training, furniture, equipment and
materials, vehicles, the Labor Redeployment Fund, and incremental operating costs generated by the
investments during the implementation period. Base cost estimates were calculated in US dollar
equivalent and reflect costs at the time of pre-appraisal in September 1994. The estimated Project
costs are summnarized in Tables 1 and 2 below, and are shown in detail in the Project Operational
Manual.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
%      % Total
(Local)                              (US$ '000)               ForeIgn    Base
Local        Foreign        Total       Local      Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Labor Redeployment
Enterprise Analysis                               51,771.2      26,020.8      77,792.0     1,294.3      650.5       1,944.8        33       12
Pre-Layoff Services                               15,308.8      11,024.0      26,332.8       382.7      275.6        658.3         42        4
Post-Layoff Services                             205,064.8      34,413.6     239,478.4     5,126.6      860.3       5,987.0        14       36
Employment Bureau                                 23,391.7      40,705.6      64,097.3       584.8     1,017.6      1,602.4        64       10
Project Coordination                              10,553.9       6,468.8      17,022.7       263.8      161.7        425.6         38        3
Subtotal Labor Redeployment                        306,090.4     118,632.8     424,723.2     7,652.3     2,965.8     10,6181         28        64
B. Marketing Economic Refonn
Public Information Campaign                       13,301.1      41,580.8      54,881.9       332.5     1,039.5      1,372.0        76        8
Subtotal Marketing Economic Reform                  13,301.1      41,580.8      54,881.9       332.5     1,039.5      1,372.0        76         8
C. Social Benefit Progroms
Social Assistance                                 16,138.7      44,647.2      60,785.9       403.5     1,116.2      1,519.6        73        9
Actuarial Planning of Pensions                     5,686.7      13,915.2      19,601.9       142.2      347.9        490.0         71         3
Social Benefit Contribution                              -      11,232.0      11,232.0           -      280.8        280.8        100        2
Subtotal Social Benefit Programs                    21,825.4      69,794.4      91,619.8       545.6     1,744.9      2,290.5        76        14
D. Specili Restructuring Program
Special Restructurng Program                      32,025.8      60,268.0      92,293.8       800.6     1,506.7      2,307.3        65        14
Subtotal Special Restructuring Program              32,025.8      60,268.0      92,293.8       800.6     1,506.7      2,307.3        65        14
Total BASELINE COSTS                                373,242.7     290,276.0    663,518.7      9,331.1     7,256.9     16,588.0        44      100
Physical Contingencies                             1,642.7       3,546.9       5,189.6        41.1        88.7       129.7         68         1
Price Contingencies                                6,851.4      10,152.9      17,004.3       171.3      253.8        425.1         60        3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 381,736.8     303,975.8     685,712.7     9,543.4     7,599.4     17,142.8        44      103
Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
%      % Total
(Local)                              (USS'000)                Foreign    Base
Locai        Foreign        Total        Local     Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Labor Redeployment Fund                 200,000.0             -    200,000.0      5,000.0           -      5,000.0          -       30
B. Foreign Technical Assistance                    -     187,888.0     187,888.0           -    4,697.2       4,697.2       100        28
C. Local Technical Assistance              100,053.8             -     100,053.8     2,501.3           -      2,501.3          -       15
D. Foreign Training                                -      31,449.6      31,449.6           -       786.2        786.2       100         5
F. Equipment & Fumiture                      3,036.8      57,699.2      60,736.0        75.9     1,442.5      1,518.4        95         9
G. Software & Materials                        405.6       7,706.4        8,112.0       10.1       192.7        202.8        95         1
H. Vehides                                     291.2        5,532.8       5,824.0        7.3       138.3        145.6        95         1
Total Investment Costs                        303,787.4     290,276.0     594,063.4     7,594.7    7,256.9     14,851.6        49        90
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                                30,351.4              -      30,351.4      758.8           -        758.8          -        5
B. Materials                                22,048.0             -      22,048.0       551.2           -        551.2          -        3
C. Maintenance                              17,056.0              -      17,056.0      426.4                    426.4          -        3
Total Recurrent Costa                          69,455.4             -      69,455.4     1,736.4           -     1,736.4          -       10
Total BASELINE COSTS                          373,242.7     290,276.0     663,518.7     9,331.1     7,256.9     16,588.0        44       100
Physical Contngencies                         1,642.7      3,546.9        5,189.6       41.1        88.7        129.7        68         1
Price Contingencies                          6,851.4      10,152.9       17,004.3      171.3       253.8        425.1        60         3
Total PROJECT COSTS                           381,736.8     303,975.8     685,712.7     9,543.4     7,599.4     17,142.8        44       103



24
4.2           Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs were estimated on the following basis:
(a)    Base Costs. All project costs were estimated in US Dollars given that inflation of the
Denar is difficult to predict. Costs shown in Denar are the result of converting dollar
estimates at the rate of 40 Denar/US$ 1.00 (December 1994). The average cost of
foreign specialist consulting services (US$ 18,000 per month) is based on recent
contracts for comparable services in other Bank-financed projects in the central and
eastern European region. This unit cost includes fees, relocation/recruitment costs,
housing and subsistence, and overheads. The average cost of local consultants has
been estimated at US$ 3,000 per month. Overseas fellowships and study visits are
estimated to cost US$ 8,000 per staff month on the average. Price estimates for
office equipment, including computers, and furniture are based on current market
prices in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a five percent contingency allowance
for unforeseen physical variations on all equipment and furniture. The total physical
contingency of US$ 0.1 million is equal to less than one percent of the estimated base
cost. The low physical contingencies reflect the absence of civil works in the project
and the limited funds allocated to goods and equipment procurement. In the absence
of forecasts for annual local price escalation and exchange rates, price increases have
been applied to both local and foreign costs in US dollar terms at the rate of 2 percent
per annum. Estimated price contingencies total US$ 0.4 million.
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was estimated as
follows: (i) Labor Redeployment Fund (0 percent), (ii) office furniture and equipment,
materials and software (95 percent), (iii) expatriate consulting services, fellowships
and studies (100 percent), (iv) local consultants, local training, local staff salaries (0
percent), and (v) maintenance (0 percent). The resulting foreign exchange
component, including contingencies, is estimated at US$ 7.6 million, or about 45
percent of total project cost.
(d)    Taxes. The Project has been costed net of import taxes and duties, contingent upon
the Borrower issuing an exemption on the payment of duties and taxes on goods
(equipment and materials) and services imported directly in connection with foreign-
financed projects. If this exemption is not forthcoming, funds would have to be added
to the Borrower's counterpart contribution to cover the costs of these expenses.
Project costs include less than US$ 0.1 million equivalent in taxes on locally procured
works, goods and services.
4.3           Recurrent Costs. Recurrent costs, estimated at US$ 1.7 million and included the total
project cost estimates, are the incremental operating costs generated by project investments. These
recurrent costs arise from: (i) salaries for PCU and the coordinating committees for the labor fund,
the media campaign and pension reform, (ii) maintenance of new equipment and vehicles, and
(iii) office materials and supplies for the PCU and the committees. These costs are included in total
project costs only to ensure that these amounts are budgeted as Borrower counterpart funds on an
annual basis.



25
B. Project Financing
4.4                  The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 14.0 million equivalent would finance 82 percent of
the total project cost, or 100 percent of the foreign exchange component, and 67 percent of local costs
net of taxes. The Borrower would finance the remaining 33 percent of local costs and all taxes and
duties, for a total of US$ 3.1 million equivalent. Retroactive financing of ten percent (10%) of the
credit, amounting to one million four hundred thousand US dollars equivalent (US$1,400,000), would
be made available effective January 1, 1995. Retroactive financing would be used exclusively to
support provision of post-layoff services to displaced workers through the Labor Redeployment Fund
(LRF). (see Table 4 1. A) The project financing plan is shown in Tables 3 and 4 below.
Table 3: COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT & SOURCE OF FINANCING
(US$ thousands)
International
Development                                           Local
The Govermment          Association               Total                       (Excl.    Duties &
Amount       %       Amount         %       Amount        %       For. Exch.    Taxes)     Taxes
A. Labor Redeployment
Enteprise Analysis                           50.5      2.5       1,979.1     97.5      2,029.6     11.8        681.2     1,343.3        5.1
Pre-Layoff Services                          50.0      7.2        641.2      92.8        691.1      4.0        290.7       395.9        4.5
Post-Layoff Services 1/                   1,299.7     21.5      4,733.0      78.5      6,032.7     35.2        898.6     5,129.8        4.3
Employment Bureau                           523.5      30.6      1,190.0     69.4      1,713.6      10.0      1092.8       615.1        5.7
Project Coordination                        276.7     61.8        170.8      38.2        447.5      2.6        170.8       273.9        2.8
Subtotal Labor Redeployment                 2,200.4      20.2      8.714.0     79.8    10,914.5      63.7       3,134.0     7,758.0      22.4
B. Marketing Economic Reform
Public Information Campaign                 253.4     18.3       1,133.2     81.7      1,386.6      8.1       1,043.2      341.1        2.3
C. Social Benefit Programs
Social Assistance                           357.7     22.0       1,270.1     78.0      1,627.8      9.5       1,195.5      426.3        6.0
Actuarial Planning of Pensions              149.0     29.1        363.3      70.9        512.4       3.0       363.3       147.3        1.7
Social Benefit Contribution                     -        -        292.0    100.0         292.0      1.7        292.0           -          -
Subtotal Social Benefit Programs              506.7      20.8      1,925.4     79.2      2,432.1      14.2      1,850.9      573.6        7.7
D. Special Restructuring Program
Special Restructuring Program               170.3      7.1      2,239.3      92.9      2,409.6     14.1       1,571.3      833.5        4.8
Total DIsbursement                           3,130.9     18.3    14,011.9       81.7     17,142.8    100.0      7,599.4    9,506.2        37.2
I/ Includes Labor Redeployment Fund, see Table 4, I. A below for details
Table 4: COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY & FINANCIER
(US$ thousands)
IntematIonal
Development                                           Local
The Govemment           Association               Total                       (Excl.    Duties &
Amount       %       Amount         %       Amount        %      For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes
I. Investment Costa
A Labor Redeployment Fund                  1,250.0      25.0      3,750.0     75.0      5,000 0     29.2             -    5,000.0
B. Foreign Technical Assistance                  -         -      4,845.1    100.0      4,845.1     28.3       4,845.1          -
C. Local Technical Assistance                    -         -      2,597.8    100.0      2,597.8      15.2            -    2,597.8
D. Foreign Training                              -         -       817.7    100.0         817.7      4.8        817.7           -
F. Equipment & Fumiture                       18.2       1.1      1,639.9     98.9      1,658.1       9.7      1,575.2       64.7       18.2
G. Software & Materials                       11.1       5.0       210.4      95.0        221.5       1.3       210.4           -       11.1
H. Vehicles                                    7.9      5.0        151.0      950         159.0      0.9        151.0           -        7.9
Total Investment Costs                        1,287.2      8.4    14,011.9      91.6    15,299.1       89.2      7,599.4     7,662.5      37.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                                 789.1    100.0             -        -        789.1       4.6            -      789.1
B. Materials                                 601.9    100.0            -         -        601.9       3.5           -       601.9
C. Maintenance                               452.6    100.0            -         -        452.6       2.6           -       452.6
Total Recurrent Costa                         1,843.7    100.0            -        -      1,843.7      10.8           -      1,843.7         -
Total Disbursement                            3,130.9     18 3     14,011 9      81 7     17,142.8    100 0      7,599.4     9,506.2       37.2



26
C. Proiect Implementation and Mana2ement
Implementation Arranements
4.5          In keeping with the Project's short- and medium-term capacity-building objectives,
Government line ministries and departments will be responsible for implementing Project components,
assisted by qualified specialists as necessary. The following paragraphs outline which agency has
responsibility for each Project component and subcomponent.45
Chart 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Component & Sub-Component         Responsible Agency          Technical Assistance
Terms of Reference #
A.    Labor Redeployment
1.    Enterprise Analyses   Privatization Agency              TOR# 1
2.    Pre-layoff Asst.     Privatization Agency               TOR # 1
3.    Post-layoff Asst.     Privatization Agency              TOR # 1
4.     Employment Bureau   Employment Bureau                  TOR # 2
5.     PCU                 Privatization Agency               TOR # 3
B.    Public Information Campaign
1.    Media Coord. Unit.  Privatization Agency                TOR # 4
2.     Surveys             Privatization Agency               TOR # 4
3.    Media Campaign       Privatization Agency               TOR # 5
C.    Social Benefit Programs
1.    Social Assistance    MOLSP/Statistical Agency           TOR # 6
2.     Actuarial Analysis    MOLSP                            TOR # 6
3.    Payroll Tax          Ministry of Finance                TOR # 6
D.    Restructuring Program TA
1.    Restructuring Program Privatization Agency              TOR # 7
4.6          Labor Redeployment. The Privatization Agency, under the general guidance of the
Managing Board of the Privatization Agency, will be responsible for implementation of the first three
labor redeployment sub-components: enterprise analysis, pre-layoff services, and post-layoff services.
An Enterprise Assistance Group (EAG), consisting of six long-term consultant staff financed by the
Credit, will be established to administer these sub-components.
4.7          There would be one umbrella technical assistance contract which would provide
services to the Privatization Agency and SOEs involved in the three major components of the labor
redeployment program (bids have been requested for this assistance and work will be initiated under
45/    More detailed information is found in Section I of the Project Operational Manual - POM.



27
the PPF). This contractor would provide six long-term local consultants to staff the EAG, several
long-term international consultants to develop procedures and materials for operating the labor
redeployment program, and additional short-term consultants, on demand, depending on individual
SOE requirements.
4.8           LRF would be established as a budget line item at the Privatization Agency. Funds
would be disbursed to qualifying SOEs which would organize delivery of post-layoff labor
redeployment services for displaced workers through sub-contracts with local service providers, in
keeping with the principles and criteria agreed with IDA (see para. 3.6). The flow and control of
funds would be as follows, and similar to that used in other projects (e.g., Turkey):
(a)    Privatization Agency would establish the LRF with State budget funds (approximately
US$ 300,000 or 25 percent of expenditures for one year);
(b)    Eligible SOEs would sign agreements with the Privatization Agency regarding use of
LRF funds in keeping with criteria agreed with IDA;
(c)    SOEs would open local commercial bank accounts to receive LRF funds, as specified
in the Privatization Agency/SOE agreement;
(d)    SOEs would establish sub-contracts with local service providers for labor
redeployment services consistent with the Privatization Agency/SOE agreement;
(e)    Privatization Agency would forward an initial deposit to the SOE local commercial
account (approximately 25 percent of expenditures for one year of services for
displaced workers);
(f)    SOE sub-contractors would deliver services and invoice the SOE each month based on
the average unit costs of delivering services times the number of workers provided
with services;
(g)    SOEs would forward invoices and program reports to the Privatization Agency/EAG
on a monthly basis as agreed;
(h)    Privatization Agency would review invoices and reimburse the SOE commercial bank
account for services provided as noted in (i) following;
(i)    Privatization Agency would obtain reimbursement for 75 percent of the costs of local
expenditures for labor redeployment services through the Special Account established
under the Credit and 25 percent from local funds; and
(j)    Each year the Privatization Agency would replenish the LRF with approximately US$
300,000 in local funds in recognition of the fact that the IDA credit would only
reimburse 75 percent of costs after services are provided at the local level to displaced
workers.



28
4.9          Employment Bureau. The Employment Bureau (EB) will be the implementation
agency for development of this sub-component of the labor redeployment program which includes
development of the model local employment bureau and the automation of all local bureaus.
4.10         Public Information Campaign (PIC). The Privatization Agency will be responsible
for organization, execution and implementation of the PIC. The first step in implementation of this
component will be the establishment of the Media Coordination Unit (MCU) at the Privatization
Agency.
4.11         Social Assistance. This sub-component of the social benefit component would be
implemented by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy in cooperation with the Statistical Agency.
4.12         Actuarial Analysis. This sub-component of the social benefit component would be
implemented by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. A coordinating committee will be
established consisting of representatives from concerned agencies.
4.13         Payroll Tax Compliance. This sub-component of the social benefit component would
be implemented by the Ministry of Finance. A coordinating committee will be established consisting
of representatives from concerned agencies.
4.14         Restructuring Program Technical Assistance. The Special Restructuring Program
will be directed by a special inter-ministerial committee chaired by the Minister of Economy, and
administered by a Trustee Unit which would be vested with ownership rights over the SOEs. The
Trustee Unit would be located at the Privatization Agency.
Project Management Arrangements
4.15         Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU). To help ensure that Project objectives,
performance targets and schedules are met successfully, a Project Coordination Unit has been
established in the Privatization Agency under the direction of the Director of the Transformation and
Restructuring Department. The PCU would be responsible for coordinating all Project-related tasks.
The PCU is located in the Privatization Agency because the major focus of the Credit is on
supporting SOE restructuring. During negotiations the borrower provided assurances that the
Privatization Agency shall ensure that a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is maintained
comprising a Coordinator, Procurement Assistant, and a Secretary. The day-to-day
implementation of individual project components would be the responsibility of the technical
ministries. The PCU's role would be one of support and facilitation. A Technical Coordination
Committee, consisting of the technical directors or their representatives and the Project Coordinator,
will be formed. It would meet on a regular basis to discuss and resolve issues which effect project
execution.
4.16         Proiect Commitment and Sustainability. The project was prepared largely by
Government Agencies -- the Privatization Agency, MOF, and MOLSP. During preparation, these
agencies developed individual components through dialogue with project beneficiaries and
stakeholders, including representatives from labor and employers. The Special Restructuring Program
will be implemented under the general guidance of a special inter-ministerial committee chaired by the
Ministry of Economy and will be administered by a Trustee Unit for restructuring enterprises located



29
at the Ministry of Economy. Working groups are being established to provide guidance for
implementation of each component of the project, including an enterprise assistance group for the
labor redeployment component, a public information program advisory committee, multi-agency
coordinating committees for the social benefit component, and a project technical coordination
committee. Borrower budget commitments of 25 percent are to be made to the LRF, which will
demonstrate Borrower commitment to this key activity. Finally, the Borrower will commit itself to the
creation and staffing of small but critical units to support the employment bureau, media development,
and social benefit components.
4.17          The principal objective of the project is sustainability of the Borrower's economic
reform program -- in particular, the restructuring of large, loss-making enterprises. The project-
supported instruments for achieving that objective are, by nature, temporary activities, and will be
phased out when the restructuring of the largest SOEs is substantially completed. The project actions
to improve the design of social benefit programs will end when those developmental actions are
completed; they will then be succeeded by implementation of the improved social benefit programs,
which may require additional investments.
4.18          Monitorin2 and Reporting. The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring.
The Project Operational Manual includes a framework for systematic monitoring and evaluation of
progress in Project implementation. It identifies a set of performance indicators to be used in Project
supervision. On a semi-annual basis, the PCU would submit to IDA a consolidated report on the
Project on the status of Project implementation, covering each component, its objectives and
activities, and including: (i) current status and issues; (ii) deviations, if any, from the implementation
plan and Project targets; (iii) recommendations for actions and forward planning; and (iv) actual and
planned expenditures. During Negotiations it was agreed that the Borrower will carry out, with IDA,
a mid-term review of the project implementation in the second half of 1996. It was further agreed
that this review would include an analysis of overall project expenditures with a view toward
reallocation between categories if mutually agreed between the Borrower and the IDA.
4.19          Proiect Completion and Evaluation. Project completion is expected by
March 31, 1999. The closing date will be September 30, 1999, or such later date as IDA shall
establish. The PCU would be responsible for preparing the Borrower's contribution to the Project
Implementation Completion Report.
4.20          IDA Supervision. Because this is the first project in the social sectors in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it is expected that the project would require intensive supervision
estimated at a average of 16-20 staff weeks per year, and possibly more in the first year of
implementation. Project monitoring reports and indicators, the POM, and a careful review of project
expenditures and availability of project resources would forn the basis for the supervision missions
which would visit the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia at least twice a year. Staffing for
supervision missions would need to include, in addition to the task manager and project
implementation specialist, periodic visits by specialists in media, pensions and social benefit
programs, and enterprise restructuring.



30
D. Proiect Procurement Arraneements
4.21         Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6. Sample bidding
documents are included in the POM and would be utilized for the procurement of IDA-financed
works, goods, and related services. Expenditures financed entirely with Borrower funds are shown
under the N.B.F. (Non-Bank Financed) column. A Procurement Plan (bid packaging, estimated
costs, timing) is provided in Annex VI.
4.22          The PCU would have overall responsibility for procurement activities under the
Project. Specific procurement responsibilities are listed in the POM.
4.23          Procurement procedures under the Project would be as follows:
(a)    Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under the Project would consist of office
equipment and supplies (including computers and related equipment, software,
photocopy machines, facsimile machines), vehicles, training materials and furniture.
To the extent feasible, invitations for bids on equipment would be grouped into sizable
bid packages in order to promote competition and benefit from economies of scale in
bid prices. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 50,000 (up to
an aggregate of US$ 1.4 million) or more would be subject to prior review and would
be procured following liniited international bidding (LIB) procedures in accordance
with Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995).
Only three contracts are expected to fall into this category: two for computer
equipment for the Employment Bureaus and the Social Benefit Offices (about US$
600,000 each), and one for vehicles procurement for various implementing agencies
(about US$ 150,000). These three contracts, procured through LIB, would constitute
about 64 percent of the total cost of IDA-financed goods (exclusive of the Labor
Redeployment Fund). The remaining 36 percent of IDA-financed goods would be
grouped into minor packages as follows: (a) contracts for goods (aggregate IDA
US$ 500,000) estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or less per contract, including
off-the-shelf items such as office and training supplies, software and office equipment,
may be purchased through national shopping (NS) on the basis of a minimum of
three price quotations obtained from qualified suppliers; and (b) contracts for goods
which IDA agrees are of a proprietary nature, e.g., computer software and materials,
etc. (US$ 50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate IDA financing), may be acquired
through direct procurement from proprietors and/or copyright holders, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA.
(b)    Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund. Procurement under the Labor
Redeployment Fund (aggregate US$ 3,750 million under the IDA Credit) would be
exclusively for services. Individual contracts for services such as employment
counseling, retraining and small business assistance are not estimated to exceed US$
50,000. Service contracts for small business incubators are not expected to exceed
US$ 350,000, and would be subjected to a competitive selection process.
Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund would be carried out by the
Privatization Agency and would generally be carried out on a sole source basis
(except for the incubators as noted above). Detailed procedures for disbursement and
control of funds are provided in paragraph 4.10 and in Section 1: 1. C. of the POM.



31
(c)    Procurement of Consulting Services. Consultants for specialized and professional
services financed under the Project would be selected in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Specialized services include seven
consulting packages (aggregate IDA US$8.3 million - see Chart 3.1) which could be
provided by qualified consulting firms or institutions. To the extent feasible, external
fellowships and training programs (aggregate US$0.8 million IDA financing) shall be
included as part of the technical assistance packages procured from consulting firms
and training institutions. Local training would be carried out as part of the terms of
reference of the contracted specialists. The list of consulting services and training
needs supported by the Project is shown in Annex VII.
(d)    Incremental Operating Costs. Equipment maintenance services, office supplies and
materials and staff salaries would be financed entirely by the Borrower and would be
procured in accordance with current Borrower procedures.



32
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditure                               LIB          Other         N.B.F b/  Total
1. Technical assistance
Policy Development                                           1.3                         1.3
(I.3)c/                     (1.3)
Project Implementation                                      0.1                         0.1
(0. I)c/                    (0. 1)
Capacity Building                                           5.1                         5.1
(5. 1)c/                    (5.1)
2.  External Training                                               0.8                         0.8
(0.8)c/                     (0.8)
3. Equipment, vehicles, furniture
materials                                       1.4 d/       0.6 e/                      2.0
(1.4)        (0.5)                       (1.9)
4.   Labor Redeployment Fund (LRF)                                  5.0                         5.0
(3.8)                       (3.8)
5.   Project Preparation Facility                                    L.O0f                       1.0
(1.0)                       (1.0)
6.  Incremental recurrent costs                                                   1.8            1.8
(0.0)
Total                                     1.4          13.9         1.8           17.1
(1.4)       (12.6)         (0.0)       (14.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
A/ Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding.
b/ N.B.F. - Non-Bank Financed expenditure.
c/ Services of consultantslinstitutions (advisors, experts, fellowships/training) to be engaged in accordance with
IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
d/ Limited Intemational Bidding (aggregate US$1,400,000) packages estimated over US$50,000 per contract;
e/ National shopping (aggregate US$500,000) packages estimated at less than US$50,000 per contract; and
direct contracting (aggregate US$50,000) proprietary items such as joumals and computer software.
f/ The PPF finances 100 percent technical assistance and procurement has been engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines.



33
4.24          Contract Review. The procurement documentation to be submitted for prior review
by IDA includes invitations to quote, technical specifications, and draft contracts. It is estimated that
prior review would cover about 95 percent of the value of all contracts for goods and consulting
services (exclusive of the Labor Redeployment Fund). The remaining contracts would be subject to
selective post-award reviews by IDA. Prior review by IDA would be required for all LIB and DC
contracts. Prior review, and documentation required, for technical assistance contracts would be as
follows:
(a)    Technical Assistance: (i) contracts with consultant firms valued at US$ 50,000
equivalent or more--all procurement documentation (budgets, TORs, selection
procedures, short lists, letters of invitation, evaluation report, draft contracts); (ii)
single-source individual consultant contracts and assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by IDA-- all procurement documentation (see above); (iii)
individual consultant contracts less than US$ 50,000 equivalent--TORs; and
(d) amendments to the employment of consultants raising the contract value to US$
50,000 equivalent or above--TORs; and
(b)    Fellowships and Training: TORs for external fellowships and study visits.6
4.25          Procurement Infornation to be Provided by the Borrower. The PCU would
promptly inform IDA of contract awards and procurement issues, and would include the following
procurement information in periodic progress reports:
(a)    revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(b)    revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award
and completion time for individual contract; and
(c)    status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
E. Disbursements
4.26          The project is the first IDA operation in the human resources sector in FYR
Macedonia, and therefore, the country disbursement profile is speculative. The project has been
designed to be carried out over a four-year period, and credit funds are expected to be fully
disbursed within sixteen (16) quarters after Board Approval (or by September 30, 1999).
Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a)    Goods (equipment, furniture, materials and proprietary items): 100 percent of foreign
expenditure; 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured items; and 85
percent of the cost of locally procured items; and
46/   In general fellowships/training and related consulting services would be integrated in one Terms of
Reference to simplify implementation, facilitate coordination, and strengthen technical assistance services.



34
(b)    Technical assistance, studies, fellowships, and external training: 100 percent.
(c)    Labor Redeployment Fund; costs of post-layoff services provided to displaced
workers: 75 percent.
4.27         Civil service staff salaries, operation and maintenance costs of equipment and other
non-salary operating costs would be financed by the Borrower.
4.28         All withdrawal applications will be fully documented except that contracts for goods
not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent and contracts for technical assistance, studies, fellowships and
training not exceeding US$50,000 will be supported by Statements of Expenditure (SOE) certified by
the PCU Project Coordinator. The required supporting documentation would be retained by the PCU
for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and
by visiting IDA staff upon request. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations
of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PCU
in coordination and consultation with the MOF.
4.29         Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for
the PCU, denominated in US Dollars, in a bank acceptable to IDA. Payments of eligible expenditure
(goods, furniture, specialist services, training) may be made by the PCU out of the Special Account.
The Special Account may be established with a total authorized allocation of US$ 1,000,000. The
initial deposit into the Special Account will be US$ 500,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit account shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$ 1.0 million.
The Special Account would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or when the undisbursed
balance falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit whichever occurs first.
In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the
Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests. All other applications for direct payments or
issuance of Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20 percent of the Special
Account allocation.
4.30         Proiect Account and Audits. Separate project accounts would be maintained by the
PCU. The Project accounts, including the PCU accounts and the Special Account, would be audited
in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank (March 1982). Within six months of the end of Borrower's fiscal year, IDA would be
provided with an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, on disbursements against certified
SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications.
F. Status of Preparation
4.31         The Project was appraised in December 1994 on the basis of a detailed Project
Operational Manual (POM) which includes implementation schedules, sample bidding documents and
all Terms of Reference for technical assistance. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF 896) in the
amount of $ 1.0 million was approved by the RVP in December and has been signed by the



35
Borrower. Procurement is currently underway for four of the seven technical assistance packages
under the project, representing nearly US$ 7.0 million in financing. The initial payments for these
technical assistance contracts will be made under the PPF in March/April, 1995. Bidding should
begin shortly for the remaining three Technical Assistance contracts, which should be ready to be
signed shortly after credit effectiveness scheduled for June/July, 1995.
l



36
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1           The major benefit expected from the proposed project would be to maintain public
acceptance of the country's economic reform program, thus helping ensure the sustainability of the
reform program. In addition, labor redeployment activities supported by the project would help
reduce public budgetary outlays and increase national output by moving workers from jobs where
they are not productive, and receive public subsidies, to jobs where they are more productive. The
employment effect of some labor redeployment programs (i.e. training) may be reduced to some
extent if workers who benefit from the programs displace other workers. However, even in these
cases, the programs should contribute to increased productivity. The project would also help restore
long-run fiscal balance by improving tax collections and by establishing a more equitable, efficient,
and affordable basis for pensions and social assistance.
B. Risks
5.2           The principal risk associated with the proposed project is that a failure to impose a
hard budget constraint could permit further delays in real restructuring of the largest loss-making
enterprises, including needed labor shedding, thereby undermining the basis for the project. The
proposed FESAC and follow-up policy oversight expected under subsequent operations would reduce
this risk to an acceptable level. Moreover, because the project is viewed by Government authorities as
a pre-requisite to effective enterprise reform, the project itself would help to mitigate this risk.
However, in the event that there are substantial delays or changes in the FESAC that affect the special
restructuring program, the configuration of the project may need to be reconsidered. Finally, the
implementation capacity of some of the agencies involved is weak. The project addresses this issue by
providing technical assistance and requiring the agencies to add small numbers of staff to support
project implementation.



37
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached at Negotiations:
6.1          During Negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that:
(a)    The Labor Redeployment Fund would only be used to finance post-layoff labor redeployment
services which meet principles and criteria agreed with the IDA (para. 3.12);
(b)    Agencies involved in Project implementation would take the following actions to increase
staffing to ensure timely execution of Project activities:
(i)    Prior to selection of the labor redeployment technical assistance contractor, the
Privatization Agency would select six individuals to work in the EAG as long-term,
full-time, consultant staff under the technical assistance contract (para. 3.12);
(ii)   By the time the Employment Bureau technical assistance is contracted the National
Employment Bureau would establish and maintain an Automation Department at the
Employment Bureau and staff it with four full time professionals and provide three
additional full-time professional staff to support development of model job vacancy
listing, job search, and labor market information programs (para. 3.12);
(iii)   The Privatization Agency shall establish, by August 30, 1995, a Media Coordination
Unit (MCU) staffed with five personnel (para. 3.14);
(iv)   The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection shall, by the time the technical
assistance is contracted: (i) identify and assign three staff members to work in the
Actuarial Unit, and (ii) maintain an Automation Unit in the Social Assistance
Department and staff it with two full-time professionals (para. 3.19);
(v)    The Ministry of Economy would, by the time the technical assistance contract
supporting the restructuring program is negotiated, identify and hire a manager and
two support staff for the Trustee Unit to be located in the Ministry of Economy
(para. 3.21); and
(vi)   The Privatization Agency shall ensure that a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is
maintained comprising a Coordinator, Procurement Assistant, and Secretary (para.
4.15).
Recommendation
6.2          Subject to the above, the proposed operation would provide a suitable basis for an
IDA credit of SDR 9.0 million (US$ 14.0 million equivalent) to the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia on standard IDA terms, with 35 years' maturity.






ANNEXES



Fonner Yugoslav Republc of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Persons Seeia Emllovment
By Age, Years Employed and Time Waiting for Employment
1989        1990        1991        1992      1992 (%)
TOTAL (By Age)                                      153528      159307      166873      173350    100.00
Less than 18 years old                       11856        9932        7371        5560       3.21
18 - 25                                      70407       71123       71032       70253       40.53
25 - 40                                      55211       60937       68374       75525       43.57
40 - 50                                      10509        11369       13003       14306       8.25
More than 50 years old                        5545        5946        7093        7706        4.45
TOTAL (By Number of Years Employed)                 153528      159307      166873      173350     100.00
No Service                                  128432      129783      132667       136065      78.49
Less than a year                              6294        8007        7780        7949        4.59
1 - 2                                          3491        3641        4382        4353        2.51
1 - 3                                          2530        2724        3132        3141        1.81
3 - 5                                          3367        3918        4528        4794        2.77
5 - 10                                         5257        5882        6880        7571        4.37
10 - 20                                        3210        4054        5495        6255        3.61
20 - 30                                         842        1135        1780        2072        1.20
More than 30 years                              105         163         229         252        0.15
TOTAL (By Time Spent Waiting for Employment)        153528      159307      166873      173350     100.00
Less than 6 months                            22905       23469       11881       13167        7.60
6 - 9                                          8323        4421        6802        5140        2.97
9 - 12                                         8037        5876        7032        7465        4.31
1 - 3 years                                   51332       40883       56934       49356      28.47
3 - 5  1/                                     28479       25168       36631       40991       23.65
5 - 8                                         20695       18184       28634       33385       19.26              X
More than 8 years                             13757       41306       18959       23846       13.76
0
I/ For period 1981 - 1984. dama refer to time spent waiting for employmecnt for mer 3 years



Annex 11
Page I of 2
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
EmDlovees in the Former Yu-oslav
ReDublic of Macedonia by Activities and Areas
1989       1990       1991        1992
Total                                                  516534     507324      468372     446117
Mining and industry                                    213525     206191      188873     176568
Agriculture and fisheries                               43525      38153      35389       34128
Forestry                                                 4264       4031        3916       3692
Water management                                         2808       2488        2747       2795
Construction                                            46523      47636      42492       39680
Transport and communications                            25848      26248       24188      22497
Trade                                                   50708      51884      47175       45209
Tourism and catering trade and services                 10229      11708       10396      10026
Personal services, crafts and trades                     5070       6979        5777       5997
Housing, utilities and public services                   9354       7988        7925       7896
Financial, technical and business servies               15505      14422       13190      12938
Non-economic activities in Education                    89474      89839      86448       84712
Health care and social welfare                          33367      33854       33828      34352
Socio -political institutions and organizations         19827      19129       16606      15258



Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Asistae Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Persons Seeknl Emniovment by Professional OualflScatons
100000
70000
50000
7 40000
~;, 20000
1989                                               X0000
1991                                                  0
199                    c~*     a,       >
0           0    ) 
a,    C~.C X       W   0 
>     ,,       a,   C         a)
1Ci)                                               x- :
o t:l



Annex III
Page 1 of I
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
National Labor Bureau Activity - July 1994
Number of   Currently
Labor Offices   Staff    eCglitered  Clients per  AutomatYd  Office Size I/
Clients  Staff     AtmtdOfc  ie1
Berovo               8         2556      319.5                          2
Bitola              28        10530        376       X                  1
Brod                 4         1268        317                          3
Valandovo            4         1361        340                          3
Vinica               5         2146        429                          3
Gergelija            4         4091      102.3                          2
Gostivar            13         7426        571                          1
Debar                6         3937        656                          3
Delcevo              8         2358        295                          2
Demir Hisar          5         1314        263                          3
Kavadarci           10         5750        575       X                  1
Kicevo               9         5735        637       X                  1
Kocani              10         5429        643                          1
Kratovo              5         1307        261                          3
Kaiva Palanka        8         3921        490                          2
Krusevo              6         1944        324                          3
Kunianovo           21        16837        802                          1
Negotino             8         4353        544                          2
Ohrid               11         5409        492       X                  1
Prilep              28        15320        547                          1
Probistip            6         2745      457.5                          3
Radovis              6         5142        857       X                  2
Resen                7         1335        191                          3
Sveti Nikole         8        2318         290       X                  2
Skopje              73       46962         643       X                  1
Struga               7        4182         598                          2
Strumika            13        9355         720       X                  1
Tetovo              17         5620      330.5                          1
Titov Veles         17         8661        509                          1
Stip                15        4156         278       X                  1
TOTAL              370       193468        523             9         N/A
/  l=Large; 2=Medium; 3=Small



Annex IV
Page 1 of 3
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform And Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
The Social Assistance System
1. Eligibility and Benefits
The social assistance program delivers benefits to individuals falling below established social
minima. The programs covers the employed, the unemployed and pensioners. Individuals must register
with the unemployment offices to be eligible for benefits. The social minima are established separately
by employment category and are based on an 'average consumption' basket. The amount of benefits
received by a household are equal to the difference between the individual's income and the social minima
established for the employment status of the individual. So for example, the per capita social minimum
is set at 25% average wage for the employed, 20% of average wage for pensioners and 15% of average
wage for the unemployed.'
2. Equity and Efficiency
In principle, in order to maintain work incentives, minimum wages should exceed minimum
unemployment benefits and these in turn should be greater than the 'poverty line'. In Macedonia minimum
wages (44% of average wage) are greater than unemployment benefits (36% of average wage). But the
social assistance minimum varies by household size and employment category. For a four member
household headed by an employed individual the social assistance minimum is 100% of average wage.
The higher social assistance minimum for the employed was actually instituted to maintain work
incentives in the sytem. Indeed, transfers to the employed exceed transfers to any other household
category, giving individuals an incentive to work. But there are two critical problems with the current
incentive system. Once employed individuals receive social assistance they have no incentive to leave the
system. There is a 1 unit tax on benefits per unit increase in the wage or other income components.2
Second, the current work incentives create inequities within the existing system. It is not at all clear that
pensioners have a higher subsistence requirement than the unemployed; nor is it obvious that the
unemployed have a lower consumption requirement than employed workers. The exclusion of the self
employed from the program altogether also raises grave concerns; particularly as this segment of the
population is increasing rapidly in the economy.
1/ More formally, the system can be summarized as:
Ts=   . 15wn-Y     0 <Yc.15wn
Tu=   .15wn-Y   .36w<Y< .l5wn
Tp'=  .20wn-Y   .44w<Y<.20wn
Te=  .25wn-Y   .44w<Y<.25wn
for l<n<5, where Ts=Transfers to the Social Assistance recipients, Tu=Transfers to the Unemployed,
Tp=Transfers to Pensioners and Te=Transfers t o the employed, w=average wage, n=number of family members,
and Y=household income. The lower bound on the transfers to unemployed, pensioners and employed are the
minimum unemployment benefits, minimum pensions and minimum wages respectively.
2/ That is, from above equations, dT/dY=-l for all employment categories. (Assuming Y= w + rA, where
w=wages and r=rate of interest and A=value of the stock of assets).



Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Social Assistance: Number of Recipient Households and Total Monthly Expenditure by Centers, Jan.-June, 1994
January                February                March                   April                   May                     June
Number of    Monthly    Nunber of    Monthly    Numbef of    Monthly    Nunber of    Monthly    Number of    Monthly    Numbef of  Monthly
Munacipaitles    Households  Expenditures  Households  Expendiures  Households  Expenditures  Households  Expenditures   Households  Expenditures   Households  Expenditure.
eromvo             5,125    9.936,772     7,200   12,800,000      7,679   15,085,683     6,497    18,490.740     6,026    23,315,950     6,402    20,580,876
Bitola              797    1,524,075        827    1,565.850       856    1,621.696       794      1,977,199      815      2.021.991      838      2.062,880
8rod               2.015    3,967,920     2,258    4,540,000     2,360    4,850.278      2.416     5,911,420     2,560     6.223.800     2,669     6.360,800
Vablndovo           302      472,953        328      540.702       354      606.728       272       639,023       288       784,599       306       833,106
V'mlca              483    1,160.330        611    1.453,146       714    1,684,238       394      1.960,198      398      2,182,238      776      2,304,483
Ges*e               609    1.400,000        704    1,700,000       726    1,595,000       780      2,290,750      804      2.343,320      815      2,380,200
Gosthwr            1.314    2.883,535     1,387    3,114.474     1,452    3,253,355      1,122     3,620,871     1,267     3.647,317     1.281     3,678,854
Debar              1,003    2,493,480     1.272    2,801,725      1,272    3,144.980     1.096     3,312,149     1,481     4,264,384     1.492     4.763.651
Delcevo                     3,960.509     1,835    5.246,450     2.033    5.991,510      1.612     5.439,470     1.686     5,715,050     1,731     5.847,950
Dea I Him           967    1,892.572      1,049    2,027.056      1,078    2,077,808     1,033     2,566,542     1.085     2,686.061     1,122     2,781,171
Kavadrci            227      372.908        300      500.000       322      567,983       299       658,082       334       716,897       340       718,667
Kkevn              1,116    2,419.854     1,285    2.749,861     1,324    2,843.057      1.199     3.167,770     1,241     3,247,954     1,385     3,384,748
Kocard              728    1,852.810        847    1,996.368       928    2,195,659       963      2,873,363     1,041     3,189.907     1,111     3,527,253
Kratovo            1,312    3.396,297     1,312    3.395.257      1,394    3,029.290     1.476     4,248,864     1,523     4.377,946     1,573     4.500,156
KW"lv Palmnx        191       297,871       250      334,373                410.211       223       484,376                 541,086                 576,443
Krusevo            1.760    3.782,886     1,778    3,779.111      1.915    4,181,800     1.630     4.001,137     1,729     4.309,883     1,740     3.836,300
Kunenovo            442    1,079,146        552    1,238,856       622    1,376,164       252       630,668       600      2.316,066      598      2,550,400
Negotino           2,697    6,771.275     2.900    6,840,316     3.483    7.378,961      3.224     8.718,905     3.503     9,483,687     3.765    10,136,962
Otuld               897    2,006.895        922    1,980.416       922    1,980,416       910      2.534.656      958      2,589,02      994      2,645,277
PrIp               1,536    2,874.078     1,700    3,312,425     1,900    3,612,624                4,388,868     1.808     4,961,280     2,338     5,247,376
Probtip            3,702    6.946.126     4,347    7,800,000     4.347    8,186,144      4.261    10,413,488     4.273    11.041.888     4.659    11,388,907
Radovis             761    1.480.600        812    1.610.600       861    1,760,500       821      1,792,80.      836      1,832.600      861      1.912,600
RPSn                576    1.306,745        61S    1,399,716       626    1,421.106       977      3.300.000     1,001     3.373.500     1,021     3.447,900
Sve lf Nole         393      972A433        493    1.032,269       453    1,057,581       435      1.300.086      449      1,339,448      465      1.366.030
Skope               648    1,229.940        716    1.346,069       7S4    1,414,131       750      1.977,829      834      2,061.8700     J3       2.101,486
Stoluga             675    1,435,371        726    1.813,263       804    2.079,456       818      2.588,CSS      820      2,723,289      914      2,867,412   t
Stunmeks                    3,221.842     1,200    2,400,000     1,180    2.309,859      1.240     2.712,t66     1.170    2300.000      1,260     2.500,000  1D):I
Tstowo              850    1,893.210      1,483    3,0,0.00       1,483    3,750,028     1.779     5.539,821     2,077     6,567,18      2.336     7.497.267  tIX
Tlov Vs                     4,275.232     2,000    4,540.00                4,895,448               6.599.895               6,970,95     2,648     7,285,901   0   C
8s                 1,322    2.878.697     1,427    2,837.138      1,19    3,014.418     1.329     3.328,278     1.486     3.658,433     1,630     4.014,679   W
Totel             32.346   78.953.882    43.134   89,695,341    43,361   97.376,108     37.602   117.468.251    42,073   130.977,653    47.694   133,069,594



Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Social Assistance: Total Recivient Households and Total Monthly Expenditures, 1992-1994
Months    Households     Funds       Households     Funds       Households     Funds
1992                       1993                       1994
January                                      17,627    6,956,000        32,346    78,653,874
Febuary                                     20,418     8,289,000        43,134    89,695,388
March                                       22,018     9,203,000        43,361    97,376,109
April                                       22,769    18,715,000        37,606   117,458,251
May               8,751      444,000        25,519    20,102,000        42,070   130,977,153
June             10,236      602,000        29,419    24,441,000       47695*   133,069,594
July             11,572     1,595,000        30,950    41,079,000
August           13,040     1,854,000        33,859    45,336,000
September        14,027     2,035,000       36,961    48,743,000
October          15,967     3,689,000       34,959    54,063,000
November          18,853    4,553,000        37,472    56,200,000
December         20,745     5,321,000       39,360    61,900,000
Not the final data
OQ  P
(D {
x
w 4
o  c~:



Annex V
Page 1 of 4
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Principles and Criteria for Use of The Labor Redeplovment Fund (LRF)
General Principles:
(a)    Demand: services provided by the LRF would be demand driven and based on requests from
displaced workers and advisory input from the social partners at the level of the affected
community/enterprise.
(b)    Eligible communities: LRF resources would only be available to those communities where an
SOE is undergoing a Privatization Agency approved privatization/restructuring program, and where
the number of workers displaced at the SOE(s) is projected to encompass at least 4 percent of the
workforce in the community and a minimum of 150 workers.
(c)    Eli2ible individuals: LRF financed services would only be available to workers who have
been given notice of dismissal or have been dismissed from SOEs, including workers who are
receiving unemployment benefits as well as those who may have exhausted their benefits. Workers
who are receiving benefits would receive the services described in addition to their unemployment
benefits (with the exception of those receiving stipends under public works programs, because this
would constitute a double income support payment).
(d)    Costs of services: LRF reimbursement to local agencies providing services to workers would
be based on the average unit cost of providing services to a worker times the number of workers
actually participating in the programs. Exceptions would be made in the case of incubator
development where a SOE could be reimbursed for mobilization costs as agreed between the SOE and
Privatization Agency, and reimbursement for community development plans which would be on a
lump sum basis. There is a cap of 25 percent of LRF expenditures on small business assistance and
incubator services, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
(e)    Evaluation of services: Service providers would be required to provide job placement
information for all participants who receive services (see special note on follow-up requirements on
retraining services on the following page).
(f)    Mobility: Labor mobility among displaced workers would be encouraged under the project.
Workers in communities qualifying for assistance under the Fund would be eligible for services in
their communities or in other communities receiving assistance under the Fund. To support this
initiative, the EAG would collect and disseminate information on services available through the Fund
throughout the country. Employment and counseling services would include information on national
job vacancies and associated training opportunities. The Fund could support relocation costs for
displaced workers to move to localities where suitable jobs are available. It could also support
transportation for participants in training programs and public works programs.



Annex V
Page 2 of 4
Criteria for Specific Services:
Criteria for Employment/Counseling and Relocation Services:
1.     Eligible Services; Job/social counseling, provision of labor market information, job
search/job club programs, labor exchange and placement services.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: Employment Bureau Local offices, non-government non-
profit agencies (NGOs), private firms, and other labor organizations that demonstrate
minimum capabilities to provide services (e.g. trained staff, facilities, financial viability,
placement capability).
3.     Eligible Costs: staff and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, non-durable
equipment and materials, client transportation for job interviews, depreciation of capital
equipment limited to 20% per year, and relocation expenses including travel of family and
transport of personal belongings to a maximum of US$ 500 per family unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank.
Criteria for Retraining Services:
1.     Eligible Services: vocational skills, literacy, communications (including foreign
language) and mathematics skills, small business skills training and management training for
existing enterprise managers involved in restructuring programs.
2.     Eligible Agencies and Costs: (a) Private and public training institutions would be
reimbursed for: staff and administrative personnel costs, rent and utilities, non-durable
equipment and materials, trainee transportation, depreciation of capital equipment purchased
limited to 20% per year, maximum length of training per client - 12 months. (b) Enterprises
(providing training for their own workers) would be eligible for reimbursement for; (i) half
of the total unit costs; or (ii) instructor costs, participant transportation, and non-durable
costs not to exceed 20 percent of staff costs, whichever is less.
Note: In order to facilitate labor mobility, SOEs would have the option of developing
training contracts with public or private training institutions and/or enterprises in their
community or any other communities. These contracts could be for individual and/or groups
of displaced workers, and these workers could participate in training in their community or
other communities. All training contracts are to include a pre-negotiated rate of job placement
in the range of 60-90 percent and would include incentives for exceeding agreed placement
rates (e.g. 10 percent bonus payments) and disincentives for not achieving agreed placement
rates (e.g. the withholding of 10 percent of final payment for training services and loss of
eligibility for further contracts). Information confirming labor market demand (e.g. review
and advisory comment by employer, union, and government representatives, evidence of
trainee demand) are required before training contracts are finalized between private/public
training agencies and SOEs or local organizations. Training service providers would be
required to provide follow-up job placement information to the Privatization Agency both
when participants exit training and on a samnple of at least 25 percent of trainees three months
after program exit.



Annex V
Page 3 of 4
Criteria for Public Works Projects:
1.     Eligible Services: environmental cleanup, refurbishment of public infrastructure
including SOE sites., etc. Local organizations proposing projects must provide evidence that
the program will not displace normal employment (e.g. program is endorsed by local union
representatives and private employer representatives).
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: exclude the private sector but include local government and
non-profit community organizations. Agencies proposing projects must provide evidence of
administrative and financial viability and technical ability to supervise and implement the
Project.
3.     Eligible Costs: supervisory personnel costs, maximum funding for worker stipends is
minimum wage however proposing organizations are encouraged to supplement minimum
wage by at least 20 %; worker transportation, utilities, consumable material and non-durable
goods (limited to 20% of total Project cost). Maximum length of individual participation in
projects - 6 months, maximum project cost - US$50,000 without no-objection of the Bank.
Criteria for Small Business Assistance Programs:
1.     Eligible Services: provision of advice and assistance (e.g. legal, marketing,
sales, financial and accounting services, inventory control, etc.) to the unemployed SOE
workers who wish to start, or who are in the first year of operating, small businesses.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: excluding government agencies but including private
agencies, autonomous public organizations, statutory occupational/labor/employer
organizations, foundations, associations, and other NGOs.
3.     Eligible Costs: personnel, client transportation, utilities and rent, consumable and non-
durable goods, maximum 20% depreciation per year on durable goods, 20% cost recovery
from clients to be maintained.
Criteria for Small Business Incubator Programs:
1.     Eligible Services: facilities for micro entrepreneurs, technical assistance to
entrepreneurs, services and equipment to be shared by participants, short term working capital
fund to be made available to incubator clients at positive real interest rates.
2.     Eligible Local Agencies: excluding government agencies, but including private
agencies and enterprises, autonomous public organizations, statutory occupational/labor
organizations, foundations, associations, and other NGOs. Applicants will be judged on
availability of facilities that can be donated and renovated, qualifications of management staff,
linkages with existing small business organizations and financing institutions,
financial/administrative capabilities, experience with small business start-ups.
3.     Eligible Costs: facility refurbishment and/or rent, start -up capital for revolving fund
for entrepreneurs located in the incubator (max. US$ 50,000 to be lent only to incubator



Annex V
Page 4 of 4
participants at positive real interest rates), general equipment, limited staff/administrative costs
(e.g. a manager), consumable supplies and non-durable goods, operating expenses with an
agreed rate of cost-reimbursement phase-out from 100 to 0 % over 3 years.
Criteria for Local Economic Development Planning Grants (maximum of 10 grants to be provided).
1.    Eligible Services: Development of proposals, plans, studies, investment projects, and
promotional materials on local economic potential.
2.    Eligible Local Agencies: excluding state government agencies; but including local
government agencies, local chambers of commerce, and non-government non-profit agencies.
3.    Eligible Costs: local consultant salaries and fees, local travel and per-diem,
consumable materials and supplies (maximum grant US$50,000 per community) .



Annex VI
Page 1 of 1
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Procurement Plan
Procurement Package       Total Cost   Total IDA        Procurement   Noticel        Document      Contract
US$S000    Financing       Method          invitation    Issue        Award
USS'000
Equipment, Furniture &
Matertals
Employment Bureau Automation       600           600             LIB           4195          7/95         11/95
Social Benefit Office Automation   600           600             LIB           4/95          7/95         11/95
Vehicles                           200           200             LIB           3/95          6/95          9/95
Subtotal IS             1.400          1,400
Office Equipment and Funiture
Enterprise Analysis Unit   45            45              NS            N/A          N/A           3/95
Pre-Layoff Services    25            25              NS            N/A          N/A           3/95
Post-Layoff Services    30            30              NS            N/A          N/A           3195
Employment Bureau       30            30              NS            N/A          N/A           6/95
Projection Coordination    35            35              NS           N/A           N/A           3/95
Media Coordination Unit     35            35              NS            N/A          N/A           5/95
Ministry of Labor/Statistics  45            45              NS           N/A           N/A           4/95
Ministry of Finance    25            25              NS            N/A          N/A           4/95
Privatization Agency    45            45              NS            N/A          N/A           3/95
Software and Materials
Enterprise Analysis Unit   30            30            NS/DP           N/A          N/A          1995-97
Pre-Layoff Services    45            45            NS/DP           N/A          N/A          1995-97
Post-Layoff Services    35            35            NS/DP           N/A          N/A         1995-97
Employment Bureau       45            45            NS/DP           N/A          N/A         1995-97
Projection Coordination   N/A           N/A            NS/DP          N/A           N/A         1995-97
Media Coordination Unit     15            15            NSIDP           N/A          N/A         1995-97
Min. of Labor/Statistics   15            15            NS/DP          NIA           N/A         1995-97
Ministry of Finance    15             15            NS/DP          N/A          N/A          1995-97
Privatization Agency    35            35            NS/DP           N/A          N/A          1995-97
Subtotal LS/DP             550           550
Technical Assistance & Training
Labor Redeployment                3,300          3,300            SL            1/95         2/95          3/95
Employment Bureau                   400           400             SL           4/95          5/95          7/95
Project Coordination                100            100            CS            1/95         2/95          2/95
Media Coordination/Survey            100           100            SL            3/95         4/95          7/95
Pub. Information Camnpaign        1,000         I .000            SL           4/95          6/95          8/95
Social Benefit Programs           1,200          1 ,200           SL            1/95         2/95          3/95
Special Restructuring Program     2,200          2,200            SL            1/95         2/95          3/95
Subtotal TA & Training        8.300         8.300
Labor Redeployment F'und          5.000          3,750           Fund           N/A          N/A         1995-98
Operating Costs                    1 800         NBF             N/A
TOTALS                 13B400         14.000
LB = Luted International Bidding            DP   DirCt purCnaSe for proprietary items or training materials
SL = Short listing of firms                  CS = Competitive selection of individuals
Fund = Labor Redeployment Fund               NS   national shopping (minimum of three price quotations)
NBF = Non Bank/IDA Financed



Annex VIl
Page I of I
The Fonner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Technical Assistance
(personl/months)
Procurement   External       Local       External
Component/Subcomponent               Package    Consultants   Consultants   Training
Labor Redeployment::
Enterprise Analysis            # 1          22           400          31
Pre-Layoff Services            # 1           7            96          12
Post-Layoff Services           # 1           27           26          30
Employment Bureau              # 2           15           16           8
Project Coordination           # 3            5            -           2
Public Information Campaign *
Media Coordination Unit        # 4
Monitoring Surveys             # 4
Public Information Campaign    # 5
Social Benefit Programs
Social Assistance              # 6           13            2           9
Actuarial Planning of Pensions    # 6        14            -           6
Social Benefit Contributions   # 6           13            --          5
Special Restructuring Program         # 7          76            96           --
TOTAL                         192           636         103
* A dollar budget was developed for the Public Media Campaign component on the basis of industry
standards for developing media surveys and media campaigns, including campaign production costs,
agency fees and purchasing media. Person/month figures are not applicable to this component.



IBRD 25501
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                    \      
I ; \ ; > / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORMERYUGOSLAVREPUBLIC OF
                              f                   Pre#vo2| w.x^_ _ _.t   _u--P-kJ                                                                            MACEDONIA
r  * -- <    -!Blcsce   Ia0m   Ku/nxonovo_   - ~        t                                                            (3        Major cifies
( * ~~~~ Jegunovce * t - s r :edffim & \ * Seleded cities~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~elcte ciie
\ 9 ru2-   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \    8   g          >rS                  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary roads
r>;.o  /   O'   )  N        S         '     -  <v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ~~~Serondary roads
\ ^2aswm  Gcstlwo.  ,?  9_    \   i\        P                                    \                                         |    ElectriFied railrorJds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~letriiedralroid
. Peshkop,; v . Volkovilo n VeW i Sbp X -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Othler roilroads
2 -,  _   r,  \-- /  <                                   X              *    \                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
- . Debcor   _   i;-.   _. - ~~~~~~~~~~ < <    4   ,   /   * <   ~     ~        ~        ~        ~        ~               --*-   intemationol oontmaunnol doundrie
,  _                      ~~~~~~~K-c Aw                                                                                                                0        is       3D i'   r  o   5   xER
Lib,czhd    \ St,ugc.*_ +   |      152  t/      WPrip                                            \1     Mo                                                                                EESr4dniibv2tpvol  cUrG
,   ,   -  -    _.   .\   /^  t a   o  vISim   >/   2i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%->belijA   onO.,Wo   /                                    ax LYfLYWCw hW          -M
Lib                      C     ^R .hd_, 
t - \ 1 . f $s / Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGSTAV^. UGRIA
A~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 L                        tBi AHUNGKreg       '                             v      //~          ~ <IAYARYx
. . .i GREECE TUGREEC
L_          ROM~~~ANIAR  I 9









I



