Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2722 MK
                       Development Credit Agreement
             (Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                 THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                              (THE BORROWER)
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             (THE ASSOCIATION)
                            Dated June 27, 1995
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                                                       CREDIT NO. 2722 MK
      AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1995, between the Borrower and
the Association.
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
Page  2
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
                   "Except as the Association and the Borrower
            shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:
            (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
            any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Privatization Agency" or "PA" means the Borrower's
Agency for Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital
established pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Law on
the Transformation of Enterprises with Social Capital published
in the Official Gazette of the Borrower, Issue 38 of 1993;
      (b)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established
by the Borrower within the Privatization Agency for overall
coordination of the Project;
      (c)   "SOE" means Socially Owned Enterprise, with the
meaning of the Borrower's Law on Transformation of Enterprises
with Social Capital, published in the Official Gazette of the
Borrower, Issue 38 of 1993;
      (d)   "LRF" means the Labor Redeployment Fund of the
Borrower established as a separate budget allocation at the
Privatization Agency with the purpose of financing the services
related to the reallocation of displaced workers from SOE's
undergoing restructuring;
      (e)   "POM" means the Project Operational Manual of the
Borrower for the Project, approved by the Association;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 30, 1994 and
January 27, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
Page  3
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October
15 commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2030.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April
15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
Page  4
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
Page  5
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  6
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Dame Gruev 14
            91000 Skopje
                                           Telex:
                                              51119
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         THE BORROWER
                         By  /s/  Ljubica Z. Acevska
                                                Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By  /s/  Rachel Lomax
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
Page  7
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods                       1,160,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Services for Part            2,410,000      75%
    A.3 of the Project
(3) Consultants' Ser-            4,370,000      100%
    vices, training
    and technical
    assistance
(4) Refunding of                   640,000      Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                    420,000
                                 _________
      TOTAL                      9,000,000
                                 =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,400,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date, but after
January 1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the
restructuring of socially owned enterprises through actions to
reduce the individual and community impacts of worker
Page  8
dislocation; to improve the delivery of social benefits and the
collection of payroll contributions for social benefits, to
enhance the public awareness of the rationale for reform
policies, and to support the continuing implementation of the
enterprise restructuring program of the Borrower.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
A.    Labor Redeployment
      Support the redeployment of labor in communities affected
by large-scale enterprise restructuring by:
1.    Analyzing the labor requirements of socially-owned
enterprises (SOEs) which are undergoing restructuring or
privatization.
2.    Provision of technical assistance supporting the pre-
layoff adjustment services provided to workers in SOEs
scheduled for downsizing or liquidation, including orientation
sessions for SOE managers and labor representatives; planning
services for SOEs; job counseling; and identification of
participants in active labor programs.
3.    Provision of post-layoff services to the displaced
workers, through the Labor Redeployment Fund (LRF), to
accelerate their return to productive employment.
4.    Provision of technical assistance and equipment to the
Employment Bureau services for job seekers.
5.    Establishment of a PCU to support overall project
implementation.
B.    Public Information Program
1.    Creation of a Media Coordinating Unit in the Privatization
Agency to oversee the public information program.
2.    Conducting of surveys to assess public knowledge and
opinion on economic reform issues to guide the development of
an effective public information program.
3.    Development and implementation of a public media program
to inform the public of the rationale for specific reform
measures.
C.    Social Benefit Programs
1.    Development of objective poverty criteria as a basis for
targeting social assistance.
2.    Development of actuarially-based pension planning.
3.    Improvement of payroll tax collection by improving
business registration procedures and strengthening audit and
enforcement controls.
D.    Enterprise Restructuring Technical Assistance
1.    Establishment and support for the Trustee Unit at the
Privatization Agency to manage enterprise restructuring.
2.    Acceleration of the privatization of viable SOEs and
liquidation of non-viable SOEs in the Special Restructuring
Program pursuant to the Borrower's Law on the Transformation of
some Loss-Making Enterprises dated January 17, 1995, and agreed
with the Association.
3.    Introduction and enforcement of financial controls on
Page  9
external resources provided to enterprises from the state
budget or the banking system.
4.    Identification of the post-privatization technical
assistance needs of SOEs.
                                   * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, items or
groups of items for goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Direct Contracting
       Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing
$50,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.    Service contracts for incubators under the Labor
Redeployment Fund, with a value not to exceed US$350,000 will
be procured, contracted, and awarded on the basis of
competitive selection procedures following principles and
criteria defined in Schedule 4, Part B.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms or individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Association, or (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms and individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the
purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
A.    Overall Project Implementation
1.    Overall responsibility for carrying out the Project shall
be assigned by the Borrower to the Privatization Agency, and
for this purpose and for the purpose of facilitating the
efficient implementation of the Project and of the other
activities and programs of the PA, the Borrower shall ensure
that a Project Coordination Unit consisting of a project
coordinator, procurement assistant and secretary is maintained
in the Privatization Agency under the direction of the Director
of the Transformation and Restructuring Department. The PCU
shall be responsible for coordinating all Project-related
tasks.
2.    In order to: (a) assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants with
qualifications and experience, and, with terms of reference set
forth in the POM in accordance with a time schedule
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) ensure that qualified
management and staff in adequate numbers, including for the
units referred to in paragraphs A.1, B.1, C and D of this
Schedule, are made available and maintained as required for the
carrying out of the Project and thereafter for sustaining the
objectives thereof.
B.    Part A of the Project
1.    The Privatization Agency, under the general guidance of
the Managing Board of the Privatization Agency, shall be
Page  11
responsible for implementation of the first three labor
redeployment sub-components:  enterprise analysis, pre-layoff
services, and post-layoff services and shall be assisted by an
Enterprise Assistance Group (EAG), to be maintained with said
Agency, responsible for the administration of these sub-
components.
2.    The Labor Redeployment Fund shall only be used to finance
post-layoff labor redeployment services which meet principles
and criteria agreed with the Association.
3.    Prior to selection of the labor redeployment technical
assistance contractor, the Privatization Agency shall select
six individuals to work in the EAG as long-term, full-time,
consultant staff under the technical assistance contract.
4.    The Employment Bureau (EB) will be the implementation
agency for development of this sub-component of the labor
redeployment program which includes development of the model
local employment bureau and the automation of all local
bureaus.
5.    By the time the Employment Bureau technical assistance is
contracted, the National Employment Bureau shall establish and
maintain an Automation Department at the Employment Bureau and
staff it with four full-time professionals and provide three
additional full-time professional staff to support development
of model job vacancy listing, job search, and labor market
information programs;
C.    Part B of the Project
      The Privatization Agency shall be responsible for
organization, execution and implementation of the Public
Information Campaign. The PA shall establish by August 30, 1995
and maintain a Media Coordination Unit (MCU) and the Borrower
shall ensure that MCU shall be staffed with five personnel.
D.    Part C of the Project
1.    The Social Assistance Sub-component shall be implemented
by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy in cooperation with
the Statistical Agency.
2.    The Actuarial Analysis Sub-component shall be implemented
by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP). A
coordinating committee will be maintained consisting of
representatives from concerned agencies. The Borrower shall
ensure that MOLSP shall, by the time the technical assistance
is contracted: (i) identify and assign three staff members to
work in the Actuarial Unit, and (ii) maintain an Automation
Unit in the Social Assistance Department and staff it with two
full-time professionals.
3.    The Payroll Tax Compliance Sub-component shall be
implemented by the Ministry of Finance. A coordinating
committee shall be maintained for that purpose consisting of
representatives from concerned agencies.
E.    Part D of the Project
      The Special Restructuring Program shall be directed by a
special inter-ministerial committee chaired by the Minister of
Economy, and administered by a Trustee Unit which shall be
vested with ownership rights over the SOEs. The Trustee Unit
shall be located at the Ministry of Economy.  The Borrower
shall ensure that the Ministry of Economy would, by the time
the technical assistance contract supporting the restructuring
program is negotiated, identify and hire a manager and two
support staff for the Trustee Unit.
                                SCHEDULE 5
Page  12
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  13
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
Page  14
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
