Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqewt Now 12546
PROJECT COMPLETION REWORT
SENEGAL
EASTERN RURAL DEVELOPPMET PROLJECT
(CREDIT 1406-SE)
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
Mi T CROGSRAPHI C3
Report No:         12546
Iype: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahel Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



AlBREVIATIONS
ABP                 Association de Base de Producteurs
(Pre-Cooperative Mutual Guarmtee Village Group)
AFVP                Association FranVaise des Volontaires du Progrts
(French Non-Governmental Organization)
CBPP                Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia (Perie-pneumonie contagieuse
bovine)
CCCE                Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economique (Freiich Development Aid
Agency)
CFDT                Compagnie Frangaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(French Company for Textile Fiber Development)
CPSP                Caisse de P4requation et de Stabilisation des Prix (Price Stabilization Fund)
DSPA                Direction de la Sante et des Productions Animales (Livestock Department)
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FAC                 Fonds d'Aide et de Coope:ation (French Aid/Cooperation Fund)
FAO/CP              United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program (Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque Mondiale)
ISRA                Institut SWndgalais de Recherches Agricoles
(Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
PDESO               Projet de Dveloppement de l'Elevage au Senegal Oriental
(Eastern Senegal Livestock Development Project)
PDRSO               Projet de Developpement Rural au S&engal Oriental
(Eastern Senegal Rural Development Project)
SAL                 Structral Adjustment Loan.
SODEFITEX           Societ6 pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(Cotton Development Agency)
SODEVA              Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Agricultural Extension and Development Agency)
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July I - June 30
SODEFITEX: October I - September 30



OMCIAL US OLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off,t of DlEr.toe-Gel                                                 November 24, 1993
Op. Wona Evaluaftio
MMQORANDUM TO THE                     D      RRECTORS ANM THE PI_DENT
SUBJECD: Project Completion Report on Senegal
Eastern Rural Develonment Proiect (Credit 1406-SE!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Senegal - Eastern Rural
Development Project (Credit 1406SE) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part I was
prepared by the Borrower. The project was cofinanced by CCCE and FAC (of Franc) and the
Saudi Fund for Development who did not provide comment.
The project aimed to reduce the region's dependence on groundauts by increasing
the production of cotton and cerealL Secondary objectives were to privatize agricultural sevices
(through farmers' groups), improve rural infrasct  and health services, and to strengthen the
cotton development agency (SODEFrIE. Physical implementation and results were impresse
with respect to extension services, formation of farmers' groups and service privatization,
agricultural research, agricultural credit (including recoveries), improved cotton ginning and
storage facilities, feeder roads (although maintenance problems remain), vilage water supplies and
primary health centers SODEFiEX'; capabilities were improved. Monitonng and evaluation
activities were satisfactory. Accordingly, the Region as well as the Borrower consider the project
a success.
While Bank and Borrower performance were satisfactory, exogenous factors
damaged project outcomes. Cotton production suffered severe shocks: adverse weather was
followed in 1985 by world cotton prices collapsing and by decreased input subsiies in 1986.
Cotton production feU by a third and never fully recovered, although maize production exceeded
appraisal targets.
Accodgly, the economic rate of return of the project is negati  Despite
significant innovations with respect to farming systems, rural infrastructure, and farmers' organiza-
tions, the outcome of the project is rated as marginally unsatisfactory with unliely sustainability
and partial achievement of institutional development objectves.  tree problems remain the
poor financial state of SODEFITEXK, the lack of road maintenance and the continuing need for a
viable diversification strategy.
The PCR is of good quality despite some presentational deficiencies mainly on
project costs tables.
An audit is underway.
Attachment
This docu_met ha a restrted distbudon and may be used by redpients ordy In the peformance of
theiroff duties. kt contents may not otherwse be disclosed wiu Wold Bank authoretion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(CREDIT 140-)
Table gt Contents
PREFACE                                     .................                        I
EVALUATIONSUMMARY .....................
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANrS PERSPEcTnvE                       .               1
A. Project Identiy ............,                                      .      I
B. Project Background                        .I
C. Project Objectves and Description.                                       2
D. Project Design and Organizadon.                                          3
E. Project Prepaaon and Implement. ..on                                     4
F. PojectResults ...........                                                S
G. ProjectSutainabiity.                                                      8
H. Bank Performance .8
. Borrower Peformance.                                                      8
L. Lessons Learned.                                                         9
PART H - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS PERSPECTVE .10
A. BankPerformance .10
B. Project Iplementaion .10
C. Performance of CofinancigPa^s   .........................    16
PART m  - STATISTICAL INFORMATION .............................                     17
1. Related BankLoausand/orCredi . ..17
2. Project rTiuble    ..17
3. Credit Disbursements .18
4. Project Implementtion...                                                 19
A. Cotton Production ................................    19
B. Maie Production.19
C. Feeder Road Consucton .20
D. Vilbge War Supply ..............................    20
5. Projec Costs and Fiacing          ..21
A. Projec Costs .21
B. Project FDancing.21
6. Proje Results    ..22
A. Project Benecari.22
B. Economic Impa .                                                  22
C. Fnanci Impact. .23
7. StatusofCovenan . ..24
8. UseofBank Resources    ..29
A. Staff Inputs .29
B. Missions .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



' -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOQRT
SENEGAL
EASTERN RURbL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT I4f6SE}
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Eastern Senegal Rural Development
Project in Senegal, for which Credit 1406-SE in the amount SDR 14.9 million was approved on August
2, 1983. The Development Credit became effective on October 5, 1984. The Credit was closed on June
30, 1991, two years later than envisaged and was fu;, disbursed. The Project was cofinanced by the
Saudi Fund for Development, the French Ministry of Cooperation, and the Caisse FranVaIse de
dveoppement (former CCCE).
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division, Sahel Department, Africa
Region. The Borrower provided Part II of the report. The draft PCR was sent to the cofinanciers for
comments, but no comments were received.
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the
Credit Agreement, supervision, Borrower, and Cofinanciers' reports, and correspondence contained in
the Bank's project files.



- iii -
PXW CI CMPETIO  REPORT
BSISR RURA IEVELD         PROJECT
--CREI) T I4 E)
gYALUAnON SUMMA6Y
V          Tbe Project was itended to assist farmers outside the densely populated groundu basin
and at the same time to diversify Senegal's agriculture-dependent economy from groundnts into cotton.
Specific objectives were, over a five-year period, to: (a) increase production of cotton and cereals -
maiwy sorghum/millet and mize; (b) develop livestock actvities through the promotion of animal
traction, improvement of animal health and improvement of feed quality; (c) improve essential rural
infrastructure, especially feeder roads, village water supplies, and primary health care; (d) assist village
farmer groups; and (e) strengthen the project executing agencies.
jectLDesiegn
ii)        Except for the Northern Livestock subcompotent, the Project was to be implemented by
SODEFITEX, a Senegalese parastatal responsible for the country's cotton sector. As executing agency,
SODEFITEX wa-s responsible fo, the country's 'fture coton", a comprehensive cotton development
program spanning all aspects, from research - in cooperation with the national agricultural research
agency - to extension, agricultural credit, markedng Qocal and foreign), and processing. Ihe project's
livestock-related activities were to be implemented by PDESO, a government unit created under the
Eastern Senegal Livestock Development Project (Cr. 633-SE).
iii)       Major project components included (a) strengtheningof SODEFITEX management capacity;
(b) support to SODEFITEX and farmers in the development/improvement of cotton and cereal
production; (c) improving SODEFITEX cotton processing and storage facilities; (d) assistance to farmer
village associations (ABPs); (e) upgrading and/or construction of about 800 km of feeder roads;
(t) construction of village tubewells and open wells; (g) renovation of village health posts; (b)
stengthenng of applied research with special emphasis to establish closer links between research and
extension; and (i) assistance to livestock development in the project area and consolidation of
achievements of the First Livestock Project (para ii).
Implementation Experience
iv)        The Project was identified by the French agency, CCCE, and prepared by a consulting firm.
Appraisal took place in May/June 1982. Following Board approval on August 2, 1983, Credit
effectiveness was delayed by almost a year, due to lengthier-than-expected legal preparations in Senegal
(changes in the legal status of producer groups) and the inordinate time required for the signing of
cofinancier agreements.



iv -
v)         Once the Credit became effective, project investments progressed as envisaged. Cotton
development was negatively influenced by the sharp decline of world cotton prices. This had serious
repercussions for the finances of SODEFITEX, and -the problem remained unresolved until project
completion. These difficulties were further exacerbated by poor rainfall in some project years, which
led farmers to reduce acreage under cotton. Project achievements were closely monitored through Bank
and CCCE supervision efforts. The Bank-supported Monitoring and Evaluation Unit provided valuable
insights into production costs, farm budgets, etc. Project accounts were kept up to date and audited
regularly. Procurement of project-financed goods and services was in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines.
Projec Execution
vi)        Implementation of most Project components went well once the Credit became effective.
Implementation experience for the various components can be summarized as follows:
a) Extension Services: over the project implementation period, there was considerable
improvement in the quality of extension personnel, which became largely competent to
extend advice in agroforestry, livestock and natural resource mnagement. Most beneficial
was the extension work in connection with assisting the establishment and operation of
furmer village associations (ABPs). The number of ABPs increased in the project area from
160 in 1984185 to 492 by 1990191. The increasing role played by ABPs relieved the
Government of responsibilities for marketing, storage, and credit management.
b) lip  purcbases were below expectations due to the difficuties encountered by the cotton
sector (para. vii). Fertilizer and pesticide sales were lower than projected during appraisal,
as was the sale of agricultural equipment, with the exception of ox-arts.
c) Agriculturl credit in the amount of CFAF 1,071 million was made available to farmers.
Due to the involvement of ABPs and introduction of legal action against defaulters,
repayment rates increased from 78% in 1984 to 95% in 1990.
d)The Ij1Wogk component performed well. The vaccination campaign against Rinderpest
and bovine peripneumonia was successful. While supplementary feeding of draft animals
was also successful, silage production and supplementary feeding of salts and minerals were
relatively unsuccessfil.
e) EeWer road construction exceeded the appraisal estimates (para. iii). However, the issue
of periodic heavy road maintenance, which was to be performed by the Government's
Public Works Services, was not resolved prior to project completion due to Government
reluctance attributable to a lack of recurrent budget fiuds.
f) Villag water supplies construcd or improved under the Project far exceeded appraisal
projections. A total of 134 facilities (as against 60 foreseen at appraisal) were provided
under the Project.
g) Support to SODEFITEX was provided in the form of construction of two seed cotton
silos, storage sheds for bales, office and housing facilities, etc. Equipment for existing



cotton ginneries was procured under the Project, which also financed the installation of fire
,ontrol equipment.
h) The   alth M         permitted the improvement of 31 health posts and the
establishment of five pharmaceutical depots.
i) Under the Notern       subcomponent, actions introduced under the IDA-financed
First Livestock Project (creation of herders' associations, literacy training, range
managent) were continued and expanded to include land and water conservation.
vii)       Cotton production fell substantially short of appraisal projections because farmers found
groundnut cultivation more remunerative due to the relatively high groundaut producer prices set by the
Government and the low return to labor on cotton. Ihe problem worsened with the reduction of cotton
input subsidies in 1986. As a resut, cotton acreage declined and never reached pre-project levels during
Implementation: total seed cotton production declined from 46,900 t in 1984 to 29,300 t in 1990 before
rebounding however to 44,900 t in 1991.
viii)      Millet/sorghum production also fell short of expectations. Estimates had put the acreage
under these two crops at 31,040 ha and per hectare yields at 1,100 kg for the year 1989/90, but only
27,186ha (88 % of estimated acreage) and 1,000kg/ha (91 % of appraisal estimate) were accomplished.
ix)        Only maize production exceeded expectations. The 1989/90 maize acreage was 14,237 ha,
surpassing the estimated area of 13,000 ha, and yields of 2,250 kg/ha were above appraisal estimates
(2,106 kg/ha). The return per labor day explains the success of maize under the Project. With yields of
2,500 kg/ha attained by Project farmers, returns per day worked were more than three times the reurns
on cotton.
x)         The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the Project is negative due to the disappointing
trends in international cotton prices, the resulting loss of farmers' interest in cotton cultivation, as well
as the occurrence of poor weather during several years of project implementation. Cotton acreage and
total output remained below pre-project levels, whereas sorghum/millet production remained more or less
stagnant. As noted, maize production increased but, due to the relatively modest importance of this crop,
this increase does not render the ERR positive.
xi)        Although the ERR was negative, the Project should not be qualified as a failure. Maize
production increased considerably, the construction and rehabilitation of village wells far exceeded
projections, and the creation of self-managed farmer/herder associations was highly successful. TIe
livestock/agriculture integration exceeded its objectives through the high adoption rate of on-farm manure
production and collection, and nural road construction has helped to open up a vast area previously
inaccessible to any vehicle.
xii)       The literacy training campaign was a notable success and has contributed to rural
development in the area. Some farmers within each village are now able to assume responsibility for
group action, and extension is thereby facilitated. SODEF1TEX intends to develop a one-year (instead
of two-year) program to further reduce-the-drop-out rate.



- vi ^
xiii)      As long as world cotton prices remain at their current low levels, cotton development
projects face serious thas in all Sahelia countries. Given its present economic situation and slim
recurret budget resources, Senegal (like most countries of the Sahel) is not In a position to ensure
maintenne of project-financed infrastructures. Additional donor assistance is likely to be needed to
ensure maintece of project investments, especially feeder roads.
Comm.as on Borrgwer's Views
xiv)       Ihe Borrower's views and assessment of project results Pat II of this report) is thorough
and generally in agreement with Bank staff findings. The Borrower concludes its project review by
stating that the Project "must be considered a success both as regards the quality of activities and the
results achieved in overall development (iteracy, famers' associations, management training,
livestock/agriculture integration, water supply and agricultural infrastructure, and extension technology)".
There is no doubt that, in these respects, the Project has been successful. However, given the collapse
of wodd cotton prices, combined with Senegal's very difficult economic situation, the Project did not
achieve its main objectives, and the sustainability of project-financed investments is far from assured.
The Borrower deplores the fact that Bank supervision in later project years focussed on the Project's
financW aspects, leavig the supervision of more technical aspects exclusively to CCCE, and that the
Bank therefore did not fully appreciate the Project impact on rural development in Eastern Senegal. That
statement is correct insofar as Bank supervision missions in the later project years did indeed concentrate
on the Project's financial aspects; it does not imply that the Bank was uninterested in any other aspects.
It was felt that CCCE was in a better position to perform technical supervision because of the permanent
presence of CCCE staff in Senegal and their excellent qualifications. The Bank was regularly informed
by the CCCE, however, of Project progress and results. Closer technical supervision by the Bank would
have had little impact on implemention.
Ies ons Learned
xv)        First, ERRs should not be considered the only measurement of project success or failure.
Despite the overall negative ERR based solely on the project's cotton results, a substantial number of
project components were a -cess:   (a) a substandal increase in maize production; (b)
livestock/agriculture integration; (c) the creation of self-managed farmer/herder associations and literacy
training; (d) village water supply; (e) primary health infrastructure; and (t) rural road construction.
xvi)        Second, probable farmer attitudes regarding favored farming/crop rotation systems should
have been evaluated closely dunng Project preparation/appraisal. Maize production was successful
becase of the bigh reurn per labor day input. While there are good prospects for developing this crop
furither in the Project area, expanded production would require efforts towards improved research,
extension, and markletig. Farmers favored groundnuts over cotton production. Although returns from
cotton per hectare would have been slightly above per hectare returns from groundnuts, farmers'
calculations seemed to center on returns per labor day input. Considering that land and family labor are
available, this development should not come as a surprise.
xvii)      Third, integration of livestock into agricultwal activities can lead to important synergies and
progress. The Project demonstrated the wisdom of on-farm organic manure production and the



- vii -
consequent beneficial effect of this manure on crop yields.. It also showed the need to include soil
conservation and soil fertility improvment measures in crop development projects.
xviii)     Fourth, establishment and support of farmer groups (ABPs, in the case of this Project)
demonstated that several functions usually performed by the Governent, such as Input procurement,
credit admisation, extension fnctons, marketing, maintenanei of village water supplies, etc., can be
successfully transferred to these farmer groups. In order to operate successfully, however, these groups
must have some literate members.
xix)       The Project-supported liteacy campaign was highly successful, and indications are that the
smooth functioning of farmer groups increases with the number of literate membes The main factors
explahing the success of the Project in this difficult area seem to be: (a) fatuiers' strong desire to be
equipped to deal with the outside world; (b) the fact that farmers must invest time and money in their
literacy training; (c) the competence and motivation of the extension agents who perforn the literacy
training; and (d) the fact that producer groups that have enough literate people are encouraged by
SODEFITEX to take on economic activities for which they are remunerated. Similar groups are coming
into being in many parts of Senegal as part of the Goveroment's policy to encourage the emergence of
producer groups.



PART I
RLmi
(Grr 1406 sD
PART ,1A PROJECT FRMOR l               M I¢N$ 
A. ftoect Identitz
Project Name:                       Eastern Rural Development Piject
Credit No.:                         1406-SE
RVP Unit:                           Africa
County:                             Senegal
Sector:                             Agriculture
Subsector:                          Rural Development
B. Proiect Bacaground
Sector Development Objectives
1.           The Government's long-range development strategy in the eady 1980s was based on the
promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricultural program
called for development of areas less susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash
crops other than groundouts can be grown. Agricultural research was to be oriented more towards
farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the cost of yield-raising
agricultural techniques and better adapting them to farmers' constraints. Irrigated cerea production was
to be developed in the ard northern part of the country along the Senegal River.
2.           Government efforts to develop agriculture were at that time directed toward:
(a) providing inputs for the rural sector; (b) organizing farmer cooperatives to facilitate credit and
marketing; (c) increasing and diversifying production by promoting new crops and developing livestock;
(d) encouraging migration to, and settlement in, suitable undeirpulated areas; and (e) developing the
country's irrigation potential, especially in the Senegal River Basin and in the Casamance region, to
reduce reliance on imported food grains. TMe major instuments for this policy were the parastatal
regional development agtua:. With financial and technical ass;qtance from major donors, including the
World Bank Group, the Government made significant efforts in the early 1980s to reduce the size and
improve the efficiency of these institutions, and to involve farmers in the decision-making processes of
greatest concern to them.



-2                                   PAItT I
Rural Development an.d Sebseflctr Devlpgment Objectives
3.           Govemment's efforts to develop the rural sector were guided by the following objectives:
(a) increasing real incomes and general standard of living; (b) achieving a balance in development -
tbetween regions, between alternative industril or export crops, and between export crops and cereals;
(c) miaximum protection of agricultural production from weather hazards; and (d) increasing domestic
value-added for agricultural products exported, reducing food imports and encouraging import
substitution.
4.           To achieve these objectives, the Government's first priority had been to restructure and
reorient official institutions promoting development and production in the rural sector. lhe crop
development agencies wer.- gradually being replaced by regional rural development agencies that were
expected to provide extersion, crop processing and marketing and input supply services. In most cases,
it .vas assumed that such agencies would have a principal crop of interest during a transition period, but
the intention was that they should develop ir.; instruments for truly integrated regional development.
More importantly, since 1972 the participation of rural populations in development had been given real
meaning by the creation of hierarchical development committees at district, departmental and regional
levels. The basic (district-level) structure consisted of a "Centre d'Expansion Rurale" (CER) which
enjoyed technical advice and support from staff seconded from the technical ministries and budgetary
resources in the form of a 75% share in revenues derived from the rural poll tax (about CFAF 1,000 per
agent). At the time of appraisal in 1982, these reforms had been implemented in all regions except in
the Senegal Valley and the Eastern Senegal zone.
C. Project Obiectives and De iptin
5.           The principal Project objectives were: (a) to increase production of cotton, the main cash
crop in the area, and cereals grown as rotation crops; (b) to organize farmer groups and help them
assume more responsibility for primary marketing, application for credit and credit recovery, and
investment decisions; (c) to promote the integration of crop and livestock activities, including
consolidation of achievements under the then ongoing Livestock Project; (d) to develop essential rural
inftastructure; and (e) to improve the operational and financial efficiency of SODEFfTEX.
6.           The components of the Project were:
(a)   crop development and processing, including dissemination of agrononiic messages for
cottonlcereals rotation and development of an appropriate technology for broken maize
as a substitute for imported broken rice;
(b)   livestock development, including drug, vaccine and feed distribution, and promotion of
improved animal feeding and animal traction, with two subcomponents: (i) a Southern
zone subcomponent to be carried out by SODEF1TEX and the Livestock Department
(DSPA, Direcdon de la Sante et des Productions Animales), and (ii) a Northern zone
subcomponent to be carried out by PDESO, the executing agency of the IDA-financed
Eastern Senegal Livestock Development Project (Cr. 663-SE).
(c)   applied research program, aimed at complementing the work done by the National
Agricultural Research Project and developing research/extension linkages;



-3 -                                  PART I
(d)   stentening of SODEFITEX, Including improvement of field offices, maintenance
facilities, training of field staff as well as office, ginny and workshop staff, and
monitoring and evauation, and audits;
(e)    assistance to village farmer groups (ABPs) through: (i) functional literacy and numeracy
programs, Ci) crdit fbr collective equipment, and (iii) management advice;
(t)    construction of some 800 km of feeder roads and maintenmce of the whole network;
(g)    village water supply with (i) establishment of 36 tubewells and open wells, and
(ii) rehabilitaion of 89 existing open wells; and
(I)    primary health.
D. Proect Dig and Organlzato
7.           The Project design was based on a master plan for the agricultura development of Eastern
Senegal financed under the IDA-assisted Terres Neuves-I Project (Cr. 578-SE). SODEFTEX, an
autonomous semi-public company, was chosen as the principal executing agency because of its experience
in providing extension services to cotton farmers in Eastern Senegal and its reputation as a well-managed
parastatal (para. 9). Preparafion of a feasibility study was undertaken with a US$400,000 advance from
the Project Preparation Facility approved in February 1980. Concurrendy, the French Fonds d'Ale et
de Cooradon (FAC) financed and carried out, at Government's request, an orgnizational and financial
study of SODEFITEX.
8.           The Project's emaphasis on cotton as the motor of rural development proved too opfimistic.
Questions can be raised about a Project design which focused too much on developing cotton production,
while paying too little attention to strengthening an agriculture cum livestock farming system that includes
maize and groundnuts in the rotation. Too much attention was given to maintaing soil fertility through
crop rotation and fertilization on certain fields adjacent to the villages, while the equilibrium of natural
resources in the whole village area was neglected.
9.           The Credit Agreement provided for SODEFITEX to enter into co-management agreements
with the Instru de Recherche Agronomiue (ISRA) concerning the implementation of the research
component and with DSPA for the animal health component. The implementaton of the Northern
Livestock subcomponent remained with PDESO.
10.          Special attention was paid to the creation and support of the Associatons de Base des
Producteurs (ABPs), the village-level farmers' associations expected to take on responsibilities previously
those of Government agencies. To facilitate the work of the ABPs and to enable them to be self-
managed, functional literacy training was included in the Project.
11.          SODEFITEX was responsible for extension activities, the provision of such inputs as
fertilizers, pesticides, and draft animal mechanization, as well as for agricultural credit. For the livestock
component, SODEFrlEX was responsible for veterinary supply stations, the introduction of on-farm
manure production/collection points, and supplementary fodder production. 'Me feeder road component,
as well as the provision of village water supplies, was to be executed by SODEFITEX. PDESO was



4-4                                  PART I
responsible in its zone for assistance to the pastoral groups, provision of livestock inputs and feed,
supervision of and support to the implementadon of the grazing management plas, and for the general
consolidation of the results achieved under the Livestock Project.
12.          By including marketing and processing, SODEFITEX followed the example of its
predecessor organization, CFDT, in establishing a fiitire*, a complete organization/management!
financing chain, from extension to input supplies, credit, marketing and processing.
E.  Wed fuLaa1mn   and brhil=adnn
13.          Preparaon and Credit Processing: Con cultivadon had been supported by FAC and
FED prior to this Proiect. The Bank, confronted with the difficulties in the Senegalese groundnut basin,
began in 1980 to examine the possibility of diversifying agricultural production away from traditional
groundnut production. Project identification was carried out by the Dakar Office of CCCE in 1979.
Preparation was entusted by CCCE to a French consulting firm in June 1980. Major issues during
project preparation were the apparent advantages of replacing SODEVA by SODEFTEX and giving it
full responsibility for credit operations and the supply of agricultural inputs as well as for the organization
of the ABPs, although those involved were well aware that this expanded responsibility might turn
SODEFIEX into an ungovernable giant. Concern was also expressed about the need to restructure
SODEFlTEX's finances and increase its working capital to improve the functioning of the 7lUre coton'
(para. 12). The preparatory study also recommended the elimination of groundnuts from the proposed
crop rotation. The project was appraised joindy with CCCE from May 17 to June 11, 1982.
14.          Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from May 11 to 13, 1983. The Bank
requested that the producer price of cotton not be reduced in order to recover the cost of fertilizers
supplied to farmers, but instead that the cost of fertilizers be explicitly charged to farmers. This was for
ransparency reasons and in order to make the farmers aware of the cost of fertilizers. The Senegalese
delegation rejected this proposal and the Bank consequently refused to fimance fertlizers. In order to
reconcile the two parties, the Senegalese Government suggested that the US$1.6 million gap in
SODEFTEX's working capital be provided through a SODEFITEX recapitalization, with the company
retaining 30% of pre-tax profits. The Bank agreed with that proposal. Credit effectiveness was planned
for November 3, 1983, but was postponed three times, to October 5, 1984, because of the complex and
lengthy processes required: signature of five grant/credit/loan agreements, passage of a law establishing
ABPs as autonomous entities with capacity to borrow, revision of the agreement between SODEFITEX
and the Caisse de Pdrdquadon et de Stabilisadon des Prix (CPSP), and payment of all government arrears
to SODEFITEX. The problems were compounded by slow follow-up by the Senegalese authorities.
15.          I            got off to a poor start. Adverse weather caused cotton acreage to drop
to 33,300 ha compared with appraisal estimates of 45,000 ha, and average yields reached only 913 kg/ha,
as compared to 1,120 kg in 1982/83 and 1,282 kg in 1981/82. However, SODEFITEX's liquidity was
considered positive at the end of 1984.
16.          During 1985, intenational cotton prices collapsed, causing the losses of the filere coon"
to amount to over CFAF 3 billion in the same year. The feeder road construction and water supply
components progressed on schedule. The livestock component, both in the SODEFITEX zone and the
PDESO zone, proceeded as foreseen at appraisal. By 1986, the Monitoring and Evaluation unit had been
established and the Project Research Unit was staffed.



-5-                                  PART I
17.          By early 1987, supervision missions found implemention of all Projeat components
generally satisfactory. Rural road construction was on schedule, the vfllage water supply component had
been improved by developing a less costy well-digging method relying on increased villagers'
participation. The research unit concentrated on the integration of livestock and cropping activides. Due
to the partial eliminaon of cotton input subsidies, cotton acreage had dropped to 25,500 ha in 1986/87,
with yields of 1,054 kg/ha, somewhat short of the hoped-for 1,200 kg/ha.
18.          SODEFITEX found itself in a precarious financial situation due to the Government's
unwillingness and/or inability to compensate it for losses incurred. Measures were taken to streamine
operations and decrease operating costs. Despite these measures, SODEFITEX expected to continue
showing a deficit until 1990/91, even if Government did finance all SODEFfTEX activities outside the
cotton sector. When subsequent years did not bring a substantial recovery of cotton prices,
SODEFITEX's financial problems were compounded. These problems had a negative impact on Credit
disbursements. However, by mid-1989 the feeder road and building component was completed.
19.          Due to the delays in Credit effectiveness and the slow uptake of cotton production, the
Credit was not fully disbursed at the originally envisaged Closing Date, i.e., June 30, 1989. The Bank
agreed to two extensions of the Closing Date, to June 1991. The Bank also agreed to finance lint
cleaning equipment, additional pesticides to combat locusts and additional road maitenance equipment.
20.          Financial Management and Accounts. The Project was cofinanced by CCCE, FAC, and
the Saudi Development Fund. IDA's contribution amounted to 33% of total costs, CCCE contributed
35%, FAC 8%, the Saudis 7%, and the remaining 17% were the responsibility of the Government and
Project beneficiaries.
21.          Under the Project, an internal audit department was established within SODEFITEX.
Project accounts were audited as stipulated by the Credit Agreement and the results submitted to IDA,
somedmes with some delay.
F. ftb  Results
22.          Physical implementation of Project components went well once the Credit became
effective. The accomplishments of the Project's subcomponents are described below.
23.          Extension Services.  Immediately after Project start-up, SODEFnTEX  assigned
221 extension agents to the Project area. During implementation, only slight changes in the number of
agents occurred. Due to farmers' lower-than-expected interest in cotton production the agent/farmer ratio
increased over the years. Whereas in 1984/85, one agent dealt with 214 farmers (260 ha cotton), this
ratio was reduced to 140 farmers by 1989/90 (221 ha cotton). Over the Project implementation period,
the quality of the extension staff improved significantly, becoming largely competent to extend messages
covering - in addition to agriculture - livestock, agroforestry and natural resources management.
24.          Extension efforts at creating new ABPs were successful: their number increased from 160
in 1984/85 to 492 in 1990/91. lhese ABPs are now in a position to manage cotton marketing and
supervise local credit activities. The assumption of these responsibilities was faclitated by the Project-
sponsored literacy campaign. Although the target of six literates for each of the 720 villages was almost



-6-                                  PART I
reached in quantitative term, oly 2,587 student passed the fial test, i.e., about three graduates per
Project village.
25.          AudIo-Visual exteasion aids proved too difricult to handle in the field. To compemate
for these extension aivities, SODETEX had regular broadcasts on the rural radio station.
26.          Based on the ageement between SODEFfTEX Nd ISRA, the latter institution undertook
an apPlied research program fcussing mainly on cotton. Research topics included cotton varieties with
high ginning prcenges, production of elite seeds, weed control measures, fertilizer dosages, etc. Other
research program  dealt with cereal adoption trials, draft animal equipment and orgnc manure trials.
The results of this well-focused research were satisfactory.
27.          'he MonitoriDg and Evalution (M&E) Unit initiated a detailed survey of six villages,
anrayzing, inter alia, time spent on various farming activities, production costs and fam budgets. In
addition, the M&E unit succeeded in establishing a relatively broad-based statistical information system
for SODEFTIEX.
28.   In       Mj                X* Achnald Agclpp Credit. The Project was expected
to finance incremena  inputs but, due to the actua reduction of cotton cultivation, only the 1984185
season saw an increase in ferlizer/pesticide use, while sales of these inputs declined in subsequent years.
Equally disappointing were the sales of agricultural equipment, with the exception of ox-cas of which
4,900 were sold (the appraisal esfimate was 5,000). However, it should be noted that SODEFIrEX had
already sold considerable quantities of plows, seeders, and cultivators shortly before Project start-up.
29.          During Project implementation, SODEiTEX increased its agricultura credit activities
despite the lack of farmer inteest in coton production. Total SODEFITEX lending amounted to CFAF
210 million (about US$l million) in 1983184 and peaked at CFAF 1,071 million in 1988/89, and then
-"ing to CFAF 947 million in 1989190. Repayment of credits stood at a mere 78% in 1983J84 and 84%
in 1984/85, but recovered during Project implementationto an average of 95% during the last three years
of the Project.
30.          Livestock Development under the Project in the South started in May 1985 when
SODEFfEX in cooperation with DSPA startd a vaccination campaign agaist Rioderpest and bovine
peripneumonia. In the course of Project implemenaion, SODEFITEX trained 100 veterinary assistants
and established veterinary supply stations with some ABPs. Special attention was paid to improving
animal nutrition, especially for drat oxen, by supplying concentrates (cotton seed) to farmers. Efforts
directed at supplementary feeding of viamins and minerals and silage making were less successful. In
the North, PDESO continued operations begun under the first Eastern Senegal Livestock Project,
including of supo to herder associations, literacy training, pasure management, veterinary support,
water and soil consumption and livestock extension.
31.          Ee   RQads. Project appraisal provided for the construction of 800 km feeder roads.
During Project imWAementation, the construction program was revised and 787.3 km new roads
constucted as well as 138.1 km rehabilitated. These feeder roads permit not only the evacuation of
cotton and other agricultural produce, but have also in many insances established links between villages
and.the outside world. Still unresolved, however, is the maintenance issue. Periodic heavy mainenance
was to be executed by the Government's Public Works Service. However, as of this writing Public
Works are still refusing to assume this responsibility.



-7-                                  PART I
32.          Vla  WM  Spies. This component catered to the most urgent needs of the rural
population. With the help of French volunteers, a total of 134 water facDlities were either constructed
or improved, more than 100% above the appraisal estimate of 60 facilities. Local interest was
demonstrated by the villagerse financial, as well as manual, contributions to well construction.
33.         Indusdal investments included lint cleaning facilities at three ginneries which contributed
to quality improvement of Senegalese cotton. As a result of this investment, Senegalese cotton is now
of the highest quality among the 10 francophone cotton-producing countries in West Africa. Construction
of two seed cotton silos of 400  3, and of two storage facilities for cotton bales (1,200 m and 900 n3,
will facilitate more continuous operation of the ginning facilities. The installation of fire fighting/control
mechanisms responds to demands by insurance companies and thus will lower insurance premiums.
34.          SODEFITEX's infrastructure was improved by the construction of office buildings,
storage facilities, housing, etc., by the provision of radio and telephone equipment, office equipment, etc.
35.          IPbi:c Health component was modest. A total of 23 health posts were either to be
renovated or constructed under the Project. This target was exceeded by the renovation of 31 health
posts, the construction of 5 pharmaceutical depots and one building for nutritional education at
Tambacounda.
36.          Ee  of RetuM. Due to the dramatic shortfall of the cotton production and the
collapse of cotton prices, the economic rate of return of the Project is negative. The relatively low
producer price fixed by the Goverment caused cotton to be increasingly viewed as an unatractive crop
by farmers. Labor input for cotton is about double that of groundnuts or maize. Only with a yield of
1,200 kg/ha would cotton surpass the return per labor day of groundnuts, assuming continued fertilizer
subsidies. Without subsidies but stiUl with the high yield of 1,200 kg/ha, return per labor day would be
about 8% below that of groundnuts.
37.          The unfavorable position of cotton, combined with rainll fluctations, led to irregular
cotton production. While cotton acreage stood at 46,300 ha in 1984, prior to the Project, it reached its
lowest point in 1989/90, with only 24,200 ha. Average per hectare yields ranged from 719 kg/ha in 1985
to 1,344 kg/ha in 1987. Total seed cotton production declined from 46,900 t in 1984 to 29,300 t in
1990. Production did, however, rebound to 44,900 t in 1991.
38.          Millet/sorghum production also fell short of expectations. Estimates had put the acreage
under these two crops at 31,040 ha and per hectare yields at 1,100 kg for the year 1989/90, but only
27,186 ha (88 % of estimated acreage) and 1,000 kg/ha (91 % of appraisal estimate) were accomplished.
39.          Only maize production exceeded expectations. The 1989/90 maize acreage was 14,237
ha, surpassing the estimated area of 13,000 ha, and yields of 2,250 kg/ha were above appraisal estimates
(2,106 kg/ha). The return per labor day also explains the success of maize under the Project. With yields
of 2,500 kg/ha attained by Project farmers, reurns per day worked were more than three times the
returns on cotton.
40.          Pinancial results of the 71lkMre coton" and SODEFITEX, the implementing agency, are
equally disappointing. Following the cotton crisis of 1985/86, SODEFITEX, despite valiant efforts to
reduce its operating costs, did not turn a profit. In addition to suffering from low world maket prices
for cotton, SODEFfTEX was not reimbursed for non-cotton activities that were the responsibility of the



- 8 -                                PART I
Government. The CPSP arreas amounted to CFAF 4,8 billion and caused SODEFrTEX to accumulate
bank debts amounting to CFAF 8,5 billion by 1990.
G. Poet Stsnabil
41.          A project with its main focus on cotton production does not appear to be sustainable at
the present time. Other crops, such as maize and groundnuts, offer better returns, from the farmers'
standpoint. However, should cotton prices improve and groundnut prices decrease, cotton may still have
a futue in Senegl's agrictdur economy. Cotton's future could be enhanced by further study of yield-
increasing agronomic practices reJying less on chemical, and more on organic, fertilizers.
42.          One of the Project's major accomplishments was to support the *,reation of ABPs and
herder associations which will continue to function, relieving the Government from various tasks and
contributing to greater self-reliance on the part of farmers.
43.          The still-unresolved issue of road maiance is still a major concern. However, the
CCCE seems prepared to support a follow-up project that would help the Government and SODEFITEX
to finance this maintenance.
H. Bank Peformance
44.          The Bank correctly identified the need to diversify the groundnut-oriented Senegalese
economy. Cotton, at the time of Project identification, preparation and appraisal, seemed the most
promising alternative to groundnuts, especially in the light of other successfil rural development projects
in the Sahel where, under similar ecological conditions, cotton cultivation had become the motor of
development.
45.          What the Pmnk could not foresee up to the time of appraisal was the collapse of the
intenational cotton market, which practically halved cotton prices within a short period. With hindsight,
it can be said that the Project should have been reoriented from cotton to maize, but hopes still existed
then that cotton prices would recover.
46.          During the first three years of Project implementation, Bank supervision was done most
often by a financial analyst and an agronomist, usually jointly with CCCE and a representative of FAC.
In the later years, however, Bank supervision concentrated more heavily on the Project's financial aspects
and on the deteriorating financial situation of the 'flUre coton* and consequendy of SODEFITEX.
Supervision of the agricultural aspects of the Project was left to the CCCE, as it was felt at CCCE, with
its permanent agricultral staff in Senegal, was better placed to supervise those aspects. The Bank was
regularly informed by CCCE of the results of its supervision.
I. Borrower Performanoe
47.          SODEFrIX performance was good under the circumstances.   Due to Senegal's
budgetary difficulties, the expected budgetary support of SODEFfTEX through CPSP was not



-9-                                   PART I
forthcoming. PDESO's performance was also satisfactory in implementing the Northem Livestock
subcomponent.
48.          Reporting requirements were met, albeit with considerable delay: accounts were kept in
an orderly manner; auditing of the accounts was undertaken by independent auditors and the results of
the audits were submitted to the Bank; and procurement of lIDA-financed goods and services was done
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
J.   I    iemd
49.          First, ERRs should not be considered the only measurement of project success or failure.
In spite of the overall negative ERR, which is atrbutable solely to the project's cotton results, a
substantial number of project components were successful: (a) substantial increase in maize production;
(b) integration of agriculture and livestock; (c) creation of self-managed farmer/herder associations and
literacy training; (d) village water supply; (e) primary health infaucture; and (f) rural road
construction.
50.          Second, probable farmer atiudes regarding their favored farminglcrop rotation systems
should be examined closely during Project preparation and appraisal. Under this Project, development
of cotton suffered from competition with groundnuts. Although retu   from cotton per hectare would
have been slightly greater than those from groundnuts, the farmers' calculations seem to have centered
on returns per labor day input. lhls should come as no surprise, considering the amounts of land and
family labor available. Maize production was successfil because of the high return per labor day input.
There are good prospects for further developing this crop in the Project area, although expanded
production would require efforts towards improved research, extension, and marketing.
51.          Third, inWgration of livestock into agricultural activities can yield important synergies
and progress. The Project demonstaed the wisdom of on-farm organic manure production and the
beneficial effect of this manure on crop yields. It also pointed up the need to include measures to
improved soil conservation and soil fertility in crop development projects.
52.          Fourth, establishment and support of farmer groups (the ABPs in this case) demonstrated
that several functions usually handled by the Government, such as input procurement, credit
administration, extension, marketing, maintenance of village water supplies, etc., could be successfully
transferred to such farmer groups. The successful operation of these groups, however, requires that they
have some literate members.
53.           The Project-supported literacy campaign was highly successful, and indications are that
the smooth functioning of farmer groups increases with the number of literate members. The main
factors explaining the success of the Project in this difficult area seem to be: (a) farmers' strong desire
to be equipped to deal with the outside world; (b) the fact that farmers must invest time and money in
their literacy training; (c) the competence and motivation of the extension agents who perform the literacy
training; and (d) the fact that producer groups that have enough literate people are encouraged by
SODEFITEX to take on economic activities for which they are remunerated. Similar groups are coming
into being in many parts of Senegal as part of the Government's policy to encourage the emergence of
producer groups.



- 10 -     -              '          PART
PART 11 -  Ba RM    B°S Ct
A.  m     K9M
54.          At the begining of PDRSO I, the World Bank carried out rgular chnical suprvsion
missions in oopation with CCCE. pTh   joint missions ceased balfway through the Project, afer
which the Bank performed only finanial monitong. There was no techncal evaluation mission owce
ttie Project wah completed. It is unfortunate that the Bank neglected the Project this way because,
althoug the cotton output targets were not achieved, these activies helped promote a real development
proces in Easter Senegal.
55.          The Project was implemented at a time when there was a world cotton crisis. Prices
collapsed, and the management of the cotton subsectr in African countries, and particularly in Senegal,
had to be drastically revised. This resulted in a policy of fieezing purchase prices for seed coton and
totally or partially elimiat  subsidies on agricultura inputs. When these policies were applied, the
elects on cotton producers were extremely unfavorable.
56.          Ihe main objectives of PDRSO can be summarized as follows: (1) dwblv=    g
igdiculual  ucthn:   (a) increased cotton and cereals ouput through rotation crpping;
(b) strengtening of extension and support mechanisms for ABPs; (c) support for the orgaizaton and
trasfer of responsibilities to producers; (d) itegration of agriculture and livestock, particularly tough
development of the use of animal traction;(e) support for applied agricultural reseach and
monitoringleuation; (M support for blacksmiths in rural areas, as part of the promotion of animl
ractlon (2) improvement in hman and animlh bealth; (3) im§nMXUM  of nruiufr uctu  (watW
supply and feeder toads).
57.          The Project achieved the following results:
Devl&MOMM of Agdiuxal roueo
*     lncreas  in cotton and  eal output proued through
rotatien Cropping; st  th        of extension and support
ncisnis for ARNI
58.          The Project's objective was to increase Senega's coton oulput to 66,700 t (from
58,000 ha) from its 1984/85 level of 46,900 t (46,300 ha). By the end of the PDRSO (the 1990/91 crop
year), cotton output was 44,900 t obtained from 43,341 ha, a slight drop in producion (4%) Instead of
the anticipated increase (42%).



- II-PART II
Table I
____________J               Area        Jild                         output
1984/85                  46,300                1.012               46,900
1985/86                  38,800                0.719               27,900
1986/87                  25,500                1.054               26,900
1987/88                  28,900                1.344               38,800
1988/89                  38,600                1.003               38,700
1989/90                  24,200                1.211               29,300
1990/9      _            43,300                1.032               44,900       l
Project Objectives        58,000               1.150                66,70
59.          Looking beyond these figures, we should remember that the economic enviromnent for
the Project was certainly affected by a series of upheavals that had not been foreseen during Project
preparation and which affected the production targets:
(a)   The prices charged for agricultural inputs during the 1986/87 crop year (and for which
there was no corresponding increase in the producer purchase price for seed cotton)
caused cotton production to be abandoned by about 50 villages and 30,000 farmers.
The resumption of cotton production -by these farmers was encouraged by the results
ac.hieved in 1987/88 (with a yield of 1.344 tlha), but the fall in the world price of cotton
fiber meant that the impact of input costs on producer income was not mitigated.
(b)   The sudden doubling of the cost of insecticides to producers (from CFAF 400 to
CFAF 800 per liter, the consequence of a further cut in input subsidies in 1989/90) once
caused another 18,000 farmers to give up cotton production. However, most of these
retned to cotton production in 1990/91. In addition, weather conditions disrupted
production in 1985/86, 1988/89 and 1990/91, when rainfal was very poor, a hazard
normally faced by agriculture.
(c)    Trends in the relative prices of groundnuts and cotton did not favor cotton production.
It should be recalled that a special feature of the cotton-producing areas of Senegal is
that, unlike such areas in other African countries, they also produce another cash crop
(groundauts), and this competes with cotton. The result was a subsuntial increase in
groundmnt ptoduction in cotton-producing areas. In the SODEFfTEX area, groundmnt
output is approximately three times that of cotton. The frmers' economic preferences
between the two crops are mainly detemnnined by the comparative prices of seed cotton
and groundmz for oil production (even though groundnuts are also a food -crop and the
haulms can be sold at a good price).



-12 -                                PA RT n1
1*1.2: COMPARS  O SEE COTTON AND GROUNDNUTS
Seed cotto              Groundwuts (in shell)       Ratio
Year                                   _                             (cotton
Ptoducw      Not Price      Producer      Net Price    groundmuts)
Price         fess          Price       (less value
l_______                    nwput Cos)                    of hauims)   __l
1980           60            60            90            46           1.30
1981           68            68            70            60           1.13
1982           70            70            80            60           1.16
1983           70            70            70            SO           1.40
1984           70            70            80            60           1.16
1985          100           100            90            70           1.42
1986          100            80            90            90           0.88
1987          100            83            90            90           0.92
1988          100            77            90            90           0.85
1989          100            79            70            70           1.12
1990          100            64            70            70           0.91
60.          As regards cereals, maize production exceeded Project objectives (35,800 t in 1990 from
17,468 ha in the Project area), whereas millet and sorghum output fell slightly short of their targets
(28,687 t in 1990 from 30,800 ha).
61.          The main obstacle to the Intensification of cereal production is the lack of a stable and
properly organized 7ilitre (subsector) to provide for marketing and input supply. Over the final two
years of the Project, SODEFTEmX - in cooperaion with the ABPs - undertook to establish marketing
dcannels to link a number of the parties concened (i.e., bank, producers, traders and industrial
operators).
62.          Aldtough at Project st-up the strengthening of extension and support for ABPs was
regarded as a mater of increasing the number of staff in proportion to the expected increase in the area
devoted to cotton production, it was the quality of the services that was improved, in accordance with
the need to reduce costs in the subsector. Consequendy, the methodology, organation and technical



-13 -                                         PART II
expertise of the extension personnel were profoundly changed so that they would match the structures of
nur  conununities and the methods used by the farmers. Field staff was reduced, and a plan for selecting
and training the best extension agents was implemented (including training in the Ziguinchor school for
technical staff). Once the plan was completed, the former extension agents (wdgariateurs de Ase) who
had been made field staff (agents de terrain) became advisors to the ABPs.
63.             'he 1984/85 figure of 403 outreach agents [agents de basel (326 extension workers
(en adreursj + 77 area chiefs [chefs de zoe)) was reduced in 1990191 to 227 (107 extension agents
[vulgaristeurs de base] + 120 advisors to ABPs [conseillers]). Over the same period, the area of cotton
producing land per agent increased from I 15 ha to 191 ha.
64.             Over the same period, there was a reduction from 34 to 26 in the number of regional
managers [cadres reglonawjx (ie., sector chiefs [chefs de secteursi and assiss, regional officers
fresponsables r6gionaux] and assistants, and regional instructos fornateurs rMglonauxI).
Table3: EXTENSION SERVICES: STAFFING DENSITY
Area of                  Outreach Agents                  A    of    Regiak       Ae of
Cropn t                                                              Cotton/    Manes    Couon
Year     Production   Extension    Arem                               Age                   Regional
______ ._____ .Agent                 Chiefs     Advisors     ToWt                              Manage
1971172     18,318      230                                 230         80          24          763
1972/73    20,859       248                                 248         82          32          636
1973174    28,630       255                                 255         112         37          774
1974/75    385,88       268                                 268         144         33        1,169
1975176    37,483       298                                 298         126         38          986
1976177    43,845       311                                 311        141          38        1,154
1977/78    47,109       388                                 388         121         43        1,096
1978179    48,299       407                                 407         119         43        1,123
1979/80    30,908       335          69                     404         77          31          909
1980/81    29,913       286          69                     355         84          31          880
1981/82    31,977       305          69                     374         86          31          941
1982/83    42,018       338          73                     405         104         31        1,236
1983/84    33,353       336          81                     417         80          35          953
1984/85    46,337       326          77                     403         115         31        1,368
1985/86    38,849       312          75                     387         100         33        1,079
1986/87    25,482       289          71                     360         71          27          879
1987/88    28,878       253                      61         314         92          26        1,111
1988/89    38,558       244                      67         311         124         26        1,489
1989190    24,183       218           6          84         308         79          26          930
1990/91    43.341        107                    120         227         191         26        1,667



-14-                                 PART I}
*     Support for the organization and tnsfer of responsibilities
to producers
65.         Fte number of ABP ls (i.e., the self-managed ABPs) increased from 160 in 1984/85 to
492 in 1990/91.
66.          At the end of the 1990/91 crop year, 5,271 farmers had received literacy training and
been tested at the end of the process. Compared with the Project target of 4,320, this is a performance
rate of 122%. However, only 3,459 passed their final tests (i.e., 80% of the qualitative objective).
*     The Integration of Agriculture and Uvestock
67.          Two thousand pairs of oxen were prepared, 106 livestock assistants were trained, and
many village-level veterinary pharmacies were established and equipped. Food for draft animals and
cows with calves was improved by the large-scale distribution of cotton seed to be used as catde feed.
68.          The major success in this area, however, was the development of aNblesfiuniRres and
6curies fiupnres (on-farm manure productionlcollection), which had not been provided for at Project
start-up. These innovations made it possible to produce manure for maintning soil fertility, improve
the performance of draft animals, and increase milk output. There was also a dinite improvement in
catte health coverage, although the services performed by the Livestock Service were not always
satisfacry.
*     Support for Applied  Agrieulual Research  and  the
Establishment of a Monitoring & Evaluaion Unit
69.          Support for the cotton program from ISRA (entomology, improved varieties and
agronomy, etc.), which also contributed to the production of cereal crops in rotation with cotton,
improved the links between research on cotton and SODERTEX' production objectives.
70.          A research/development unit was established as a link between applied research and the
extension services. After some problems concerning its proper orientation, it has now reached its normal
level of operation, undertacing preliminary extension work and the preparation of innovations.
71.          A Monitoring & Evaluation Unit is now fully operational, underang ongoing surveys,
ad hoc studies to support decision-making, monographs, etc.
*     Support for Blacksmiths in Rural Areas, as Part of the
Promotion of Animal Traion
72.          Through the implementation of a training policy for blacksmiths in rural areas, modem
forging techniques were taught to 378 rural craftsman, who were also provided with equipment.
However, the problem of the profitability of these fbrges has yet to be addressed, because those already
in operation are unprofitable despite the support provided.



-  15t -                              PART 11
73.          Literacy campaigns and management training for rural blacksmiths - together with the
supply materials (whicb began at the end of the Project) - should provide the means for developing this
activity.
ImDrvment in Hunian EL
74.          The Project included implementation of a primary health care program at v}llage level
in the Tambacounda region. CFAF 345 million was to be used to equip 23 health posts in the rural
communities, constuct three storage facilities for medication, and help fund the activities of the
Association Fracaise des Volonires du Progres (AFVP).
75.          Forty-three health posts were rehabilitated, five medication storage facilities were
constructed, and two rehabilitated. AFVP, which implemented this aspec of the Project, focused on
monitoring the health posts and providing health training for the communities and the paramedic
personnel.
76.          The program was hampered by poor management of the health facilities, a consequence
of operating this component independentky and not coordinating it with SODEFITEX' literacy and
manement training activities.
hIUMDrvent 1 SU  1f= =ture
3     MVllage Water Supply
Table 4
.__________ _  Plann_       Complted         In Progress
New Wells                              20                76                11
Deepening of Existing Wells            94                49                 9
Forges                                 16                16
Total                                  60                134                2
Surface Works                          65                121               20
77.          This component, which was very important because it responded to intense demand from
farmers, was a total success and considerably exceeded its objectives because of the reduced unit cost of
works.
*     Feeder Roads
78.          Nine hundred eighty-five kilometers of feeder roads were constructed, compared with the
planned 800 km. They have provided communications with the previously isolated cotton-producing area,



-16 -                                 PART 1
and mitigated SODEFITEX' stock problems. Agricultural goods (particularly cotton and groundnuts) can
now be properly shipped, and the standard of living of the communities can be improved.
79.          Overall, PDRSO did not achieve its cotton production objectives because of an
unfavorable macroeconomic environment that was unforeseen when the Project was designed (e.g., crisis
in the cotton subsector, competition from groundnuts, etc.).
80.          Nevertheless, the ProJect did adapt to changes in economic circumstances, and pointed
the way out of the crisis, makig it possible over the medium term to establish equilibrium in the
subsector through an increase in agricultural output. Cereal output has been increased very considerably.
'Mere have also been successes with regard to the structure and transfer of responsibilities to rural
communities (through literacy campaigns, increases in the number of ABP Us, etc.).
81.          Simiarly, the policy of integrating agriculture and livestock exceeded its objectives
(through the development of on-farm manure production/collection, and improved folds).
82.          There has been a considerable qualitative change in the extension personnel, and its
activities have been diversified into livestock, truck farming, agroforestry, etc.
83.          There have been definite improvements in the rural infrastructure.
84.          These successes must be consolidated by establishing an improved and truly balanced
cotton subsector. Negotiations for the improvement of the cotton subsector are currenty taking place as
part of the preparation of the third GovernmentISODEFlTEX terms of reference, while the general
development activities undertaken under PDRSO I will be continued and consolidated as part of PDRSO
II. We regret that the Bank is not participating in the latter.
C. Pefmanae of Cofimandug Partners
85.          CCCE monitored both the technical and financial aspects of PDRSO I regularly and in
a spirit of genuine consultation with the executing agency SODEFITEX, so that activities could be
adjusted to meet the needs of the Project as it progressed. For this reason, although there was a
comparative failure in what was originally the main objectve (increasing cotton output), the Project must
be considered a success both as regards the quality of activities and the results achieved in overall
eevelopment Oiteracy, farmers' associations, management training, the integration of agriculture and
livestock, water supply and agricultural infrastructure, and extension methodology) and also in the area
of cotton production, since the relationships between the producers and SODEFITEX were considerably
improved by the experience of facing the cotton crisis together from 1984/85 to 1989/90. Because of this
new relationship, a very large increase in cotton output can be anticipated over the coming three or four
years, and should reach the level anticipated in the Project objectives.
c:Adod\ewcp4O6   .-



-1-7-                               PART III
PART m - SrATJ[CAL . JRN
1. Rd"Ak Loans and/or Credits
Credit NumbeWride                    Purpose                  Year of    Status
Approval           l
Cr. 991                    Channeling funds to small groups of   03/111/80   Closed
Small Rural Operations     rural producers                                          11
Cr. 1103                   Establishment and management of       02110/81    Closed
Foresry                    rainfed tree plantations
Cr. 1176                   Strengthening of agricult   research  09/08/81    Closed
Agriculural Research       capabilityh
Cr. 1632                   Help SAED disengage from agricultural   10I29185   Closed
rigation Techn. Assistance   production-related activities
Cr. 1855                   Improvement of performance and        12/01/87   06/30/94
irrigation IV                ntenance of existig perimeters
Cr. 1992                   Foster productive small-scale investments  03/21/89   06/30/98
Small Rural Operations II    in the rural sector
Cr. 2107                   Generation of low risk technology for  03/22190   12/31/95
Agricultural kesearch 11   improvmg farmers and herders incomes          _
Cr. 2108                   Increase farmers and pastoralists incomes  03/22/90   12/31/94
Agricultural Sevices       and improve the lot of rura women
2. Prgect Timetabl
Phase                    Original Date       |        Acual Date
l_______________                    (MM/DD/YY)            ___
Preparation                         0310o579                     03/05/79
Appraisa                            05/17/82                     05/17182
Negotiations                        05/10/83                     05/10/83
Approval                            0502/83                     05/02/83
Signature                           08/10/83                     08/10/83
Effectiveness                        11/03/83                    10/05/84
Project Completion                   12/31/88                    06/30/91
Credit Closing                      06/30/89                     06/30/91



- 18 -                             PART m
3. CL Ds ement
(i milions of SDR)
Category              Original Allocation     Actual Disbursments
-USP TAMA                  1 |                                 (14,832)
(1) Civil Works (Feeder Roads)      2,520,000                4,047,843
(2) Civil Works (Other)             1,440,000                2,233,622
(3) Agricultural Equipment          1,130,000                  606,691   -
(4) Equipment (B)                    790,000                   141,114
(5) Equipment (C)                    750,000                 1,004,726
(6) Equipment (A)                    840,000                  648,023
(7) Pesticides                      1,280,000                1,619,266
(8) Consultants, Audit               480,000                   106,044
(9) Operating Costs, Training       2,720,000                2,576,498
(10) Consultants, Auditors
CWil Works, Equipment             330,000                  170,503
(PDESO)
(11) Livestock Inputs (PDESO)         40,000                    11,213
(12) Operating Costs (PDESO)         770,000                 1,374,288
(13) Deposit Special Account          90,000        _ __ _            _    __
(14) PPF                             370,000                  374,999
(15) Unallocated                    1,350,000
TOTAL                    14,900,000               14,900,000



-19-                             PART m
4. ptgoj lmpementation
A. Coton Producion
_______I, Appraisal Fstimates               Actual
Area (ha)    Production MI)   Area (ha)  j  Production
1982183       44,000          44,000         42,000         47,100
1983184       45,200         45,200          33,400         30,500
1984/85       48,650          51,083         46,300         46,90
1985186       51,850         57,035          38,800         27,900
1986/87       55,050          63,308         25,500         26,900
1987/88       58,250          66,988         28,900         38,800
1988/89/1       n.a            n.a           38,600         38,700
1989/90/1       n.a            n.a           24,200         29,300
1990/91/i1      n.a            n.a           43,300         44,900
.'1 No projection for these years were made at appraisal.
B. MaizePrduction
Appraisl Estimates                 Actual
Area (h)    Produion M        Area (ha)     Production
1982/83        9,800          17,680          n.a            n.a
1983184        9,800          18,180          n.a            n.a
1984/85        10,500         19,990         9,420           n.a
1985/86        11,300        22,160          13,111          n.a
1986/87        12,100         24,560         11,159           n.a
1987/88        13,000        27,380          9,430           n.a
1988/89         n.a            n.a           16,220         39,690
1989/90         n.a            n.a           14,237         32,033



-20-                               PART m
C. eede Red Consicoa
A,naSal Ligmate                cu
800 km                     925 km
D. Villafe Water Suply
New Shallow Wells           20                         76
Rehabilaion of Exist.       24                         49
Deep TubeweSX
Total                       60                        134



PART m
5. Project Costs md FinanCEDie
A.    &Wed Castst'
(in millions of CFA Francs)
._______________________        Appraisal   stimates          Actual
1. Civil Works (Roads)                         2,738                  4,006
2. Civil Works (Ote)                           1,017                  2,134
3. Equipment, Vehicles                         3,060                  1,759
4. Imports                                      889                     886
5. ConSultants, Audit, Studies                  919                     692
6. Operating Cost, Traning                     2,284                  2,584
7. Increase in SODEFIMEX Working
capita                                     1,021                   1,060
8. Northern Livestock                          1,031                    595
9. Contingencies                              3,831          _
10. PPF Refinancing                             142                     143
TOTAL                      16,932                  13,859
/i   The actu  project cost is based on actual IDA disbursements in SDRs exchanged in CFAF at
appraisal parity, actual disbursements of CCCE and Saudi Fund and appraisal estimates of FAC
disbursments, government financing and beneficiaries contributions.
B.  rrMieqteInancinJ-
Cn millions of CFA Francs)
Appraisal Estimates          Actual
IDA                                          16.1                   16.1
CCCE                                        16.7                    17.0_
FAC                                           I.8'!                  1.6
SDF                                          3.2                     2.7
Beneficiaries                                4.5                     0.3'
Government                                   6.6                     3.6td
TOTAL                       45.9                    413'
Ia; US$ICFAFISDR exchange rate of SAR is being applied wherever appropriate.
/A   PDESO financing esdmated at appraisal cost
1    FAC contribution managed by the Project.
14   Estimates.
II   The amounts shown would be some 20% higher if present US$/CFAF exchange rate is applied
(US$49.5 million).



-.22 -                              PART 111
6.  ect RnIU
A.
aThe number of farmer groups (ABPs, Associations de base des producteurs) increased
as follows:
I1982/83  I_1983/84 __1984/85 __1985186           1986187___1987188_   198 J8
85    1      _84        161    I    191   1    235 1    276             36  -
B.    Economic inDac
To determine the ERR of the Project is difficult, if not impossible, because of:
-    the large number of heterogenous project components,
-    the uncerties conceming future cotton/cereal production,
-    the poor quality of data.
However, the tangible results were:
-    Cotton:             Decrease (mstead of increase) in cotton production
-    Millet/Sorghum:     Decrease (instead of increase) in millet/sorghum production
-    Maize:              Increase of about 2,500 tons/year, but this increase does not
render the ERR positive, given the relatively modest importance
of this crop.
Given the above, the Project ERR is considered negative.



-23 -                              PART III
C.    _im al a
During the Project, effective implementation period, the results of Senegal cotton
operation (7JJkire coton) were as follows:
|_______                     (in millions of CFA Francs)              _
1984/85    1985/86          1986/87   [   1987188       1988/89 9     1989/90
+3,100   1 4,387            -2,767        - 1,04        -1,214         -526
The reasons for the huge losses of the operation (since 1985/86) were the following:
collapse of the world market cotton price;
-    rigid producer price of seed cotton: higher than in neighboring Mali;
-    deteriorating US$/CFAF exchange rate;
-    overcapacity of SODEFlTEX processing mills as compared to production.
SODEFITEX cotton fiber cost price over the period remained higher than in most of the
neighboring countries and was calculated by SODEF1TEX as follows:
(in miilions of CFA Francs)                           l
1984/85       1985/86       1986/87   [   1987/88   J   1988/89   j   1989/90
522           784     j    697      [    620            601           585     I



-24 -                                      PART m
7. &"of              n
A.    IopmLEt it                      u
Cedt Aateemat           Britt Descripts of C1veuft          Complince'            Remnls
section
3.01(a)       Borrower, thrugh PDESO, to cary out
Projet with du diligece & efficiciency      Y
3.01(b)       Borowtr to causeSODEPRiTX to perform in
accordanceWith Proec AgreeMtproviions       Y
3.01(c)       Borrwer shall maw pat of the proceds of
the Crdit allocated to Categories 1, 2, 3, 4,
6, 7, S. d 9 avaisble to SODEFtlX as a      Y
gmut
3.01(d)       Boarwer hall rend proceeds allocated to
Category  S  to  SODFPITEX  under a         Y
subsidiay Loan Ageemen               __        .-
.|  3.01(e)  | Baorwer shal not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Low Agrement           Y
3.01(fl       Borrower shall take alt necessary measures to
make an equity contiution to SODEFITEX,     Y
which shall not be less than
CFAF 1,100,000,000.
(i) Not Iater than Apri 30, 1984, Borrower
shaU mak available to SODERMEX not       Y
ess than CFAFS50,000,000,
(C) Ensum the avaiabity to SODEPTllX of
an amount not less than
CPAP 550,000,000 through the atention    Y
by SODEPIT's PY 1982-83, of 30%
of any proSts before tx  pursuant to the
arsrngement  elerred to in Section
6.01(c)(u) of this Ageemnt
3.02          Bonrwer to maintain PDESO as s unit wihin
DSPA                                        Y
3.03          Borower to perform its obligations under
6.01(d) of DCA and to cause ITA and ISRA
to  perform  their  obligptions  under      Y
Section 2.01(bXi) std (u) of PA
3.04          Borrower to employ consula, speialists
and auditors satifatory to IDA              Y
3.05(a)   -    nsace of goods                              Y
3.05(b)       Exclusive use of projmc-procured goods for
I~~~Pr            j c                     _                         _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _   _
3.06(a)       PMvie to IDA all documentation pertining
to procuremnat                              Y
3.Q v;       Maintenanc of prper records of Project
progress                                    Y
3.06(c)       IDA may publis decription following award
of any contsat                              Y



-25-                                         PART m
Credt Ag      lent       Brik  Daptio of Coants                                      Rema
.l  I                                                     -I_...I___- .... .    ...:,.
3.06(d)       Borower to finruh to IDA a haf-uyealy                   PDBSO did not provido regutar
P_s_N   progtess  port                        N        prgU reports
3.06(_)       PCR Pt. U)                                     P        SODERF     prepared Par 11
but not PDESO
3.07          Acqusion of band righ  necesary               Y
3.08          Appropriate Uanspu..An to field staff          Y
4.01          Mai nea     of Project accounts &  SOE                  All audit repotswere submhted
records, acd annual audits                    Y        but the  two  kast oues of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _SO D E PITE
4.02          Appoval of IDA rgadin  any action to
ymodif share capital of SODEPM!X              Y
4.03          SODMPMl=Xshallbeeqiredtoadvancoany  .                   CPSP failed in thi later Poject
subsidytoCPSP                                 N        years  to   compensate
SODERITEX for losses due to
low wor  mare cotton prices
4.04          Borower shall not etust any additinal
activity to SODEFITEX                         Y
4.05          Bonrowet to ensur that all livestock inputs
arc at reasonable prices eceding cost         Y
4.06          Borrower shall proide latacy specalist to
assist SODEFITEX
Credit Ageeent           Brief Deipn of Covenants            Cmplioan               Remarks
2.01(a)       SODEFITEX  shall cary  out Parts  A            Y
thro  LI as per Schodue 2 to DCA with
due diligence and efficiency            _ _
2.01(b)       SODEF8IEX shall, not ltw than Matrh 31,
1984, aetr ino  the  foDl. agremen
satisfictory to IDA to assist SODEFITEX In
canying out repectiw parts of thc Proe
Oi an agematwithl rTA in rpect of Part        Y
C.1 of the Projec, and
(ii) an agrment with ISRA in respect of       Y
Part H.l of the Pwrct
2.02         (a) InordertoasistkSODEPl  in canying
out Par A.4, A.S and D of the Poject,
onsulat  and  speils   shall be           Y
employed, satidactory to IDA, In
accordance with World Bank Guideli
for the Use of Consutats
(b) SODEFITEX shall aeure that al other       Y
consultants are employed on the basis of
TORB satisaory to IDA



-26-                                        PART HI
Credit Agremt            Rl Detipef  of Coveats   | COgaae                          Remaks
Secdn__                                     _                                     _
2.03         Procuemnont oi goods & civil wowi Sh  be      Y
. ___________  goveraned by Schedule S to DCA
2.04(a)       SODEPFUEX  udetake  to  isur  the
inmpodted goods to be  naoced out of the
Credit and for such insuance any indemnity    y
shll be payable in a cumny freely usable by
SODEPrIEX to replace or repair sucb goods
2.04(b)       SODEFrrEX shall cause all goods & sevices
financed out of the Credit to be used         Y
exclusively for the purposes of the Project            _  ____  _
2.05(a)       SODMPIEX shall umish to IDA adequat            Y
materials & documents for Pas A thru
l._ at ID As iequest                                  .
2.05(b)       SODEPIBEX shall:
Ca)  maintain  rcords &  procedures to        Y
identify goods & servies financed out of
the Credit;
Cu) enable IA to visit sites aof the Project  Y
and to exammw goods financed out of the
Patce &  any rlvant rwrds and
documents; and
(iii) fumnsh to IDA any information, at IDA's  Y
request, concrning Parts A through 1.1.
their cost & benefits to be derived from
tmx , the expenditures of such proceeds
& the goods and servica inanced out of
such proceeds
2.05(c)       Upon the award by SODEFrrEX of any
contnct for goods, works or services, IDA
may publish a descrition, name & nationaLty   Y
of the psAty to whom the contact was
awarded and the contract price          .
2.05(d)       SODEFITEX shall furnish to IDA a half-
yeasly progress  port mcl. M&E faults oa
all acivis under Pa  A through 1.1, at
IDA's request, wihin 6 months after the       Y
Effective Date for the first time, and wihin
2 months after the end of each semester
thereafter
2.05(e)       Not ater than 6 months after the Closing      Y
Date, SODPITECX shall funish to IDA
Pt U of the PCR to be published by IDA  .
2.05(f)       SODEPITEX shall enable IDA to examne all,
its  plants,  instations,  sites,  work,      Y
buildings, prpety & equipment and any
relevant records and documents
2.06         SODEPrITX  shall duly perform  all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agrement and under the agrements efered
to in Sectio 2.01(b) of this Agremet and      Y
6.01(c) of the DCA. and agrees not to tLke
any action not to amend it



-27 -                                       PART m
Credit A4 _met          Brie Dacrlp  of Covnanes                                     Remarks
See000
2.07         (a) SODRRTX shall, at IDA's request.          Y
exchae  views with IDA with regawd to
the Projct prognrss. the perfonmance of
i obligtions, and other maums relaing
to the pusposes of the Cedit;
(b) SODEFrrEX shaD promptly infonn IDA        Y
of any conditon which interferes with
the Proict prgrs, the accomplsm
of the purposes of the Credit, or the
perforan=. by SODEFTEX of its
obligations under this Agement
2.08         In making credits available to ABPs in the
form of equipment, as set forth in Part D.2 of
the Proct, SODEFTEX  shal require
tbrough appropriate arangmets Uat ABPs
(i)  make a down payment to SODEPITEX         Y
of 20% of the cost of such equipment;
(s) repay to SODEFITEX the remainder of       Y
such cost over a period not exceeding
4 yasn; and
(ii) pay to SODEFrEX intret at a rat not      Y
less than 12% p.a.
2.09         SODERTEX shall aeure that its proceduros
for providing, and controlling the use of,
transportation means to field staff shall be  Y
appropriate to ensure an efficient use of
transpotation resources         .
3.01         SODEPrITX shall carry on its operations &
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
practices under the supervision of qualfied   Y
._________ nmanagement assised by competent staff
3.02         SODEPITEX shall operate and maintain its
plant, nmachinery, equipment and  other       Y
prpety, and makc necessary repairs and
.  renew4ls therof
3.03         SODEFREX shall taic out and maitain with
responsibe insurers, satisfactory to IDA,     Y
insurance against such risks in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate prat _
3.04         SODEFITEX shall not lter than Decenber
31, 1984, take al necessary iessures, incl.
but not limitd to modif. in its agrcement with
SONACOS, to ensure that sufficient cotton     Y
seed shall be made avilabe to livestock
producs in the Project area
3.05         SODEF X shall not modify or terminat
the agrmaents datd April 22, 1974 bween       Y
SODEFITEX and CFDT unless sastictwry to
IDA
4.01(a)       SODEFITEX shall naintain adequate records
mrflecting its opentions & financial condition,  Y
incl. separae accounts reflecting all
I__________   expenditures made on the basis of SOEs                          . ._. _._..



-28-                                         PART IM
CredMt                   Brief Dacpd eo Cveants               C.MPaee                Remar
4.01(b)       SODEPITEX shll  an, untilI year afer           Y
th Closing DMae, Oal records evidecig such
4meditures. snd enable IA to exatins suob
t  _  _  _ _  _  _  records  .
4.02(a)       SODEFITEX  shall have its accounts             y .
financial statemens for each PY audited by
___________    Independent ators accpable to IDA
4.02(b)       SODERPITX shall fuenish to IDA, not later
than 9 months after the end of PY 198384
and not latr than 6 months after the ead of
each PY thereafler,
(. )  ceti copies of its finaial satemet     y
for uich year as so audited; and
(u) such aud  repot by said audtrs, at        Y
IDA's request, including a sepuate
opinion on reabiit  of SOe_
4.02(c)       SODEFEX shal furish to IDA, not ae
than 6 months afler the end of PY 1983-84
and not laer hn 4 months after the end of     Y
each PY theeafter, a copy of its unaudd
financial statemn_t for such year
4.02(d)       SODEFfIEX shU furmish to IDA such other        Y
information coc. said accounts, financial
_stat   , record & expendturs, & the
audit theeof, at IDA's request                         . _
4.03         Not lar than 6 months aftr the Effective       1
Date, SODEPITX shall idroduce and utilizw
in the maagemet of its opetions an
adequate budgetary contol unit
4.04         SaDE     =X shall me all nes. mesus to         Y
assi  the Borrwer in complying with its
. __________   obligations under Seeion 4.06 of dte DCA
c:ldbsnlcf4O6~agiah



-  -29'-                                     PART m
S. Use of Bank Resources
A. StaffJnau on3 staff weeiu)
.Y??             YF     ml f7- FYM   FYM_ FYM   FYM   FYM    FM89  PY              M 1   FM   ?3A
h.pad=      4.4   LO     7   2.    14                   ___                                                 472
-                                           0   749   LJ2 A                       _ t2k.9
B.  1Dim(tafn d Coslat)
i                    ~~~~~~~MAs         +           v_            C_ 
_9 -    -                                                     -            -      -             -
Sw_           -  -S- 2                     1                                              -            -     -
94"          dSSO           t             a              e                                           tl
_____d1 4? 2                               12                             Il     1      . -          1?
-          -..--                                   -                   _      , -  -  -  --
B. MJ;.z  (Saf and Coslt.n. 
A_pal.!        ___      _  1                                   3 es_                                            R
2fgt      211 
11/ a=%agricAura b=ecocomist, c=finacial analyst, d-livestock speclalist
2J1 lsnoormIinor problems, 2-modenta problems,3-major problemns
J/ F.fiacial, M=managerial, T=technic8, P=polkical, 0=other
Il/ Witadthe uloducteon of now 590 format, panblem stentification solnger tDok thi form



