Drocumie- or
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
C4Q. I Lfc6 - s £
Rtpwt No. P-3629-SE
REPORT AD RECOIMENDI0N
OF TE1M
PRESIDENT OF 1E
TN EU ONAL D             ASSOCIhON
TO TME
MECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR TE
EASTER  SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPM    PROJECT
July U, 1983
tbdr ak  dl 1s. df cSkot =m   _ &     be _kow vi_t Wol Bm



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cuzrency Unit      =    CPA franc 5CFAF)
USS1             =       CFAF 355
CFAF I million   -       USS2,817
SISTEK OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: MERIC
ABBREVIATIOHS AND ACRONYMS
ABP           Association de Base de Producteurs (Pre-Cooperative Mutual
Guarantee Uillage Group).
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France).
CFDm          Compagnie Frangaise pour le Developpement des Fibres 4mextiles.
cPSP          Caisse de Per6quation et de Stabilisation des Prix
(Stabilization Fund).
DSPA          Direction de la Sante et des Productions Animales (Livestock
Department).
FAC           Fonds d"Aide et de Coopera'ion (France).
PDESO         Projet de D6veloppernent de 1 Elevage au SIznegal Oriental.
SFD           Saudi Fiwd for Development
SODEFITEX     Societe pour le D6veloppement des Fibres Textiles (Cotton
Developuent Agency)
FISCAL YEARS
SODEFITEX                          October 1 - September 30
Government                         July 1 - June 30
1/  The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:   Socit-e pour le D&veloppement des Fibres Textiles (SODEFITEX)
Amount:        SDR 14.9 million (US$16.1 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Relending      Most of the Credit proceeds (USS15.2 rillion equivalent)
Terms:         will be passed on to SODEFITEX as a grant, except for US$0.9
million equivalent (for small revenue-earning investments in
crop processing and storage) which will be on-lent to SODEFIT:2X
at 11% p.a. over 12 years including a four-year grace period.
Co-Lenders:    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
Fonds u'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD)
Project        The Drincipal project objective is to raise the level of rural
Description:   incomes in the project area through increases in production of
cotton, cereals, and livestock products. This will be achieved
through crop development activities, and by strengthening and
support of existing rural de.eloment institutions, improve-
ments in applied research, training of extension workers, and
rehabilitation of essential rural infrastructure.
The project will be implemented over a five-year period. At
full development, it is expected to reach about 80,000 farm
families and-to generace an incremental production of about
23,000 ions of lint and 13,100 tons of cotton seed, 12,400 tons
of maize, 5,000 tons of millet/sorghum, 22,300 head of cattLie,
and 1 million liters of milk.
Benefits and   The project's main cuantifiable benefit would derive from
Risks:         expected incremental production of cotton, food crops and
livestock products. Incomes of partic_,pating farmers would
increase over the project period by an estimated US$16 million
equivalent, and road user savings estimated at about US$1
million per annum would accrue after the proposed improvement
works. Unquantifiable benefits would include better financial
management of SODEFITEX, enhancement of its capability to plan
and implement development activities, and social benefits from
the research, maize-processing, village health and water supply
components.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutcs- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project does not involve any significant technical risks.
Execution of all components is relatively simple, except
perhaps for the maize processing component, which however
represents only 0.5% of project costs and does not affect
project returns. The possibility that total cultivated areas
for cotton would not reach the level proposed in the project is
not considered a large risk because of the relative
attractiveness of cotton compared to that of other crops.
Estimated Costs: (Net of identifiable taxes and duties) 1/
Local     Foreign   Total
--US$ million equivalent--
Crop Production                           4.0         4.9      8.9
Crop Processing and Storage               0.8         1.5      2.3
Rehabilitatlon of Field Offices           0.8         0.9      1.7
Training                                  0.3         0.9      1.2
M{onitoring and Evaluation - Audit        0.6         0.3      0.9
Assistance to Producer Groups             0.8         1.6      2.4
Feeder Roais                              3.1         5.6      8.7
Village Water Supply                      0.4         0.8       1.2
Primary Health                            0.3         0.7      1.0
Applied Research                          0.5         0.7      1.2
Livestock: (a) Southern Zone              0.7         0.6      1.3
(b) Northern Zone              2.0        0.9       2.9
Refunding PPF                             0.1         0.3      0.4
Total Base Line Costs                    14.4        19.7     34.1
Pnysical Contingencies                    0.8         1.4      2.2
Price Contingencies                       4.3         4.0      8.3
Total Project Costs                      19.5        25.1     44.6
SODEFITEX Capital Increase 2/             0.5         2.6      3.1
Total Financing Required                 20.0        27.7     47.7
1i   Project costs have been calculated net of all identifiable taxes and
duties, since from an agreement signed with Government in 1979, SODEFITEX
is exempt from taxes and duties on all its investments for a twelve-year
period.
2/   To be financed by Government and CCCE.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total    Percentage
------US  million equivalent…
IDA                              6.3       9.8       16.1 1/      34
CCCE                             6.1      10.6       16.7         35
SDF                              1.1       2.1        3.2          6
FAC                              1.3       2.3        3.6          8
Government                       2.2       1.4        3.6          8
SODEFITEX and
Beneficiaries                  3.0       1.5        4.5          9
20.0      27.7      47.7         100
Estimated Disbursements from            US$ millions
IDA Credit:
FY84      FY85      FY86       FY87      FY88       FY89
Annual              1.0 1!    2.4        3.5       3.8        3.0       2.4
Cumulative          1.0        3.4       6.9       10.7      13.7      16.1
Economic Return:  25 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4297-SE, dated July 8, 1983
Map: IBRD 16861R
I/  Includes refinancing of a PPF advance of US$400,000.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOPU4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBL'TC OF SENEGAL FOR
THE EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal -or an amount in various
currencies equivalent to SDR 14.9 million (US$16.1 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance the Eastern Senegal Rural Development
Project.  Additional external financing for the project would be provided by
loans from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE, France) in the
amount of USS16.7 million equivalent and from the Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) in the amount of US$3.2 million equivalent, and by a grant from the
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC, France) in the amount of US$3.6 million
equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOPYY 1/
2.       A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors oc March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
'P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded sectioc
on the economic situation. Since approval of the Structural Adjustment
Loaa/Credit, a series of supervision missions have visited thie country to
monitor execution of the program.  The fbllo-ing paragraphs reflect the
conclusions of tnose missions. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quar2ers of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts.  The mainstays of the tradi-
tional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
conswuption, and groandaut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of about one million in-
habitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism indus-
try.  With a population of 5.8 million in mid-1981, Senegal's per capita GNP
for 1981 was estimated at USS500.
1/   Tne text of this Section remains substantially unchanged from that
ircluded in the President's Report for the Second Parapublic Technical
Assistaace Project which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 16, 1983.



- 2 -
4.       With Independence, Senegal lost its privileged position as the center
of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to its reduced economic,
administrative, and political circumstances. ?Xoreover, in the latter part of
the decade, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell, due to unfa-
vorable weather and declining export prices. As a result, during the 1960s,
the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stagnation as real output increased
at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum, hardly more than the rate of
population growth.
5.       In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector -was again hit by
sharp fluctuations, and even -ith higher rates of both private and public in-
vestment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. After recovery from earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about 5
percent a year between 1973 and 1977, but declined by 2 percent a year between
1977 and 1981, reflecting the effect of three severe droughts during this
period. A marked recovery from the orevious depression occurred in 1982 with
an estimated 10.5 percent real growth in GDP. Results of the 1982/83 agri-
cultural season have again been good, leading to an expected 3 percent growth
in GDP in 1983.
6.       Large fluctuations in physical production have been aggravated by the
price movements of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent due to exceptionally high
price3 for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in
1975, export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed by a drop in
export prices for phosphates in 1976. Increases in oil and rice prices
brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in
income of roughly 6 percent of GDP between 1974 and 1982. This deterioration
in terms of trade, along with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as
a whole, led the Government to launch an economic and financial stabilization
program in 1980. This program was extensively discussed with the Bank and the
Fund, and -was the basis for an agreement on the purchase of US$243 million
equivalent under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) approved by the IMF in
August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL)
approved by the Bank on December 18, 1980. The main objectives of the Govern-
ment's five-year program were to stabilize the economy during the first two
years and to achieve an economic growth rate of 4 percent per annum in the
following three years.
Execution of the Structural Adjustment Program
7.       The structural adjustment program had a slow start as a result of the
change _n Government in early 1981, a record low 1980/81 groundnut crop, and
steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new Government reaffirmed
the general objectives of the program, but during its first year in office
chose to focus on the economic and financial crisis caused by the drought.
Some of the measures and policies adopted by the new Government contradicted
the cbjectives of economic stabilization and structural reform undertaken by
the previous Government, and the agreed calendar for execution of the SAL
program was not fully respected (paras. 9 to 17). In early 1981, the IMF
suspended Senegal's access to the EFF, replacing it later in the year with a
Stand-by Arrangement to help the Government overcome its severe short-term



-3-
financial difficulties. The SAL Closing Date was extended by 18 months, to
June 30, 1983, in order to give the Government more time to carry out the
program. Although considerable progress was made in a number of areas
(notably in investment allocation, parapublic sector management, and in
incentive policies), the Government was unable to carry out the entire program
a3 originally agreed, especially in agriculture and in the control of govern-
ment current expenditures.  As a result, and in agreement with the Government,
the second tranche of tne general imports program was cancelled at the Closing
Date.
Balance of Payments
8.       The new balance of payments policies introduced under the
stabilization program were based on strict control of overall demand through
tax and consumer price increases, combined with increases in the prices paid
for major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for manu-
factured exports. However, the targeted reduction in the resource gap could
not be achieved, mainly because of the 1980/81 drought and organizational
problems in the agricultural sector. The fall in groundnut product exports
from a past five-year average of US$220 million to US$94 million in 1980 and
US$54 million in 1981, together with exceptionally high import bills for
petroleum, rice, and oil seeds, increased the resource gap in 1981 to US$523
million, or about 22 percent of GDP. In 1980 and 1981, the Government
recelved exceptional aid from bilateral and mualtilateral donors, averaging
US3170 million a year.  Tthis was, however, insufficient to avoid a further
fall in net foreign assets, from USS78 million in 1980 to a level of negative
S$4U65 million at the end of 1951.  This was subsequently financed by the I1F
for an amount of US$148 million.  In 1981, the resource gap was estimated at
20 percent of GDP, narrowed to 14%1 in 1982, and is forecast at about 13% for
1985.  The good rainfall during the 1981/82 growing season permitted a five-
fold increase in the 1982 value of groundnut exports, despite exceptionally
low world market prices fur vegetable oils. However, the value of imports
rose by about 15 percent, despite the introduction of measures to contain
urban demand (para. 11). With total imports for 1983 still projected at about
42%n of CDP (as compared to around 30% in the early 1970s), further economic
adjustment needs to be achieved in the coming years, mainly through contain-
ment of urban consumption levels, food import substitution and strong
promotion of exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.       The structural adjustment program laid the basis for further
improving the country's trade balance by supporting an export premium system
on certain manufactured goods.  The export premium system has already signifi-
cantly increased export and employment levels in the sectors to which it was
applied. An extension to 1i other agricultural and industrial branches, as
well as a considerable refinement of the system, will be implemented during
the current fiscal year. In February 1982, after a 31 percent increase in the
official consumer price for imported rice, the Government also introduced a 15
percent general import duty. More frequent price adjustments for rice will be
reqaired 't  reflect changes in import costs, mainly related to the realignment
of frenc zone curreacies. Senegal has begun to make serious efforts to



-4-
improve its competitive position in industry and services by limiting wage
increases to substantially below those of the urban cost of living index.
Public Finances
10.      The first budget (1980/81) under the new financial and economic
policies respected the 15 percent public savings target set under the struc-
tural adjustment program. However, the economic depression drastically
reduced tax receipts, particularly on corporate profits and luxury imports.
On the expenditures side, under pressure of growing unemployment among
graduates, the Government did not succeed in restraining civil service growth.
Moreover, the price stabilization fund, CPSP, started to generate vast losses,
mainly on supporting producer prices and input subsidies in the groundnut
subsector. These severe deviations from budget estimates put tremendous
strain on the Treasury, and the Government's inability to pay its bills
threatened the stability of the entire economy. Whereas the Government had
always given priority to payment of its external obligations, in mid-1981 it
asked the Paris Club for a rescheduling of publicly-held foreign debt, and in
October 1981 a rescheduling of US$81 million amortization was agreed upon.
During the same month, the Government also called a donors' conference to
assemble the support needed to finance an exceptionally high proportion of a
reduced program of investment projects and rehabilitation activities.
11.      In accordance with the IMF Standby Arrangement, subsidies on basic
food and petroleum prolucts were removed by increasing Government-controlled
consumer prices by between 25 and 60 percent. Other consumer prices were
affected by increases of 1 to 2 percent in value-added taxes and 4 to 12
percent increases in taxes on various services. Government purchases were
reduced to an absolute minimum and IMF credit ceilings were respected. In
fact, by end-June 1982, all performance criteria established by the IM4F had
been met. But despite a reasonably satisfactory fiscal performance, it is
unlikely that by 1985 Government will be able to finance from its net budget-
ary savings 25 percent of its public investment program, the target that the
Government set itself in the original structural adjustment program. The main
reason for this shortcoming is that debt service will reach 33 percent of
Government receipts in 1982/83 instead of the 15 percent projected in 1979,
owing to an additional 20 percent of previously unregistered debts, debt
service on exceptional aid during the drought years, rescheduled amortization
payments, and debt service on the US$265 million debt of ONCAD (paras. 15-
17). Because of these unfavorable public finance prospects, in November 1982
the Government obtained from the Paris Club another round of debt reschedul-
ing. The Government also agreed with the IMF on a new Standby Arrangement for
1982/83 based on a program of further tax increases, reduction in the growth
of the civil service, and other measures linked with the SAL program.
Investment Program
12.      The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
drastically since establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980. While the latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-
establish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced pro-
gram has become problematic. Private investments are stagnating because of



the depressed national economy. Public investment is suffering from financing
problems because the country is uncreditworthy for commercial loans, domestic
credit is constrained under IMF ceilings and, for the next few years, the
budget will not be able to generate an investable surplus. A positive
development is the progress made on the new phosphoric acid and fertilizer
complex, based on locally-mined phosphate rock, whose production is intended
largely for export to India and other African states. Since the Government
continues to give priority to projects in productive sectors, the share of
directly productive investments will probably reach 65 percent, and thus
surpass the objective of 55 percent set in the structural adjustment program.
The combined investdents of the public and the parapublic sector will be in
the vicinity of the agreed ceiling of 10 percent of GDP set for this category.
Parapublic Sector
13.      Reform of the large parapublic sector in Senegal continues to be a
high government priority. Over the last three years the Government has taken
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable
enterprises (through the liquidation of 20 companies) and has transferred
ownership of several other companies to the private sector. For the remaining
parapublic enterprises, the Government has increased managerial autonomy by
beginning to negotiate "contrats-plan", which set clear objectives for company
operations and spell out the reciprocal obligations of Government and enter-
prise managers.
14.      To date, the Government has signed five contrats-plans, and several
others are well advanced. A major objective of the Second Parapublic Tech-
nical Assistance Project, approved by the Board in July 1983, is to provide
technica;. assistance to parapublic enterprises for the development of reha-
bilitation programs which can serve as the basis for realistic, viable
contrats-plan, and to strengthen the institutional framework for contrat-plan
monitoring. In this way, the advantages of Government/enterprise eontracts
can be extended to an increased number of enterprises, and implementation can
be more effectively controlled.
Agricultural Reforms
15.      At the outset of the 1979 economic and financial rehabilitation pro-
gram, problems in the agricultural sector had been vastly underestimated, both
in terms of the size of financial deficits generated and the strength of
vested interests supporting existing structures. Liquidation of the Govern-
ment-controlled agricultural marketing organization (ONCAD) set in motion the
slow process of sorting out these deficits and building a national consensus
around new organizational formulae.
16.      The heart of the envisaged agricultural reform was in the cooperative
structure and credit system, where farmer groups at the village level would
collectively maintain their credit rating and undertake certain tasks such as
primary marketing and storage of groundnut seed. A new law for agricultural
cooperatives that determines the legal status of these farmer groups has
recently been adopted by the National Assembly but not yet put into effect.
As for credit, Government has absorbed the farmers' old seed debts considered



irrecoverable after the drought years, and announced the creation of a new
agrirultural credit organization in which a French agricultural credit bank
has been asked to participate. Tests of the new system are beginning in
several areas, including a few districts in the Groundnut Basin. In the
interim, in the absence of agricultural credit for the majority of groundnut
farmers, Government has instituted a system of cash sales for fertilizer and a
levy on the groundnut purcnase price to finance seeds.
17.      By eliminating the large and cumbersome groundnut marketing agency,
ONCAD, the Government took a major policy initiative. This move was comple-
mented by the decision to entrust secondary groundnut marketing to the oil
nills, thus reducing the number of intermediaries in the marketing process.
Over the same period (1980), however, the Government created SONAR, a state
enterprise intended to phase out direct Government involvement in the supply
of agricultural inputs. The progress achieved under the latter reform was
somewhat limited as, although SONAR's functions were reduced, it inherited
more of ONCAD's staff than required to execute these functions efficiently.
But above all, the Government did not change its seed and fertilizer policy,
despite the inability of both the Government and CPSP to bear the heavy costs
involved. The policy includes: (a) a central and costly scheme of seed dis-
tribution to groundaut farmers, and (b) heavy subsidies (80% of full cost of
CFAF 100-129/kg in 1982/83) on fertilizers. Subsidies on seeds accounted for
one-sixth of the US$70 million losses accumulated last year in the State's
price stabilization fund, CPSP. The Government's inability to make the
required down-payment to the fertilizer factory resulted in a minimal quantity
delivered for the 1982/83 season, and, because of the high subsidies, the
private sector could not enter the market for fertilizers. In September 1982,
the Government committed itself to change progressively its seed and ferti-
lizer supply policy. Beginning with the 1983/84 season, farmers were to be
encouraged to keep their own groundnut seeds. Fertilizers have been sold
against cash at an average price of CFAF 50/kg, as compared to CFAF 25/kg the
previous season. However, progress with implementation of both these measures
has been disappointing.
Long-term Prospects
18.      The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Agricultural research will be oriented more to
farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better adapting them to
farmers' constraints. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the
arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. Construction has
started on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River by the ONVS, but
the high level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice will require the
Government to pace new irrigation development prudently.
19.      The phosphoric acid project is now well advanced, and the export
premium and realignment of the Franc Zone currencies will, hopefully, attract
more light export industries and tourism once the international economy has



- 7 -
improved. Construction of a ship-repair yard has been completed. However,
these export diversification efforts are unlikely to offset the severely
weakened prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commcdity.
Groundnut oil exports suffer from irregular supplies and from an increased
supply of competing vegetable oils; exports of groundnut cake suffer from the
risk of aflatoxin contamination, which diminishes its value as cattle fodder.
As a consequence, in the next few years the share of total exports in CDP is
expected to remain below the levels attained in the early 1970s.
20.      The Government's economic policies and the exceptional foreign aid
granted to Senegal have helped the country pass through the most difficult
years of its economic history, but these efforts have not been enough to bring
the economy back on a path of balanced growth. The over-extended public sec-
tor, as well as heavy domestic arrears and external debt service charges, will
impose serious burdens on the State Treasury and may create a need for further
debt rescheduling. The Treasury will not be able to absorb substantial
additional recurrent cost charges from public investment projects, and for a
few years will need high shares of foreign financing for projects in order to
maintain minimum investment levels. The unfavorable balance of payments
situation calls for a reassessment of Senegal's longer term prospects and the
establishment of a new program of action to achieve the required structural
adjustments. The Bank will focus its country dialogue on these problems and,
in the interim, will considerably redace the IBRD share in the Bank Group
blend financing Senegal receives.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SETEGAL
21.      As of March 31, 1983, the Bank Group has had 51 operations in Senegal
for a total of US$462.7 million including 26 IDA credits, 12 Bank loans, 5
blends of Bank and IDA funds, 5 IFC operations, 2 blends of Bank and IFC
funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IC funds. Most r ject lending has
been for agriculture, transportation and education. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank Group operations to date. Physical execution of pro-
jects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected by
the shortage of counterpart funds due to the continuing public finance diffi-
culties described in Part I of this report. Institutional weaknesses in
several sectors and a lack of qualifi-d local staff for key positions
constitute serious obstacles to efficient project implementation.
22.      The Bank's Group strategy for Senegal is to offer financial and
technical assistance in areas where the Government is ready to take necessary
corrective action to: (i) implement investment policies and incentives to
develop and diversify Senegal's production and export base; (ii) increase the
efficiency and savings capacity of the public sector; and (iii) maintain
existing infrastructure. Top priority is given to improving policies in the
agricultural sector where projects can be expected to have a beneficial impact
on economic growth, export earnings, income distribution and rural incomes.
Progress in agriculture, however, is hampered by slow implementation of policy
reforms, and unsatisfactory performance by several key Government and para-
public agencies. The Bank Group is also planning to support institutional



reforms that would encourage a stronger role for the private sector, as in the
phosphste and petroleun industries.
23.      In agriculture, project len_ing will continue to promote productivity
imrorovements for traditional food and cash crops, together with diversifica-
tion linto new crops and new regions. This effort has led IDA to finance an
Agricultural Research Project focussing on agricultural systems improvements,
which should give new impetus to extension services and lead to a more inte-
grated approach to rural development in semi-arid areas. In addition to the
proposed cotton/food crop project for the rainfed Eastern Senegal and
Casamance regions, IDA is also cunsidering support for a Fourth Irrigation
Project that -ould rehabilitate and erpand existing medium-sized irrigation
perimeters. The feasibility of new activities in the Groundnut Basin depends
on further progress with structural reforms in input distribution, crop
marketing and agricultural credit.
24.      The BanLk Group has also supported diversification of the economy by
lending to the growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere
Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT),
a development finance company established -with Bank assistance in 1974, and
for -hich a third line of credit was approved in FY81.  Also in FY81, the Bank
supported execution of the ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by finaticing
the rail irfrastructure component. A Phosphate Industrial Development
Engineering project, approved by the Executive Directors in May 1983, will
help maximize the efficiency of phosphate mining and processing in Senegal,
and assist Senegal in orienting the global development of its phosphate
resources. Currently, Senegal's economy depends greatly on oil imports.
After the 1973 ar-I 1979 oil crises, the Government embarked on an active
policy of promoting the discovery of new energy resources and application of
new technology.  The Bank supported this new orientation by approving a
Petroleum Exploration project in Februairy 1983. Diversification is also being
pursued through a tourism infrastruccure project which is almost completed,
and which includes a special line of credit to provide long-term financing &s
a catalyst for potential private investors.
25.      Bank Group projects have sappcrted economically desirable moderniza-
tion and expansion of the country's infrastructure.  But with the stagnant
economy and heavy infrastructure icvestments in the past, emphasis is now
being given to better utilization and maintenance of existing facilities.
Thus the Bank is now preparing a project designed to support the Government's
policy to preserve the road network through adequate maintenance; similarly, a
project is being prepared to finance facilities required to accommodate
increasing container traffic at the Port of Dakar.
26.      While the Bank Group's overall lending strategy responds to the
importance in Senegal of financing directly productive projects, it also
recognizes the need for some assistance to the so-called social sectors.
Project design and preparation have taken due account of the ability of the
Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In education,
efforts have been directed to technical and vocational trai-i.ng to support
activities in the productive sectors.  The Bank Gro-:p is now finalizing pre-
paration of a Regional Management School Project.  A possible Fourth Education



- 9 -
Project would focus on reversing the current downward treuds in access to
primary education. A Rural Health project was approved by the Board in
December 1982, and a Water Supply Project in eleven secondary centers has been
appraised and is scheduled to be submitted to the Board in FY84.
27.      As it became increasingly clear that many o£ Senegal's economic and
finncial problems went beyond the limits of specific subsectors, the Bank
started to shift some of its program toward multi-sectoral technical assis-
tance and structural adjustment lending.  A FY78 Parapublic Sector Technical
Assistance Project and the FY81 Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit are examples
of this changing strategy. The latter aimed at supporting the Government's
efforts to control aggregate demand, redirect its public investment program,
st-rengthen  the management of the parapublic sector, and promote industrial
exports and other productive activities through improved price and incentive
policies. Although considerable progress was acnieved in implementing many
objectives of the Drogram, the second tranche of the Structural Adjustment
Loan was cancelled on June 30, 1983 due to insufficient progress in other
important areas, including inadequate public savings performance and inappro-
priate agricultural input delivery systems. The recently approved Second
ParaDublic Technical Assistance Project will continue to support the rehabili-
t-ation of viable public enterprises as started under the structural adjustment
program. The FY81 Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning aims to strengthen the Government's capacity to expedite preparation
of selected investment projects, and to improve monitoriag of the investment
program. Additionally, substantial technical assistance is being provided
under the Bank's economic and sector work program, as -ell as under
engineering loans and credits and PPF advances for project preparation.
28.      Given the need to fccus Senegal's public investment program on high-
priority projects and to finance almost all of this program from external
sources, improved donor coordination assumes increased importance. The Bank
is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with the
I1TF and with strengthened consultation with bilateral and multilateral
donors.  Recognizing the imDortance of 1 >lping Senegal extend its access to
donor assistance, the Bank financed consulting services for preparation of a
donors' conference in October 1981, and has been actively participating in
follo-w-up discussions on policies and investment priorities in specific
sectors.
29.      The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1982 stayed at an average of approximately 18 percent, of which roughly
two-thirds is IDA-financed, largely reflecting disbursements on existing Bank
Group commitments.  The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was
21 percent in 1981, and may approach 25 percent by 1985. The Bank Group's
share in public debt service is expected to increase from 4.3 percent in 1980
to about 9.5 percent in 1985.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
Background
30.      Agriculture remains a key sector in the Senegalese economy, and
employs about 75 percent of the labor force; but per capita income of the
rural population represents less than half of the national estimate (about
$500 in 1981).  Almost all the rural output is rainfed production by small-
scale uni-ts, but there is much diversity in farm size, labor availability,
ownership of agricultural capital, productivity and income. Human and
livestock pressure on land in the Groundnut Basin - where 60 percent of
Senegal's population farm on about 35% of its land area - is becoming serious,
causing a gradual movement of people, sometimes encouraged by Government, to
less Dopulated areas of the country, particularly Eastern Senegal.
31.      Efforts by Government to develop agriculture have in the recent past
been directed toward: (i) providing inputs for the rural sector through the
aprogramme agricole"; (ii) organizing the sector into cooperatives to facili-
tate credit and marketing; (iii) increasing and diversifying production
through promotion of ne-r crops, and development of livestock; (iv) encouraging
migration to and settlement in suitable underpopulated areas; and (v) seeking
to develop the country's irrigation potential especially in the Senegal River
Basin and in the Casamance regions to reduce reliance on imported food
grains.  The major instruments for tais policy have been the parastatal
regional development agencies, and Government has made significant efforts
over the past 2-3 years, with financial and technical assistance from major
donors inc-uding the Bank Group, to reduce the size and improve the efficiency
of these institutions, and to involve farmers in the decision-making processes
of issues which are of greatest concern to them.
The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
32.      Bank Group lending for agricultural and rural development totals
USS118 million (90 percent from IDA) for 15 operations as follows: three
projects for engineering and constructior. of polders and large irrigation
perimeters in the Senegal River Delta; two projects for agricultural credit;
two projects for development of rice cultivation in the Middle Casamance
Region; two programs for resettlement of farm families in the underpopulated
Eastern Senegal Region; an agricultural project for crop improvement and
diversification in the Southern Groiundnut Basin; a livestock development
project; an emergency drought relief program; a project supporting several
types of small rural operations in productive activities; a national project
for reafforestation and natural forest management; and a national research
project for agricultural development.
33.      Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for six projects:
First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 584-SE and Credit 140-SE); First
Casanance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE); Terres Neuves I Resettlement Project
(Credit 254-SE); Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE); Senegal River Polders
Project (Credit 350-SE); Second Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 404-SE);
and .'erres !Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical Assistance



- 1t -
Project (Credit 578-SE). The main shortcomings mentioned concern: (i) the
quality of engineering design and supervision of construction of project
works; Cii) marketing, unremunerative prices and input distribution; and (iii)
the need to investigate more thoroughly the social aspects involved in project
planning and execution. Although these lessons are not all relevant to the
proposed project, particular attention was paid during appraisal to the
social, input distribution, and marketing aspects, and the project design
takes into account appropriate findings and recommendations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT AREA
34.      The proposed project will cover the Eastern Senegal and Upper
Casamance regions, areas where the responsible regional development agency
SODEFITEX currently provides extension, input supply, marketing and processing
services.  The net area covers some 43,000 k=2 and has a population of about
500,000.  The climate is suitable for rainfed crops, and soils have average to
good fertility and are particularly suited to animal traction.  Agricultural
production consists of cash crops (predominantly cotton) anz  food crops
(millet, sorghum, maize and rice in the Casamance region), but livestock
development is also a traditional activity which plays an important economic
and social role.
35-      The project area comprises 'wo zones: ri) The Northern or pastoral
zone is characterized by a very short rainy season, low rainfall allowing only
marginal crops (millet/sorghum), and a very low population density. Livestock
(120,000 cattle and 70,000 sheep and goats) is almost the only livelihood of
the population in the area; (ii) In the more populated Southern or agro-
sastoral zone, agro-ecological conditions are more favorable, and crops
(cotton, cereals, and groundnuts) and livestock (470,000 cattle, 260,000 sheep
and goats) are equally important economically.
36.      The main towns in the project area are served by three major tarmac
and all-weather roads, but access to villages from these roads is poor. The
population is also not well served by access to potable water. There are few
perennial streams, and sub-surface water is generally deep, particularly in
the north (30-60 m). Traditional wells are often dry for long periods of the
year, and villagers have to spend much time fetching water.  Medical infra-
structure is also poor, and most of the few existing rural health posts
require rehabilitation. M4alaria and gastrointestinal diseases occur mostly
during the rainy season when the demand for agricultural labor is highest.
SODEFITEX
37.      `Societe pour le D6veloppement des Fibres Textiles" (SODEFITEX) is
the regional rural development agency serving the project area. SODEFITEX was
created in 1973 as a commercially oriented mixed enterprise owned by Govern-
ment, the Compagnie Francaise pour de Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT)
a French mixed company, and local banks. SODEFITEX is responsible for cotton
development, ginning and marketing throughout Senegal, as well as for the
overall integrated agricultural development of the Eastern Senegal and Upper



- 12 -
Casamance regions. SODEFITEX has satisfactorily demonstrated its competence
as an executing agency for large externally-financed development projectS,
including a FED-financed rice development project in Kedougou, a FAC-assisted
cereal pro-sct in Tambacounda, and the ongoing Eastern Senegal Livestock
Development Project. The latter project, co-financed by IDA (Cr. 633-SE,
1976), the Kuwait Fund and BADEA is being executed by "Projet de Developpement
de 1IElevage aU Senegal Oriental" (PDESO), a semi-autonomous project unit
within SODEFITEX. Overall implementation is satisfactory, even though in its
two key activities (input delivery and range management) successes are only
recently becoming apparent, and additional external support is required before
they can become self-sustaining.
38.      SODPEFITEX has several advantages over other rural development
agencies in Senegal: (a) it controls the entire process of cotton production
and marketing from input supply, through production, ginning, and marketing of
cotton lint and seed.  It is therefore able to recover its costs, provide
reliable service to farmers, and ensure credit repayment; (b) it enjoys
adequate autonomy because of its status as a mixed enterprise; and (c) it has
access to commercial bank loans because of its industrial and commercial
nature. Unlike many of the other rural development agencies, SODEFITEX (and
PDESO) are not overstaffed, and all key positions in both institutions are
currently filled with qualified and experienced staff.
39.      SODEFITEX has long experience in training of extension personnel
(similar to that of the "Training and Visit System"), and it also has in place
a system of operations monitoring and evaluation within its Technical Directo-
rate for different functional areas (extension, input supply and credit,
ginning, marketing). However, there is a need to strengthen this system to
allow better coordination and systematic analysis of the data being collected.
40.      SODEFITEX also provides active assistance to farmers in organizing
village groups (Associations de Base des Producteurs-ABPs) to handle credit
and primary marketing, and following the collapse of the national agricultural
credit system in 1980, SODEFITEX on its ow-n initiative and responsibility,
proposed to grant seasonal and medium-term credits through the ABPs for
Durchase of farm equipment. These arrangements were carried out successfully,
and all down-payments and seasonal credits (inputs for cereals) for the
19ff1/82 season were paid.
41.      in Ell the above tasks, SODEFITEX benefits from the effective support
of CFDT, an experienced French mixed company specializing in rural development
and par-;icularly in cotton production and marketing. This support is provided
in the framework of technical assistance agreements between the two institu-
tions ielating to secondment of CFDT staff to SODEFITEX, and technical exper-
tise f:om CFDT in specialized fields, for example crop processing, marketing,
procttement, accounting and management.  Since any major change in. these
agre'ments could affect SODEFITEX' capacity to implement the proposed project,
assurances have been provided that prior IDA agreement will be soaght before
making any such change (Section 3.05 of draft Project Agreement).
42.      Supervision of the Livestock Project, as well as preparation and
implementation of a "contrat-plan" between SODEFITEX and Government under the



- 13 -
SAL, and preparation of the proposed project, have offered the Bank good
opportunities to assess SODEFITEX' relative strengths and weaknesses. This
has led to the conclusion that SODEFITEK is well managed, with a strong
capacity for controlling and ccordinating its activities at the local level,
and is fully accepted by farmers.  However, SODFFI'rEX relations with Govern-
ment and the Stabilization Fund (Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation
des Prix-CPSP) have often been strained by issues relating, for example, to
payment to CPSP of profits made on cotton, in return for which losses would be
absorbed by CPSP; this arrangement worked in CPSP's favor until the late
1970's when production declined and CPSP was unable to keep its share of the
bargain towards SODEFITEX. Similarly, Government's recent financial strin-
gency has made it unable to pay its obligations to SODEFITEX, particularly
counterpart funding for externally financed projects, subsidies to local
textile industries, and advances to input suppliers made by SODEFITEX on
behalf of Government. As a result, SODEFITEX was faced with an increasing
shortage of cash, and in 1981 came dangerously close to insolvency. For-
tunately, shortfalls in CPSP and sovernment contractual payments were
cushioned by overdrafts from local banks at an interast rate of 12%. Despite
this, the erosi,n of SODEFITEX' permanent funds and imbalances in its finan-
cial structure could not be avoided. In 1982, with SAL co-unterpart funds
(CFAF 2 billion) and Kuwait Fund support (CFAF 1.7 billion), Government was
able to repay a substantial portion of its own and CPSP arrears. Full
repayment of Government and CPSP obligations as of Nay 31, 1983, plus payment
to SODEFITEX of CFAF 215 million to cover PDESO costs for 1982/83, will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (e) of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
43.      The above situation suggests that existing agreements between
SODEFITEX and the Government/CPSP need some revisions. Essentially, the
revised agreement would include provisions: (i) authorizing SODEFITEX,
starting from the 1982/83 fiscal year, to retain 30% of its annual gross
profit, as follows: (a) up to an aggregate amount of CFAF 550 million to
increase Government's equity contribution to SODEFITEX, and (b) thereafter, up
to a consolidated ceiling of CFAF 1.0 billion, in a special reserve account to
be used by SODEFITEX to cushion its losses before having to draw on CPSP
resources; (ii) authorizing SODEFITEX to finance maintenance of feeder roads
from funds allocated within cotton revenues. Revision of the CPSP/SODEFITEX
agreement along these lines will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
(Section 6.01 (c) of draft DCA).
44.      in addition to the above provisions, there is also a need to increase
SODEFITEX' permanent fund (by an estimated CFAF 1.1 billion), preferably
through an increase in Government's equity contribution to SODEFITEX. As
suggesced in para. 43 above, SODEFITEX will in future retain 30% of its gross
annual profits to cover half of the capital increase. Part of the CCCE loan
proceeds will help finance procurement of non-incremental fertilizers and
insecticides in the first year of the project. Proceeds from sale of these
inputs to farmers will be retained by SODEFITEX and added to its working
capital; the corresponding liability to Government will be recorded in
SODEFITEX' balance sheet as an increase in equity owned by Government.
(Section 3.01 (f) of draft DCA).



- 14 -
45.      It is expected that the above measures will help SODEFITEX operate
profitably and generate a positive cash flow, and, together with. continuation
of SODEFITEX' current cost recovery policy which is working effectively, as
well as its tight control on recurrent expenditures, will substantially
improve productivity and operating efficiency of the agency.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Background
46.      The technical design of the proposed project follows recommendations
of a master plan for development of the Eastern Senegal Region prepared under
the IDA-assisted Terres 'Nieuves II Resettlement Project (Credit 578-SE), and
the proposed institutional arrangements matchn the operational and financial
capacities of SODEFITEX as outlined in paras. 37-45 above.  Preparation of a
feasibility study was undertaken with a US$400,000 advance from the Project
Preparation Facility approved in February 1980.  Concurrently, the French
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) financed and carried out, at Government's
request, an organizational and financial study of SODEFITEX. Project
appraisal was delayed for several months pending decisions regarding the
management of SODEFITEX, but was eventually carried out by a joint IDA/CCCE
mission in May/June 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington in Hay 1983
with a Senegalese delegation led by 14r. Amadou Bator Diop, Minister of Rural
Development.  The Staff Appraisal Report  No. 4297-SE dated July 8, 1983 is
being circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
Project Objectives and Description
47.      The princival project objectives are: (i) to increase production of
cotton, the main cash crop in the area, and cereals grown as rotation crops;
(ii) to organize farmer groups and help them assume increasing responsibility
for primary marketing, credit application and recovery, and investment deci-
sions; Ciii) to promote the integration of crop and livestock activities,
including consolidation of achievements under the ongoing Livestock Project;
(iv) to develop essential rural infrastructure; and (v) to improve the
operational and financial efficiency of SODEFITEX.
48.      Crop Development and Processing.  SODEFITEX extension services will
disseminate agronomic packages for cotton/cereals rotation, based on proven
techniques already promoted by SODEFITEX and recommendations from ongoing
research in the project area. Also, in recognition of the need to improve
market prospects for maize, the National Institute for Food Processing and
Research (ITA) will work to develop an appropriate technology for broken maize
as a substitute for imported broken rice which is now consumed in large
quantities.  The project will supply (for cash or on credit) some 32,500 units
of animal-drawn equipment and 5,000 ox-drawn carts, as well as specialist
services to advise extension workers on proper use of animal traction and
improvement in animal feeding.



- 15 -
49.      Livestock Development.  The livestock component in the Southern
(agro-pastoral) zone will be executed by the Directorate of Livestock (DSPA)
under an agreement with SODEFITEX with terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. SODEFITEX will finance purchases of vaccines and drugs for DSPA on a
renewal basis, operating costs and allowances for DSPA staff, training of
volunteer livestock extension workers, and will encourage construction of
small village veterinary pharmacies. The Northern (pastoral) zone livestock
component will be executed separately by PDESO, currently a Project Unit
within SODEFITEX, which will be transferred to DSPA (Section 6.01(d) of draft
DCA). This component will emphasize increased participation of pastoralists
in managing their own associations, making decisions, and promoting new
gr-zing practices.  The project will finance for both zones the vaccine for
rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia (CBPP) due to the importance
of controlling these high-risk epidemic diseases, and the uncertainty of
Government funding to support these efforts. Cotton-seed, mineral supple-
ments, vaccines and drugs (except vaccines for rinderpest and CBPP) will be
sold to cattle-owners in both zones at marked up prices (with an average
margin of about 25%).
50.      Assistance to Farmer Groups.  SODEFITEX will continue its support to
farmer groups (Associations de Base des Producteurs-ABPs) to help them assume
increasing responsibility for primary marketing, credit application and
recovery, and to increase their management capability and motivation for
undertaking collective investments. The project will also help SODEFITEX make
credit available to the farmer groups for purchases of equipment (peanut
butter mills, hand-pumps, stores, etc.), inputs and farm implements, under
terms and conditions as follows: 20% down payment, repayment over four years
maximum, at an interest rate of not less than 12% per annum.  (Section 2.08 of
draft PA). In support of the promotion of ABPs, Government will take all
necessary measures to establish them as autonomous entities with the capacity
to borrow, as a condition of Credit effectiveness.  (Section 6.01 (f) of draft
DCA). In addition, staff will be seconded from the Ministry of Human
Resources to help sponsor functional literacy and numeracy courses in about
30% of project area villages where almost all the population is illiterate.
51.      Train_ng.  The project will support SODEFITEX' existing system for
training of extension worksers which is considered satisfactory, but will also
organize longer training sessions during the off-season to update the
knowledge and skills of extension workers, and to ensure that feedback from
applied research and from monitoring and evaluation systems, are passed on as
appropriate. The project will finance construction of a training center,
equipment and operating costs. Training of office staff, ginnery workers, and
mechanics will be contracted to specialized local institutions.
52.      Feeder Road Construction and Maintenance.  The project will finance
the upgrading of 800 km of feeder roads tbo the minimum standard required for
traffic with 15-ton trucks, and will provide for adequate maintenance of the
entire feeder road network in the project area.
53.      Village Water Supply.  The project provides for construction of 16
tubewells and 20 open wells to supplement similar facilities being financed by



- 16 -
the Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD) and the Kuwait Fund. The
project will also finance rehabilitation of about 90 existing open wells.
Construction and rehabilitation of open wells will be subcontracted to the
Association Frangaise des Volontaires de Progres (AFTP), a non-governmental
organization already carrying out similar tasks satisfactorily in parts of the
project area.
54.      Primary Health.  The project includes a modest program of primary
health care to complement, at the village level, efforts under the IDA-
assisted Rural Health Project (Cr.1310-SE) at the district level. The project
will finance the renovation and equipping of 23 existing health posts and
construction of three medical depots, and supply of an initial stock of medi-
cines. Implementation of this component will be subcontracted to AFVP under
its current agreement with the Ministry of Health, and the project will
finance AFTP's operating costs. Beneficiaries will build health huts, pay for
medicines through a flat rate fee for each consultation, and nominate two
members from each village to be trained as rural community nurses and
midwives.
55.      Applied Research.  Under contract between SODEFITEX and the national
agricultural research organization (ISRA), the project will finance salaries
and operating costs of four researchers at Tambacounda, wnose work will focus
on agronomic trials, pest control, varietal improvemenz of cotton and food
crops, and zhe required linkage between research and extension.
56.      Support to SODEFITEX Management.  SODEFITEX will establish a
financial and budgetary control unit, with CFDT assistance, to process cost
data and zo strenghthen its capacity for long-range planning and budgeting.
and internal audit. In addition, SODEFITEX' operations monitoring system will
be supported by a separate unit established within its Technical Directorate
to coordinate and systematically analyze the data being collected.
Project Implementation
57.      Project implementation will be the direct responsibility of
SODEFITEX, whose General Manager will act as Project Manager. SODEFITEX'
Technical Director will be responsible for day-to-day project activities,
project monitoring and evaluation, and supervision of components implemented
by other institutions or by contractors.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
58.      Total financing required, net of identifiable taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$47.7 million equivalent (including SODEFITEX capital increase
of US$3.1 million equivalent), of which about US$27.7 million (58 percent) in
foreign costs. Cost estimates are based on prices and quotations at mid-1982
(adjusted to April 1983), and include physical contingencies totalling 6% of
project base costs, and price contingencies on local costs of 10% annually;
and on foreign costs applied as follows:  1983, 8%; 1984, 7.5%; 1985, 7%;
1986-87, 6%. The average unit cost for resident expatriate staff (about 288
man-months) is US$8,400, and for short-term consultants (about 14 man-months)
US$13,600 (all including benef-its and travel allowances).



- 17 -
59.      The proposed financing plan is based on a combination of joint and
parallel arrangements among the external donors as shown in Annex IV, and
reflects their particular preferences on the terms and conditions of their
participation in the project. External sources, including IDA, will provide
US$39.6 million equivalent, or about 83 percent of total project costs net of
taxes. A condition of IDA Credit effectiveness will be the fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to effectiveness of the CCCE and SFD loan agreements and
the FAC grant agreement (Section 6.01(b) of draft DCA).
60.      The Senegalese Government contribution to project costs will be about
US$3.6 million equivalent (8%) to finance related salaries of civil servants,
the cost of local contracted staff employed in the applied research component,
subsidies on inputs, and part of the SODEFITEX capital increase. Beneficia-
ries' financial contributions to be made through down-payments and repayments
of medium-term credits are estimated at US$4.5 million (about 9% of total
project costs).
On-Lending and Administration of Funds
61.      Most of the project costs are directed to general rural development
activities and will not generate any revenue to SODEFITEX or PDESO; Credit
proceeds for these elements will therefore be passed on as a grant. However,
certain expenses totalling about US$2.6 million equivalent (mainly investments
for crop processing and storage) will be ultimately revenue-earning, and the
portion of IDA Credit proceeds for these activities (US$0.9 million equiva-
lent) will therefore be on-lent to SODEFITEX at 11% for 12 years, including a
four-year grace period. These terms are slightly above the inflation rate
(10%) anticipated over the next five years, but still below the current
interest rate (12%) charged by local banks for similar types of lending.
Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government :nd SODEFITEX for
on-lending of IDA funds, will be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(a) of draft DCA).
62.   -  Farmers' repayments against short-term credit for inputs and medium-
term credit for agricultural equipment and collective equipment will be paid
into a revolving fund administered by SODEFITEX on behalf of Government, since
there is currently no viable agricultural credit institution in the project
area. Also, in view of Government's limited capacity to pre-finance PDESO
expenditures reimbursable from IDA and CCCE funds, a revolving fund will be
established in a special account financed jointly by IDA and CCCE (US$0.1
million equivalent each). IDA will replenish its part of the revolving fund
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that related expenditures were eligible
for financing (Schedule 4 of draft DCA).
Procurement
63.      Works:  Contracts for construction of feeder roads in the Kolda and
Velingara districts to be financed by IDA, and construction of tubewells
(totalling US$3.6 million) will be procured following international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts for
construction of feeder roads in the Tambacounda Region (US$4.0 million)
financed by CCCE, and roads in the Kolda and Velingara districts (US$3.2



- 18 -
million) financed by SDF, will be awarded through procedures acceptable to
these agencies. Ccnstruction and rehabilitation of open wells to be financed
by CCCE (US$0.7 million) will be contracted to AFVP. Remaining project works
totalling US$2.2 million (IDA US$1.2 million) consists of minor works and
buildings with an estimated contract size less than US$0.5 million each, and
which are scattered throughout the project area and therefore not likely to
attract foreign bidders. These works will be procured by local competitive
bidding under procedures satisfactory to IDA, and foreign bidders will have
the opportunity to participate for the IDA-financed operations.
64.      Gonds.  Inputs and equipment for financing under ICB (totalling
US$8.1 million-- IDA US$4.1 million), will be grouped to the extent possible
in packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more to be awarded in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Domestically manufactured goods will be allowed a preference
of 15% or the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-
exempt importer would have to pay, whichever is lower. Contracts of less than
US$100,000 but more than US$25,000 (totalling US$1.2 million--IDA US$0.7
million), will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
which are acceptable to IDA. Packages of less than US$25,000 (totalling
US$1.9 million--IDA US$0.9 million) may be procured through negotiated
purchase after solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers.
About US$11.0 million (IDA US$4.3 million) of project expenditures, consisting
mainly of incremental operating and training costs, and local staff salaries
and allowances, do not lend themselves to competitive bidding procedures.
65.      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works over US$200,000
equivalent, and for goods over US$100,000 equivalent, will be subject to prior
IDA review of procurement documentation, resulting in a coverage of about 85%
of the total estimated value of works contracts and aboat 70% of goods
contracts.  The remaining contracts will be subject to random post-review by
IDA after contract award.
66.      Consultants.  IDA will finance the expatriate pastoral specialist (36
man-months) to be assigned to PDESO, the financial manager (36 man-months),
and short-term consultants, all with qualifications and experience and under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. (Section 3.04 of draft DCA and
Section 2.02 of draft PA).
67.      Disbursements.  Estimates are based on disbursement profiles for IDA-
financed agricultural and rural development projects in Senegal. Credit
proceeds will be disbursed over six years under the following categories:
SODEFITEX
(1)   feeder road construction in the Kolda and Velingara districts; 100%
of total expenditures (SDR 2.52 million-US$2.7 million);
(2)   Civil works for improvement of field offices, maintenance facilities
and support to management, village water supply (tubewells), and
livestock development in the Southern Zone; 100% of total
expenditures (SDR 1.44 million-US$1.6 million);



- 19 -
(3)   Agricultural equipment, 40% of total expenditures (SDR 1.13 million-
US$1.2 millinn);
(4)   Equipment for farmer groups (ABPs), 100% of total expenditures (SDR
0.79 million-US$0.8 million);
(5)   Industrial equipment, 100% of total expenditures (SDR 0.75 million-
US$0.8 million);
(6)   Equipment and other investments for crop development, improvement of
field offices, maintenance facilities and support to management,
monitoring and evaluation, and livestock development in the Southern
Zone; 100% of total expenditures (SDR 0.84 million-US$0.9 million);
(7)   Inputs (incremental pesticides), 100% of total expenditures (SDR 1.28
million-US$1.4 million);
(8)   Short-term c-nsultants, studies (except feasibility study for follow-
up project) and audits, 100% of total expenditures (SDR 0.48 million-
US$0.5 million);
(9)   Local staff, operating and training costs, 50% of total expenditures
for all SODEFITEX components except applied research and health (SDR
2.72 million-US$2.95 million);
PDESO
(10)  Expatriate staff, consultants and auditors, civil works and equipment
for PDESO, 100% of total expenditures (SDR 0.33 million-US$0.4
million);
(11)  Livestock inputs and feed for PDESO, 50% of total expenditures (SDR
0.04 million-US$0.04 million);
(12)  Local staff salaries and allowances, operating and training costs for
PDESO, 50% of total expenditures (SDR 0.77 million-US$0.8 million);
(13)  Initial deposit in Special Account for PDESO revolving fund (SDR 0.09
million-US$0.1 million).
(14)  Refunding of PPF, 100% of total expenditures (SDR 0.37 million-US$0.4
million) will remain unallocated.
SDR 1.35 million (US$1.5 million) will remain unallocated.
Withdrawal applications for goods and. services will be fully documented.
Disbursements for salaries and allowances to local staff, operating and
training costs (categories 9 and 13 above) will be made against statements of
expenditures.



- 20 -
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
68.      SODEFITEX and PDESO will keep separate project accounts in accordance
with sound and acceptable accounting principles and practices. In addition,
SODEFITEX will complete the design, installation and operation of a cost
accounting system by the end of the first project year. Audited financial
statements and reports for SODEFITEX and PDESO, as well as semi-annual reports
on physical and financial progress of the project, will be submitted to IDA
for review according to an agreed schedule.  (Sections 4.01 (c) of draft DCA
and 4.02 of draft PA).
SODEFITEX Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery
69.      SODEFITEX activities generate recurrent costs associated with cotton
production, processing and marketing, and the majority of these costs is
normally included in the cotton operating margin (paras. 42-44). Operating
and maintenance costs for the well component and for the primary health
component will be borne by the rural communities. Replenishment of the
initial stock of medicines provided under the project will be done using
receipts from drug sales, but operation of health posts will be supported
through the budget of the Ministry of Health or through the rural communities
themselves. Maintenance of existing and proposed rural roads will be provided
for within the cotton operating margin, since most of the traffic is generated
by cotton activities. For livestock inputs, vaccines for rinderpest and CBPP
will continue to be supplied free of charge, but all other vaccines and drugs
will be sold at marked-up prices averaging 25% over costs initially, and
reviewed and adjusted over the project period.
Project Benefits and Risks
70.      The main quantifiable benefits of the Iroject will be increased
production of cotton for export, of cereals, meat and milk for domestic
consumption, and road user savings resulting from improved feeder roads. At
full project development, annual incremental production is estimated at about
23,000 tons of lint and 13,100 tons of cotton seed, 12,400 tons of maize, and
5,000 tons of millet/sorghum. Incremental cattle production would be about
22,300 head, and incremental milk output available for human consumption would
be about one million liters. Farm families in the project area are generally
poor, and a majority of them have annual per capita incomes below the national
average for rural areas. With the project, about 78,000 farm families with
current annual net incomes per family between US$345 and US$1,150 (in 1982
constant prices) could expect to earn net incomes of about US$800 to US$2,800
by the end of the project (an average increase of well over 200%). Non-
quantifiable benefits are expected to come from the research, maize-
processing, health and water supply components, and from improved financial
and operational management of SODEFITEX.
71.      The economic return on the overall project is estimated at 25%.  In
the unlikely event of a 20% decrease in benefits and 20% increase in costs,
the economic return would fall to 10%. The economic return for the mixed
farming component (excluding livestock) is 25%. For the livestock component,
the estimated economic return is estimated at 22% in the Northern Zone, and



- 21 -
about 51% in the Southern Zone where the main project benefit would be reduced
mortality as a result of systematic vaccination campaigns.
72.      The technical risks associated with project execution are minimal.
Execution of all components is relatively simple, except perhaps for the maize
processing component which, however, represents only about 0.5 percent of
project costs and does not affect project retirns. Market risks for cotton
are acceptable, but could be important for maize where a sustained effort is
required by Government to promote the sale of local maize. The Bank's general
strategy in this respect, to be further pursued under the proposed project, is
to encourage Government to offer some incentives for comsumption of local
maize. The possibility that the total culttvated area for cotton would not
reach the level expected under the project is not considered a large risk
because of the attractiveness of cotton in the project area relative to that
of other crops.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and SODEFITEX, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
74.      Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
Agreement will be: (a) signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Government and SODEFITEX (para. 61); (b) fulfillment of conditions precedent
to effectiveness of the CCCE and Saudi Fund loans and the FAC grant (para.
59); (c) revision of the existing CPSP/SODEFITEX contract (para. 43);
(d) signing of an agreement betweed SODEFITEX and DSPA defining responsibili-
ties for implementation of the Southern Zone livestock component (para. 49);
(e) full settlement of Government and CPSP arrears with SODEFITEX (para. 42);
and (f) official establishment of farmer groups as autonomous entities with
capacity to borrow (para. 50).
75.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
76.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 11, 1983



- 22-                                      Annex I
TAME SA
SEECaL - SoCIAL IEDIC&TORS DMA  SMEET
SE5EGCh                      RFRECE  ROr   (EISIED   AVE9AGES
AREA (THOLSD SC      )                                                         -  ST' RCE  ESTDIATX)
'ZUML           I 1WPb.2                            WST RECENr         MIDDLE h Im nm                   XC8
AGCRICLTURAL    [09.0              1960 lb   1970 lb ESTIHATE lb  AFRICA 50W;I OF SAL    XNm AFXC A MISSILE EA
CSP PER CAPITA CUSS                210.0       260.0    450.0                1053.2                  1253.6
tNSERC COSSTMPTIOS PER CAPITA
(KILWGRAS OF COAL ZKUJLVALEST)    116.1      116.6    253.1                610.1                   713.5
PbPATIOt AID riTAL SAnSnCS
OPiULATIOS. XIC-YEAR (YTOcsS) 3076.0        4267.0   5661S0
!R3A3 POPLATION (PERCENT OF TOTA) 22_6        23.7      25.4                2E.3                   47.3
POPMLATION PROJECIONS
nPCzarnos iS YEA0 :i)Oo (MLLrQSS)                     10.l 
STATAION&Y POPMATIz: OIULLIOSS)                       34.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPLATION IS REACED                 2135
POPGI.TIOS DESSITY
PER sq. DI.                      15.7       21.7      28.1                54.7                    35.8
PER SQ. Dt. AGXICCLTVRAL LASD    31.0       40.8      50.6               129.9                   *20.9
POPLLA;TIOS AGE STRCTIME (PERCEM
0-1I' ns.-                       42.7       4Z.9      44.7                46.0                    4.3
15-" YRS.                         54.3       53.2      52.5                51.1                    52.4
o5 YKS. ASD ABOVE                 3.0         2.9       2.8                 2.8                     3.3
POPULATIUS G&-RH RATE (PERCErT)
sinAL                            1.9         3.3       2.8                 2.8                    2.8
L-BAN                             2.4        3.7       3.5                 5.2                     4.6
CHRDE HIRTH RATE (PEP TlHOSAND)    47.9       46.8      47.8                41.2                   41.2
CRL11 DEAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.5       23.2      21.3                15.7                    12.2
GROSS REPR=OOCT7uS RATE            3.2         3.2       3.2                 3.2                     Z.9
EA.-SILY r..niasc
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOLSASDS)     ..
USERS (PF.RCE     . F  ORlED  ) .. .. *-   *-E-
FOOD AMD L-'NITIOS
LWDEX OPFOOD FRODUCTIONK
PEA CAPITA (196421-100)         125.0       83.0      86.0                90.7                   100.4
PER CAPI,A SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIR0E-STS)                 109.5       98.6      94.8/c              93.9                   108.5
PROTEISS (CLA.S PEr. DAY)        73.2       66.2      63. .;              54.3                    71.9
oF WUTCH ASLAL: AND PELSE      22.5       20.8      18.6/c               17.0                   18-0
}iLD (AGCES 1-4) )IRTALIrY 3      41.8        36.8      31.8                23.9                    15.1
EEALrd
L FEXPEcrANscy AT BIRrH (YEARS)   37.2        40.3      43.2                51.0                   56.9
LNIFA.T 'U)RTALSTY RATE (PER
.20U1SD)                          181.7      164.4    146.8                118.5                   104.3
ACCESS TO SAFWE 'ATR (PERCEsT OF
POPLlATIIJ )
TUTAL                              ..         ..      37.0/d                ..                    5.1
URBAN                                                 68.0/d                ..                    83.1
SLsAL                             ..         ..      z3.oT                 ..                    39.8
ACCESS Ta EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULATION)
ToTAL                              ..
LRBAS                              ..         ..
.RINA                              ....                 ....
POPLLATION PER PHYSICI5N        2i971.4    16224.3  15709.6/             14185.2                  4015.5
POPULATION PEER NURSISC PERSON    2839.5/c   1888.1   1392.5s7            2213.2                  1802.2
POPULArIoN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAAL                          735.0      790.3    900.5/c             1036.4                   641.7
LURAN                           391.3/f    346.5    422.0o7              630.8                   538.3
RURAL                          1812.47T    1311.9   1432.97T            3678.6                  2403.3
ADISSIO:S PER HOSPITAL BED           ..       22.2      29.27c                ..                    25.5
Hol.USI:sC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHULD
TOTAL                              ..                   .                    ..
URBAN                             7..t
LS7hZ                             ,../                  .                    ..
RURAL                              --        oO.0        -                   ..
ArRAGE S;IBER OF PERSONS PER RODt
TOTAL                             I.5/h       .
URBAN                              ..
RURaL                              .
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
ToTL.
LRIAS                              ..         .         .
KURAL                             ..



-23-                                 Annex I
TAE 3A
SEUgGIrElxAL  ZIWZCAMORS DATA E
StCA.                       tzErEcE  Rou,S (uCRED a
NM  RECEn ESTMTEY-
NM5 REC            MIE DCQE                MIDLE IsCo(
160 lb   170 lb ESTIMATE /b  AICA, ROUM OF SAM   30RT3 AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
ECuCAcn
AJONSTED EOLLMEST RATIOS
PRIMAR:    TOTAL               27.0        38.0     2.0 -3.3                                  85.7
MALE               36.0        47.0     51.0                96.1                  104.3
PaE                 17.O       30.0     34.0                80.4                   72.0
SEC-IM&T   TOTASL                3.0        9.0     10.v:a              15.3                   39.7
HALL                *.0        13.0     14.0(1              19.4                   49.3
FEAL                2.0         5.0      6.Ofl              11.3                   29.0
VOCATioNAL ENRL. (: or SECORDAX) Z3.1         9.2       ..                 4.7                   10.1
PUflL-DQCUEI RATIO
1A3AR1                          43.2/f     45.0     42.3/c              38.6                   34.1
stEcDID                         34.0       34.3     Z1.077              23.4                   23.7
ADULT LITACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.6/1     10.0     1W.0/c              35.6                   43.3
wUSMIIT..N
PASSENUER CA;S PlEIR TOSAND
PoPULATIOs                       6.5        9.0      9.2/k              31.9                   17.8
RLDIO RECEIVERS FP  THOUSAND
IPOMATIN                        40.6       62.6     54.4                71.6                  131.3
TV lBECEIVES MER THOUSAND
PPULAIONS                         ..        0.3      0.4                17.9                   ".1
rWSAPE  CD&ILX GENERAL
MNUPEST) CRA-LXrOS PER
TOUSND POPULATION                 6.5         4.7      4.5                13.1                   31.5
CINEx ASXZAL ATEArE PER CAPrI   ..             ..      0.7/d               0.6                    1.7
XI0 FORCE3
ILf. LABOR FORCE (THCOUSAiM)    1424.0     1860.3   2311.2
IPJALE cPErCENT)                39.3       39.0     38.4                36.5                   10.6
AGR'UYIRS (PERCENT)             84.0       80.0     76.0                56.5                   42.4
IlUS=  CFEPCEST)                5.0        7.0     10.0                17.7                   27.8
IAICIPATXOS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            "6.3        *3.6     60.8                37.0                   26.0
NMAL                             56.3        53.7     50.6                *6.9                  "6.2
PERALE                           36.4        33.7     31.0                27.2                    5.6
ECO8IaC DEPESDENCY RATIO            1.0         1.1      1.2                 1.3                    1.9
xmW   viDIsTRImJTIOS
LRCP.  OF PrIvxATE ImI'
RECIVED bY
IGHEST S PERCENT OF HWSEHOLDS  36.8.1
HIGHEST 20 PiEKERr OF HGISEHODD  62.5/1      .  
OUWEST 20 PERCEST CF hRMSEMOLOS   3.:211.
UW 4EST 40 PERdSS OF HOSEI       9.4C1       ..       ...
POVErTY TARGET CROLC3
ESTIKATED ABSOME -PVUERTY ZMCOIE
lEVEL CUSS PER CAptrA)
WUIA                             ..          ..       ..               507.0                  279.2
RURAL                             ..         ..     82.0               200.6                  178.6
ZSTDL4AED RELATIVE POCETY zmccax
LVE.L CUSS PER CAPITA)
RA                                ..         ..    194.0               S23.9                  603.6
RUlAL                             ..         ..       ..               203.6                  265.6
ESTMATED POPULATION  E' ABSOLETE
_               lOVEiRY INCOME LEML (PERCENTr)
WA                                ..         ..       ..                  ..                   22.1
RURAL                             .          .        ..                  ..                   30.9
not available
Not appicable.
NOTES
/a  The grwup avergee for each .ndiator are populaclon-wight-d aritcbieLc mass. Coverage of countrSea
mong the indiestots depends v. availability of data and in not unafors.
tb  Uhess ocerteds noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. betwan 1969
and 1971; and for lMoat Recent Estqate, betwees 1976 and 1980.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; le 1963; If 1962: L& 1973; th 1955; /t African population only: , 1975;
/k 1974  /1 PopuLatlCon.
May. 19L8



- 24 -                                                                       Annex I
WUV tITUIO  OF SOCIAL mIICAiOS
at   alhUghb the data are dea-  fre  wat. or-orol leggd the  -t. anbrttiea. telit.. 10 ahaalt ala he eats tht they  ,, -   ho Lote-
-tatlocal   .a.ablr boo ao  of the Ito  at et-dedaadeili    -d cot.adby dlffeeoa  Zc-itlie J. CeLl-Etit  tie data.  Th. daaat.- .e
thln. oo.cL tdecttad.ataat.calaettd.otceatrm arlon                                              dttf-nta  bot-n  ce.ot-e.
lb. tatcaac  -tw   t  [II te   eacoae  cn  at the Rcj-c tCnan   -d () a  -o    la   o    otchoer.  -fla5  oaaa  ,tha th  -ant  no
of  Ia  obortraoet  I-opt tar     tb laten    011 ttaoet   se          o.. ,ttdtl  lace. X-rt A.rI.. oat Riddle ta.t0 to choto  heoa     of atanor
Mo tea   stEam  caecln a-c he-cttad-t.   olto  .cotere of o  itadlo-e  tof - . aaor.         -ee   ora  ore- -et  t          helI  c -watla  the  o ...o
ARA    teaa _ q.&o CPaeoittict-,Cear toarltal ted.    -                                                               toal.otL.. o  re b. -  opLata   ttl
Toal- Yt  anrt. at ataconlalm Led at.  and colaS   ao; 1979 data                      ara. o  r--el  iltid    by their teopeott   e..r-    borla  hL
eatci-aa "-Lctt  at ealotorlae  tea  teetitil  o- pttnealy                         =ellblr L. ptAlot -At pILtt  d-otel -d eettllethtptalet tR-
tot  or. paoan. azte  ad kitche. ea.         to  i  ie.:ee; 1979 taahbLl-ttto  Cotoore   N.potle o. -   -cah-ttoo  oenoel  etaffta
htatII  o        hyllan F. fobhluiafe poridLag rolartpllpot0
cmt P2X Coacra (tot) - Car " rat capita oaiete -a rnrr Wt "---- pIo..I-                      d-ttcoae-   talood    oa  hoe-.I           n. h-.rc  t.nlt  health
t.ola-t  by ta  coteato  athed -   oeld taak hoo (197.840 baae); 199.                     addIra  toe.a   petotiy  -ft td hr a phyatci  (hoc by
EnESV  COScUflm:0 rt  CA,??A - A-o! coafca   of coaoL1 a-en  (Coal                           float roea-e  erha  heptaatalde            .  Italaltea  lolt-le.
act  cotl..pecolon.  oooal  te  ol  ydr-. aeoaa  to  aetate  co-                oa  .0. -  eltea. -ta  or  totl   attle  - oto att.1 oa  ttettoy
ttlfty  tohiliraof oaloineolotP- caIt; 1120. 1970. We (079                      t         Slra    peotaLtae  hopltolt are matldd ale ado  totl
eat.-                                                              Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atattoc   ar  ..-Iie Sod - Total l on . o   dot-o-tn  to or dlacha.r
raper~ft0doa XI VITAL s-raruliCS
rota;PotcCtooo.toOt-eer *bae.aoode)- he  f Jolt LI 95. t1ll0, ad 1t60      rocot
tato.                                                          Lw.... SI.. af bacoehald t.or.ota ret haaheldft.   - tal.aboc an  tta-
aft!fetot ea IIt i   at.aba  an. egeffec  -oWct-hllty at dae                  ad their oslo atot-  A htatdt or ledge  eap at ayae   he tetladd 1a
%aa  tairo; .t0  19)0. ad 1900 data                                            the Icatohd tot ctalalPt.eae.
Poaltlo  Prote- boa-,etWi .a                                                                             f ttoo  prtoo  - total -wh-, ad ranut -  -nor  .
Pralclo  La  af  !00  - Ctrt-   Vpopnicia  prjtts   tehtd an1160                   he. at pa.perontoIL etb-o  ad rota  aCcopia  tanoeot
Projoticopataoto   r atailt  taco.  -orIo.  clot lacLtIc                                                                                            -d..  aoctt pra
lee,    - t.... It-otel eoatt   c  oC o 01 7.1 wart-  Tb1. eaa-Caoeatlo   dlleP_t.ltccly..llo   Otm -   teti
ata. tt frtlzcorat  al. hro  hre  toe!.aaaolt  LoIonto        f ttal  araa.ad  ote  dalllanChoprt-tlw
7tac fca     hla 10 achio-4 anir ater k-t1t.llo     dat?ta  t                   prloar  arob-ace v-eLact e -a-aly tItttod- chtldr.  U..4 c-fl
Lt tparo  tw  of otL- ott                          =.rdoto  tt,f   ah  I-tata   raehta  att-a ltto   ostha ofrtae.cal; for
-t lote  Cotheloo. c  th  eroec-d thatattrlotto  a!tepelt.                          lt         ot.PLa.  bhe?- oraoa   he offIcIa  atha  ea.
:-Wa,M oa.9r   d-1-.~ la-te-.' elc cr1h P-.1.C.
roatotl lt-    Chi0ocldt   cwttaol-loa  lda                                 ra atoa-ottt t arodlar y -E baths.lb
ad  27  daleAd. pII-tea ther ratio                                                         -     Ltert  ad-atcanda   - Total ctd dt  -aoe -to)
l.talto f91-a" 19)-0-t.10-.      ad-w 1.9C-C7,0---83.                                                                II        -    , .
Patoot Lo iroata  Rat fr.oaot  - otao- Motel rapt  tale   of v0  pc-        Camt?0
eotC.et-h   10_.0. IttO.P- ted- ladO dta-                                                olWita R-eo-oadirlaa)Al   yw                                       f.1.1
Croat heah hae a1..-tott A-      d?  oath  retsh           IIIoaa    of oI L.eOSa   Wecotrdrt-lee  th -adeo.?tton                 l tpooW. 1    fa ratio
t-oratt co. Itll.;~t Lt d10) date                                                 hrbtao   da0.arl  a    perilaatad o               ratltln  a-~l.a.   n
a!bt%rr'o,   otr  04raece   f alolfty   lthSeat..                                      aorleoi  pert_oa.dto..atoo  ocldo  aollotae  It teela
pea 100 OTTIC,,,,IIOS                                                                to 0ho  t-daPlO.Po.'-I Cl     A- t It  rrod r  at UPI o f- tar c .. a    Cno.  - 
of rod todttloo...eoc.a99rri .             ade_ . of;  caIt  ae.o            Claeoetan-I atod-ott    aiatrtar   oda  h   ero
Ct-.teia -"cr -hea.   CodItto  coc prioy-.I           dt.I.t. aatao                 a     bIeat
toccod of  gactodalc  art  ubItant tatat -torlot  (es. cfe  aSAO  PI
tattoaloa.!  rodte  crcotv~ao;191-I.1977. -1 1980 data.                  Total Lab. Port  taoae.     teottl   tltrtt..lbdo
per  ay.   tailtlt ..pitesr5rl   loaotl  prdot..9wriOtW!toaat;lt. 11112 at1900 ftac.
oolata.  d -lac.tlttach    to  topdo e-aL.d    ta   a.tS,ta.lo                                    )-Va.  lbor forea   eteas   fttlt.tr fode
orcaeeo  ctn.odbyPr  Soo  e pyaolaaa?cot.fe  cstac!-llhca tbereoye  of tco  -a` or;110.01   t  1160Lae
Pr-  wltttoryo oforotl  Ara- ro- tao) - Peet  catten  of W,r capita             Parclalltlt  IPrt,-t  - oa.oIa   d(i    P.arI.lctrao  or
tot  oetc o  foo  pe ta.  to   am, rf food 1. defiand atae.  0-elrte  anrtwct   ttel   o..tdhl  lbrfre
olort..a   tar0   fttlcoo.  et day ad 77  ar-  of alool ad                       19.  112710.  rdIt  aa.Te   t  bod-t0a  rt  tnta   oo
-.le  ttLt. of .Mch It A b     ba.ehea.dh at.ea  prcea    .hoea...ad-                cofjLectlt  C_a-a.ofo        of the ppteI-lo- ad los clot tred. A
ta.t. l-over    thach r o  tO Al-  of -oalpolt P-     ad 70 or    ffeeca                             r   r    olto-    ttarof
oeol ertot  a   taetae0c  the acrId. pr-rod by P.0 A   toTidtetl   to.eo  la.   bli  a pecatoad-t 1I and Si ad  t
rctef  rog alalo-d va.e  to ain  ver daY. 1901-S5. 10M ad 1977 dec..            bIcmm )IS-iXISriT?w
CIL d~ fato1catot  tote (pa  taood I     .)  A-co. deth. ret cbaood to                 E'tett  a              Ir---oaotn  (-o.h caLo. a   IS   A--2eccn  tay tic
oWco   -   ec,0   bla  to chIt ego scoop, tr wo  dewitploo ca--                         S retct. ftcoeo  20 pet.!           --ora  zt pecat. ate poto   40 eo,C-n
-tLet data dented fran t              Met Ol.;1 . 1970 ad 1960 data.                    at huteblda
Life oecot at ttth  Aocor-b             - Aeos o .r o  ye-  of lIfe raotooo             lb  fa-Laot  t  a.   r  ayart.aoateta   otc  It-I.
Ioa   healotoero tcotaoj -l0oal  eato a  toat  -ad.1otto                                 eltealo    tet  le'               snte  "5" ret CarIta  - ata  -ta  -cta  -
Ooco  t SteMae  trcar a peplatan - tatl  oa   drt?--                                   oa=trltlooal-lR.I."-qoac  tIer pIt tanialSS-C- n-od  otaentt  to tot
entr tti atchat I ro  preaotd herebo.... .perfla. .5   attyele  ot                   Otto?' toolo..   pa-Y l s lai  . to-third at  -wa  er capit
reCoantage .  thaI. r.p.aettr  roproiat-e   It a ceba   -. opobll                       per..L taa   of the Cttoy.  Crbta levo? to delect I ran the cor
foottat  oe ocadpaat l-tete  at  -  than 200 eae. fre  a heoa nay he                    lere  0th adjoa-ca   for hljut  oC_  of lirios to orb..ae.
t.-onah?  _cea n..ld iwly  btha  the lo ct   tsa.b   at the h.acohld                    ado=l-Pnoco   ooal  (a .aM                       .Lea). o r- aal,t
fo co  aloo toopta a dtstoaettat.  Poe oftE  de   1. f-thto the
-t-.flto n.c.r aend        P.--
pofcaatage  of thi., rtp-tctle  papLctl-.  tate    diapoai na   atS
the nelecia  ad daper.o. coO - .ia-  toaa . a  W             attg
a  oe-tfby anterf-hen  ola- at ehe a- af  pit p.Lo.1  ad elde
Pt.c"tlt I    la!m. IWpna"tolaa dedadb BP     t at wral:1te?. ubyl-                                                     ..at  aod Bacial Data, lci1ot,
as   a M   ta-Is attestmmos. otolan  o'rosd, pratlei  RwmA- aod



'l.n0ALx.eCA9lfllrel INflTATOR.R
PopulaFtiont 9,864  (tid-lqrn * thoushia)
rOiP per c.apita  tIso00 (I qrn )
Anount
(million                                                                      Ant)ual growth rAteo       a
Tnidlcator                  at cnirren&t priceos                            Actiinl                                             Prol   1 lnary                                    Projected
I no                              .                                       ........-............                                    .
.1        ..9         -76  1-77       .197q          19791        1990          1981          1992          19R3        1984         1S95
NATIONAL Ar.0lNlllT9
0roa to Dmottic Product n/                   !744                  7,n)          7.0           9S.       -1.9            5.5        -7.2           -3.9          10.6,          4.6         3-3          3-7
AArloultire                              623                    9-2 M.5                    6.0      -21.            16.6         -9.2           -5.1         22.5           3.2          4.4         4.8
Indunftry                                6139                   g.1          7.5         t21.          7.2           2.3        -14.5           -3.5          9.7           5.0         4.6          4.0
S9rvicea                                 1492                   6. 7         7.3          -1.6       -4-9            2.3         -6.3           -4.n          6.5           5.5          2.6         3.e
Conaunmption                                2R3                    6.5            . ?.4        Q.O        1.9            2.9        -n.n           -1.9           1.3          3.1          2.0          1.4
Gross ti,edatsenln                           986                 -28.6          18.0         -0.i         8.8           13.6       -34.6           15.1          20,0          5.0          5-5         6.0
'xportd of 1PS11                             7AS                  12.0          24.9         28.        -30.4           24.7       -29.0           -9.3          30.?          5.9          2.0          1.5
I1mporte  of 8118                           12hS                  .1.2          21.7         36.2       -11.4           15.5       -21.1            3.5           4.1          2.4         -1.3         0.5
nroa. Domestic S avings                     -q4.2                -24.1         111.6        -34.0       -73-5           60.6            -          23.2             -         75.s            -            -
PRI O E
nWP 8oflqtor (107q *  MM                                           a2.1         ¶6. f        n7.q        03.6            100       112.0          127.0         136.4        149.5        162.0       175.0
Pvchhai4e Rate (CUS.tl         )                                 214.3         219.0        245.7       225.6         212.7        211.3          272.0        329.0         355.0
.9hmre of 01)P at WRprket Prices (g)                              AveraRe Anuvaol. T:ioroaae (g)
(at current pricas)                                           (at cor.4rit prlon)
17,n         1075          19870      1q5                iqia-1975              1975-19S0           1980-1985
roae tDomestiv Prodliact                                         lon.          I 170        I           100,0                 2.3                     .9                  3.6
A triculture                                                  24.0          30.2          22.7       22.n0                 31                     -.4                 5,6
Tnduatry                                                      25.5          24.n          25.1       26.4                  3.9                    2.5                 3.8
Othor                                                          sn.s         49.8          52.?       51.6                  1.3                    1.1                 2.9
n^1uaption                                                        80q.0         qo.0        103.4        93.0                 1.9                    4.0                  1.2
flroa Tnveatment                                                  16.0          18s,0        14.1        20.0                 2.n                   -1.4                 10.2
Riports (0419)                                                    27.n          3A.0         2S.6       2z.0                 1.3                     .9                  5.3
Tmportd 1flI78)                                                  3P.n          42.0         46.1        36.0                   ,'                   8,0                  2.2
froda Doma,tic9c Sav9litgA                                        11.3          12.,         -0.4        12.0                 S.s                     . .
PTIRLI,C 914ANIR b/                                               FY76          7Y77         VY78       FPY7q          FY90           FY811        'Y82
(it, billion CPA frrnwa,
n!urrent Revofniuo                                            77.1          q1.7          97.1      107.8          134.1          125.5        147.2
rurrenzt r:pen.anitroa                                         77.2         83.1          q4.1      101.4          131.           13q.6        159.5
Surplus (') or Deft.it (-3                                    -I.            e.f6          3.0        6.1            ?.3          -14 1         .q.4
ot pttal ' pe.l1dtu re                                         14.0         21,6           9.5       12,S           13.2          2 ,%/          5.4                                                      N
'Iarolus (4  or Dlef Llt (-3                                 -15.0         -19.n          -6.5       -6.4          -1n.9         -35.4         -13.9
ao At narlekt orices
b/ relltrfl povornnoment only, ealulides optert.tatnl.
cJ rtcludea  CFAPF 8.8 billion for settlement of 9th piail operntions.



RRMenAL - RtTFRRPAL TRADR
Popialattomt s,164  (Mti-¶01, thouaiands)
(IlP per oapitrta  'JS5t00 (1001)
Anou4al Oro7th  l,seo  (1) at OoGsatarnt PrtLuca
..................................................................................... .._ ................................................................
Amoult                                  Aotual                                           Prelimtnary                               Projootiao
Indicator                                      (million 119S  at           ...................................                .....................................              ---------------------
current prlceal           197r)         s1r6        1977         197R        1V70          11   19       1gnl        1M2                    19153
RTTRhNAL TRAIS
..............
Rerohmndide X'.portd                                 492                  21.0         9 4.6         6.0        -42.4         42.3        -1'.5        -12.q         48.3                   6.1
Prillnmry                                         317                 IA.0         17.n          0.8        -44.0         46.4        -33.6        -15.4         70.8                   6.7
1'etrgjloum                                        A?                 -4.3        -27.3         A7.5         70.6         43.3         25.-          4.5         -1.7                  -2.6
ntheri                                            AR                 -1 .6;        19.1         19.9        -11.0         11.9        -44.5        -15.6         11.3                   8.9
rerchon1taoe tporti                                  009)                  2.3         25.8          3.6         -4-7          .5s        -21.5          1.5          4.8                   3-0
700d                                             210                 -23.0         41.5          7.6         -2.3         19.0        -15.3         24.5         -2.8                  10.2
Petroletir                                        275                  4.2          4.4         12.01        13.1         -9.1         21.8         -2.2         17.4                  -5.3
Wachinery en1 FquLment                           157                -13.0         12.1         19.4        -2q.7          9.1        -38.1         -3.4          5,3                   4-5
Othore                                            187                 13.2         28.1         i4.5         -9.2         -5.9        -20.8         -7.1          3.1                   2.3
PR tOS
P.Tport Price Index (1979 * 100)                                            8q           q8           q6           95          100          116          143          142                   153
Import Price Index (19010 * 100)                                            87         100            90           q1          100          119          139          153                  164
Terma of Trado TndeT (1979   100)                                          102           89          106          104          100           97          103           03                   93
Cotmpoattion of WerohaMnteo  Trade ( ¶                                               Average Annual tincrenae (S
(It ourrent pricea)                                                            (at conatant priced)
MS75                1980               1993                     1975-19M                                              1980-1983
fixportu                                                                  11M.0               100.0              10(.0                            -   .~1                                            11
primary                                                                70.5                64.4               72.0                             .3                                               ¶5.5
Petroleum                                                               7.0                17.7               11.5                           14.5                                                 .9
ntnat-                                                                 22.5                17.7               14.5                           -1.9
rmports                                                                  100.0               10.0 n.            j100.05                                                                             3.1
Iratod                                                                 21.2               z2.0                22.0                            2.3                                               10.0
Petroleuja                                                             12.0                27.5               27.8                           18.5                                                2.8
1aechinery and Rquiptent                                               18.4                15.7               16.2                            5.4                                                2.2
Others                                                                 46.4                3SA                34.0                            3.1 ..
Share of Trade with                                   9hore of Trade With                                  9hare of Trade with
Induletrial Countries (t)                             Developing Countritea (1)                       Capitanl Surpluts Oil WXp'::g-rd  (I)
_ ___...................... ..................          ....................................   _               _........ .. ..................
1070           1475          1 980        191           1970          1975        l1           1901         1970          1975         1980          1981
DIRRCP.ION OF TRAMR
..............
xportes                                                    --            66.4           so.4         47.1           --           20.0         96.4        16.2          ..            ..           2.5            2.9
Imports                                                    --            67.1          60.6         68.4            --           11.5         18.7        15.8          --           4.1          1.0           12.9
I                                                                                                               It



HP4RAI. - qA[,AllR OF 'PAYMWIVI'r, 3:4'FRIll, CArtTA1l AIID nRnT
t12Iwtj l')n.S at uua.rront pr1ieo)
Pr.p,.1Ath I,             i S flf1  t¶..td-10131 ,  h il,)
/I'IP per a.iptta:   7340 nstnr   055')
__. __.. .. ...........___._. __... ...     ._. _.. ....... ... .... . .... .. .. ._....... ._. .. ...    . . ... ... . ...... .
rr.4 :oat.,ier1076                                                                     1977          I17n              1 W7I 1OWm                   I)9e              10C2                  1913
t,AIICM  nF PAYMR9TF
mxpjrh,. of 0oo,di                                                         5RI.'7          661,1         44,1.7           62r.2          401i.7          433.2            414.1                52:.5
Im oport  of flooda                                                        (Jr,(,         77?.R          7,1.7           1054.'          999,6           117.9           nfn.0                 879.7
3crvieo.n  0i,0t                                                           -Si1, -s0 , f                 -17.3             *84. 7        .11.11        -110.3           -1 S4.4                -191.1
lot TranrrtJrs                                                              06,.7          507.R         1.2'1.5           1'5.1         171.4           1s3.5            I ?.13               172.7
n"Urre0x  Aocom.t llalniieo                                                -91.f h   .     _ni             .?n,          .16 .qA          1 -41s.n     -4"7.,1          . t7S.                 -4n=,, 
Private Dlreut lirmate,is,t                                                 '5.U 5'.2                      IM.              10.9          fl4.?           .tl.6            sn.7                 4.
tPubl1rc y1,1 Lumwal  r0t)                                                   ,n,            I.1          ISS,I            llS.?          I"t            21fi.7            20'?.5 3l
n I ahllrsmim ts                                                                       100on.5       224,1            223.7          ?4'.5           200.9            s3s.6 fi             ' .9
Repptymbd /                                                                             3r.--    5.1   601.0           '79. 5        122.9            S4.?            131.1                1113.6
n)tnier  ArittAll4. '4?,q                                                                                   R.$               914.5                       14A.5            -..4                *S7.7
ltnn ftr  In rel orvetl                                                       1              0.0           '51.1           121.7         1117.0          14.5             140.?                ?44.q
'lot fiorelpn  nLijata (inc.1  Ii"')                                       -.11 0          .135.         171.4           .15.0         -316.1          .463.5           -50.i                    --
17    Incime4.lo  err2rW- n,.d oi. lIonni
PX    4*ote  Lfti   MiTsurea 11:41rnte increnaaa i,l          miar.lrvoa.
R P A R5          '6.         1_977           1973             1970)         1)810           1g1l            19q2                 1935
I155F'R'AI. eAPT'!'&T, A'll' 0r;RT
0onr.e',olornI1  Lot..l                                  1. 1           2'.1            71.0           541.7             i* .Ft       r9,5. IR5 .                   140A                161.4
PAtO                                                 1I.A             0.6           14.9           1p,n             I1q.          I?.S            1S7.2          44.9                61.l
IPY.e                                               n7,?                      ?0.2                n,n ?  3.         6.7          1"7            6n.,            26.5                Ill.r,
IPA                                                 11.1            I'.9             7, I           9.7             1 ,2 1P.0                     62.0           44'..               2A.'
ntnor                                                 fi.5            n.7           1.1.          S32.?             22.4          4).0            2S.3            74.5               34.4
slor.-eo.c^.ltil LsIolau                          1$.n            fin,t          fio).2        l firl.4         19M.          714.7           III.q           14S.S               14J.n
nEt~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.I                                 11AA                         P.               410.5         !72,            s s, .          42.9                61 ,r
IRRD30                                                7.1            4.7           1.M             A.4             11.0          17.9            21.q           2'.S9                11.6
Other Stlutliatoral                                   I.3             n.n            0.              ?.;r,           1.9            11.6          9.4            25,7                20.9
l'rivate                                            33.n0            i?.7           4?.2         1 P,9             103.6         In0.9           '21.5            47.5               4?.4
Fxtemnil rNebt
Debt Otatmta.4t.1.3, nwld 0lh.lr.od                    76r.6           '151.4          421.3        6.14.4           79" 5          '957.4        1175.5          1394.9              1597.'
Ofr,lcnl ,ioiurcea                                 164-1.6         17.             249.4         349.5            464.4          617,8          A75.4         111.7              1 320.0
Privfte aouire2on                                   151.           165.09          I17.          264.9             351.1         150.6          5100.1          291.1               271.0
lnmiLburmejd Debt                                      .V7.9           275.7           401.?          f69n.4          533.1          f74.0           714.0          7n.73               024.0
Oebot TOevtao
Total .0orv1co Pnymental/                                9.1            42.             nf6.5          00.5            122.6         1 13.0          101.0            131.1             122.9
Interont                                            18.5            l.2             ?n70.         130.5             44.1          S7.0            43.            27.1                60.10
Paymert   na 't  xportd                                   $.7             6i.2           6.fi         IS.?             I15.0          21.?            14.5.            7,0.n_             16..
AversRe Sntur1ty  oli 3low Losilsa  (4)                     21.1            1q.2            11.2           12.9             2n.s           n.n             n.o           I.                   -.
ofrtctal                                                12.2            2'.ft           1.1            21.2             '5.5            --             --              --                  --
Private                                                   .4             6.2            6f 6.7                          6.S           -                       --                          - 
*A¶ g oi' Debt Outatrln,11- 
.313 !v     ' r M05 RCel:t
lœnturit,y :triiatuire gr Tlebt nutstrilb4ty^g
Pr1rnoipn1  duo wlthin, ' vottr,                                                                                                           I0.1
Prin-Ipn1  4iue wlthiu  20 voora                                                                                                          56i* 
Inter.)at 2tn.otur,, Sr nobt Outdtwt.lirg
Ilter' i't 42' vi thtI. S y3lr3I A1.6
Ves' AIM{.:^ rteRl,t



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF WORLD BANE: OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount, less cancellation
LoanJCredit                                                             (us$ Million)
Number       Year    Borrower        Purpose                    Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Eight Loans 1/ and seventeen Credits fully disbursed              33.2    110.7
530-SE         1975    Senegal      Education II                           15.0          2.29
633-SE         1976    Senegal      Eastern Senegal Livestock               4.2          0.16
1405-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Dakar Fishing Port            6.0                   0.66
1412-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Petite C8te Tourism           8.0                    2.50
1413-SE        1977    Senegal      Petite C8te Tourism            5.6                   1.77
775-S3         1978    Senegal      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation                20.0          3.60
1518-SE        1978    RCFS         Railways III                  11.0                   1.59
1665-SE        1979    Senegal      Second Airport                7.0                    3.00
S-23-SE        1979    Senegal      Water Supply Eng. & T.A.                2.5          0.85
908-SE         1979    Senegal      Education III                          22.0         12.17
991-SE         1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations                 11.0          8.63
993-SE         1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                         28.0         13.24
1310-SE        1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                10.0                  li;.O0
S-26-SE        1980    Senegal      Power Eng. and T.A.                     3.3          2.03
1931-SE        1980    Senegal      Structural Adjustment        30.0                   16.65
1061-SE        1981    Senegal      Technical Assistance                    4.40 2/      3.33
1973-SE        1981    SOFISEDIT   Investment Promotion           6.5                    6.03
1136-SE        1981    Senegal      Investment Promotion                    2.27 2/      1.78
2025-SE        1981    SEFICS       Rail Transport                19.3                  19.30
1103-SE        1981    Senegal      Forestry                                7.87 2/     7.54
1176-SE        1981    Senegal      Agric. Research                        18.23 2/    18.23
1310-SE        1982    Senegal      Rural Hfealth 3/                       15.32 21    15.32
1323-SE        1982    Senegal      Petroleum Exploration                   9.602/       9.60
Total                                   155.80   274.39       160.27
of which has been repaid              15.69      1.85
Total now outstanding                   140.11   272.54
Amount sold                    3.4
of which has been repaid   3.2         0.20      -                  t
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/       139.91   272.54
Total undisbursed                        61.50    98.77       160.27
1/  A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled
on M4arch 25, 1971.
2/  Computed at the March 31, 1983, rate of SDR = 1.07867 USS.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. Statement of IFC Inrestments (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal          Obligor          Type of Business        Loan  Investment  Total
1967     Societe Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant         2.45     1.01       3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)    BUD Senegal S. A.
1973)                            Vegetable Export         _       0.84       0.84
1976)
1974     SOFISEDIT               Development
Finance Company         -        0.24      0.24
1980     Banque de l'Habitat-   Money and Capital
du Senegal, S.A.       Market                   -        0.47      0.47
1980     Societe Hotelier6
du Barachois, S.A.     Tourism                 3.00       -        3.00
1982     Industrie Chimique
du Senegal             Fertilizer             25.00               25.00
Total Gross Commitments                       30.45      2.56     33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                            2.45     1.05      3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC             28.00      1.51     29.51
Undisbursed Balance                           24.00      0.00     24.00



-  30  -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 530            Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 22, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1983, to allow
for project completion and full disbursement. T1be Government has decided,
with the Bank's agreement, to reduce the number o-f experimental rural youth
edacation centers. The revised construction program has been completed and
all equipment delivered. The Industrial Training and Upgrading Center and the
science and technology centers are operating satisfactorily. The financial
situation has improved, following the increased value of the US Dollar
vis-i-vis the CFA Franc. Implementation of the decision to build and equip a
maintenance unit for the science centers and to complete the Merchant Maraine
School, which was eliminated in 1979 to allow for rate exchange losses, is now
in piogress. The project is efficiently managed.
Cr. 633            Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. About
95% of parallel financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. The
Credit is fully committed and almost 100% disbursed. Construction of build-
ings and wells is completed and most of the goals set at appraisal have been
achieved. The pastoral service established under the project is successfully
carrying out livestock extension services and implementation of grazing man-
agement plans which have been carried out in 10 of the 53 pastoral units
created in the grazing scheme area. The recently-appraised Eastern Senegal
Rural Development Project includes a follow-up livestock component for the
grazing scheme area and will provide new funding for the project by the end of
1983 in order to consolidate the results. The project's closing date has been
extended from June 30, 1982, to September 30, 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. 1405-T         Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of Jane 7,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 20, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
All the civil works and the bulk of the studies and technical
assistance under the project have satisfactorily completed. The new quays are
in use. A loan balance stemming from favorable exchange rate variations and
satisfactory project execution is being used to finance audits of Dakar
Port. Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but
progress in meeting financial targets has been hampered by excessive central
control, lack of financial autonomy and the high level of receivables.
Ln. 1412-T         Petit Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6
Ln. 1413           Million Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: January 23, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common faci-
lities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area where
lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program of works
for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies for long-
term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of infra-
structure works at the Sali site has been satisfactorily completed. The first
wing of the Palm Beach hotel opened in December 1980, and the second wing is
completed and will open in Fall 1983, bringing the total number of beds to
330. Two other hotels are under construction. A worldwide recession has
dampened prospects for mobilizing private investors for hotel construction
although SAPCO has a number of projects under construction. Port and street
works for the Goree renovation are complete and bids have been awarded for the
renovation works on the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon on Goree island.
Ln. 1518           Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies. The
project is completed except for ballasting works. Track repair work between
Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfactorily for about 12 months. Because neither
the Regie nor the Government were able to provide the local funds needed for
better quality ballast in FY81, track repair work was halted on and off.
Discussions are underway for IDA financing a larger share. The project is
likely to be completed by late 1983, probably with a local cost overrun of
about $2 million but with no overrun on the foreign cost element.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Cr. 775            Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  June 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of about 2,810 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED; con-
sulting services for applied research and studies for future development of
the River Valley. Works on the IDA-financed Lampsar perimeter (2,070 ha) and
on the Debi perimeter (740 ha), financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement, have been satisfactorily completed. Studies for future
development of the Senegal Valley are well ad-vanced, and will be available in
time to permit appraisal of a proposed Fourth Irrigation project. This
appraisal could be scheduled for end-1983, depending on results of discussions
with other donors on how to relieve SAED's structural deficit.
Ln. 1665            Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of levelling and strengthening the main runway
and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, together
with the installation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and
Cap Skirring regional airports. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily
completed by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed, and con-
tracts for civil works at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring have been awarded. The
Bank has approved a Government request to use the available balance of the
loan to finance supplementary works selected from the investment plan. This
additional work, which includes rehabilitation of the terminal building and
runway night lighting system, is now underway.
Cr. S-23           Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Date of Effective-
ness: August 10, 1979; Closing Date: June 29, 1984.
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Feasibility, organizational and financial studies
have been carried out, and detailed engineering designs are well underway.
The proposed investment project was appraised in March 1982.
Cr. 908             Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The closing date of the EEC Special Action Credit has been extended
to December 31, 1983, to allow for the construction of new practice primary
classrooms in the Kolda area. Three of the institutions to be created under
the project, the Management Institute (ESGE), the College of Agriculture
(INDR), and the Technical Teacher Training College (ENSET) have started work



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
on, or are about to start work on, their new facilities. Physical implementa-
tior. of all components will be completed after an average delay of one year.
Equipment procurement is progressing with only minor delays. The project con-
tinues to be efficiently managed.
Cr. 991             Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of
April 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project focuses on channelling funds and technical services to
small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing.   The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive acti-
vities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision for
a management structure. After a good take-off, the project is experiencing
coordination problems and implementation delays. In March 1983, a mid-term
review mission proposed corrective measures to stimulate the execution of sub-
projects marking time. The encouraging factor is the in'erest shown by most
farmers and producer groups to participate in project activities.
Cr. 993             Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0
Ln.  l3l0           million Credit of April 2, 1980;  Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1980: Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and pro-
grnmming capacity, and to rehiabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200
km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about
85 km) to two-lane, paved standards, financed in parallel by the Japanese
Government.  Almost all procurement has been satisfactorily completed, and the
physical works, as well as consulting services for studies are well under-
way. The training component encountered difficulties with budget allocations
and recruitment of trainers in mid-1982, but these problems are being
overcome. Due to the increased dollar value, additional road sections can be
improved under the program and at a higher envisaged disbursement rate.
Cr. S-26           Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$3.3
million Credit of June 18, 1980, Date of Effectiveness:
August 29, 1980, Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to help Government develop an
overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The reorganization
study has been completed, and legislation for creation of a national power



34-                            ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
entity is being finalized. Two technical advisors for general energy and
power sector planning have been provided to the Ministry of Industrial Devel-
opment. An overseas training program is underway for Senegalese officials
responsible for energy planning. The project also includes audits, financial
and tariff studies, and feasibility studies for a headquarters building for
the new power entity and for the renovation and expansion of distribution
facilities. Project implementation is well underway.
Cr. 1061            Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning; SDR 4.1 million (US$5.3 million equivalent)
Credit of October 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
January 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Govern-
ment's ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and
carry out retrospective evaluations of its portfolio of development projects.
The project also aims at strengthening public debt monitoring, budgeting and
forecasting capacity, and improving coordination between project needs and
public financing. Long-term consultants have been recruited and now well
established, and a number of studies bave been selected for financing. The
project is being executed satisfactorily, but technical assistance and local
training efforts, as well as management structures, need reinforcing if the
project is to achieve its original objectives. A full review was carried out
in June 1983.
Ln. 1931            Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit;
Cr. 1084            US$30 million Loan and SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent) Credit of January 26, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
US$40 million equivalent of the Loan/Credit proceeds were released
in 1981 to the central bank to help the Senegalese Government finance its
medium term economic stabilization and rehabilitation program. Specific
objectives concern the quality and the size of the investment program,
improved incentives for domestic production, increased efficiency in the over-
extended parapublic sector and reforms in agricultural policies and institu-
tions. Counterpart funds are being user' principally in the agriculture and
transport sectors to finance implementation of approved "contrats-plan"
(program contracts) with public enterprises. Six such "contrats-plan" have
been financed with SAL funds, mostly with positive results on company opera-
tions. The second tranche (about US$16.0 million) was withheld because of
lack of progress by Government in achieving agreed program objectives in agri-
cultural reforms, and the Bank finally decided, in agreement with Government,
to cancel the Loan balance as of June 30, 1983.
Cr. 1103            Forestry Project; SDR 7.3 million (US$9.3 million
equivalent) Credit of March 11, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness: July 1, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for fuel-
wood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas of
the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation. Project implementation is now underway.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. 1973            Investment Promotion Project;   US$6.5 million Loan and
Cr. 1136            SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) Credit of
July 17, 1981; Date of Effectiveness:  February 11, 1982;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
The project aims at promoting productive investments in Senegal
by: (i) reinforcing SOFISEDIT, both financially and institutionally;
(ii) providing loan and equity finance for viable subprojects; (iii) improving
the efficiency of SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency; and
(iv) streamlining the investment approval process. Although project imple-
mentation iS still at an early stage, commitments under the line of credit
have been progressing quite satisfactorily. Little progress has been made,
however, in reversing the deterioration of SOFISEDIT's financial position,
since the company's portfolio continues to be plagued by a high level of
arrears. Steps are being taken by SOFISEDIT's Management to improve admini-
strative and operational efficiency of the institution and to vigorously
pursue collection of arrears. Assistance of a highly experienced banking
consultant has been sought to determine other actions needed to put the
institution on a sound footing and to insure its long-termi viability.
Ln. 2025            SEFICS Rail Transport Project;  US$19.3 million Loan of
September 30, 1981; Date of Effectivenes3: March 8, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project aims at creating SEFICS, an operating subsidiary of the
parent fertilizer producing company called ICS, for providing and managing
rail transport services needed by ICS. SEFICS will operate the ICS trains on
Senegal railways. main line tracks after paying a track user charge. All
major bids have been received and their aggrega'- cost is well within
appraisal estimates.
Cr. 1176            Agricultural Research Project;  SDR 17 million (US$19.5
million equivalent) Credit of March 12, 1982; Date of
Effectiveness: June 3, 1983; Zlosing Date: June 30, 1938.
The project aims at reorganizing and d -entralizing the national
agricultural research effort by making it more adapted to small farmer
aeeds. Under the project, the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(ISRA) would be reinforced to carry out (i) 5 production systems research
programs in Senegal's major agro-erological zones, and (ii) six nationally
coordinated multidisciplinary commodity programs on groundnuts, millet,
sorghum, maize, rice, and cowpeas.
Cr. 1310            Rural Health Project; SDR 14.2 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) Credit of February 2, 1983; Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project consists of construction/renovation and equipment of
nine health centers, upgrading the training of health personnel, improvement
of the supply and utilization of basic drugs, improvement of health edueation
services, and strengthening the Ministry of Public Health's planning, imple-
mentation and evaluation capability. The Government is currently aiming to



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
satisfy the conditions of effectiveness which require: a) formally estab-
lishing the Project Management Unit, b) opening an account in a local com-
mercial bank for the establishment of the !DA-financed special account, and
c) opening an account for the establishment of a local revolving fund for
Government counterpart financing. The accounting consultant's contract has
been finalized, permitting commencement of the Pharmacie Nationale d"Appro-
visionnement audit and setting up of project accounts. Overall progress of
project activities is on schedule.
Cr. 1323           Petroleum Exploration Project; SDR 8.9 million (Us$9.5
million equivalent) Credit of March 31, 1983; Date of
Effectiveness: May 5, 1983; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Project implementation is contiriing satisfactorily under financing
from a PPF advance. All components are on schedule, except for the Diam
Hiadio geophysical program which is likely to be postponed by about six moaths
due to delays in reaching agreement between the Government and Elf Aquitaine.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project: Two years
(b)  Project prepared by:               SODEFITEX, Consultants
Courtoy/SONED
(Belgium/Senegal), and
the FAO Cooperative
Program for the live-
stock component.
(c) Date of first IDA mission to
consider the project:              February 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                           Nay 1982
te)  Negotiations completed:            June 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:     December 1983
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III.  Special Conditions
Daring negotiations, Government and SODEFITEX provided assurances on
the following principal items:
(a) major changes in the existing contracts between SODEFITEX and
CFDT for technical and financial assistance will be made only
after prior agreement with IDA (para. 41).
(b  SODEFITEX will make medium-term credits to farmers only through
the organized farmer groups, with a required minimum down-
payment of 20%, and credit repayment over 4 years at 12% (para.
50);
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness will be:
(a) sigaing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and
SODEPITEX (para. 61);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) fulfillment of conditions precedent to effectiveness of the
CCCE and Saudi Fund loans and the FAC grant (para. 59);
(c) revision of the existing CPSP/SODEFITEX contract to incorporate
major items relating to funding of feeder road maintenance, and
retention of SODEFITEX profits to increase its capital and
thereafter to build up a reserve fund (para. 43);
(d) full settlement of Government and CPSP arrears with SODEFITEX as
of May 31, 1983, plus payment to SODEFITEX of an amount of CFAF
215 million to cover PDESO costs for 1982/83 (para. 42);
(e)  signing of an agreement betgeen SODEFITEX and DSPA defining
responsibilities for implementation of the Southern Zone
livestock component (para. 49); and
(f) estatlishment of farmer groups as autonomous entities with
capacity to borrow (para. 50).
A special condition of disbursement will be that for categories of the
livestock component managed by PDESO, Government -ill officially transfer
PDESO from the authority of SODEFITEX to the Directorate of Livestock (DSPA),
and the Special Account for the PDESO revolving fund will have been opened
(paras. 49 and 62).
.



- 39 -
ANNE IV
SEEM
SENAL RUAL DEVEED3Mf P!D2EJT
Propsed  nancing Plm by Type of EFperiizes
Tota     DA     COCE    FAC   SlF   Bnef.   Govt.
1.  aod Constrwti  .                     7.7    2.3       2.9     -    2.3     -        -
2.  Oxr Civi Voz                       2.9    1.4       1.4    0.1    -
3.  T rarese of Pe=t Fads                2.9      -       1.4     -     -      -       1.4
4.  Agricultural ETuipnet                4.4    0.9       0.9     -     -     2.6       -
5.  Coflective Bjuinmt.for Ai's           1.2    0.6       -      -     -     0.6
6.   1 1&Mt=ial aplipnt E,                1.2    0.7      0.4     -     -      -        -
7.  Other ELpnt ed Inestnts              0.9    0.8       0.1    0.1    -      -        -
8.  Vebicles                             0.7      -       0.6   0.2    -       -        -
9.  Wertilisers (inermentai) livestock
inpts and feeds                    1.4      -       0.8     -     -     0.3      0.2
10.  Pescides                             1.1    1.1       -      -      -      -        -
11.    atriate Staff, COzUltgntS
Stuiies and AizUts                 3.1    0.5       0.7    1.9    -      -        -
12.  Local Staff, Operating and Tntining
costs                              6.1    2.4       2.4   0.5    -       -       0.9
13.  Refi fia g of rFr DvesbilitY stucy)   0.4    0.4                   -       -        -
14.  Sabota  base cost                    34.0   11.1     11.8    2.8   2.3   3.4       2.6
15.                                       10.0    3.5     34    0.8   0.9    0.9        0.5
16.  3xbtotaL, i cx          is           44.0  14.6    15.2   3.5   3.2    43          3.1
fQESO
17.  Et.mates Staff, Consultants, Civil
Works, Vehicles and Sjuinzmet        0.7    0.3      0. _  _  _ _
18.  Livestock Inpt and Feeds             0.2              -      -            0.2       -
19.  TOcI Staf, Operating and Trainng
;o1st                                    1.9    0.8       0.8    -      -      -       0.4
20.  Sibtotal  s  costs                   2.9    1.2       1.2    -      -     0.2      0.4
21.       (                               0.8    0.3       0.3    -      -     0.1      0.1
22.  Sibtotal, inclving aengenies         3.7    1.5       1.5     -     -     0.2      0.5
Total Prject
23.   se ecst                             36.9   12.3    13.0   2.8   2.3    3.6        3.0
24.  ConBseCio s                          10.8    3.8      3.7   0.8   0.9    1.0       0.6
25.  Project Totl Cost                    47.7   16.1    16.7   3.6   3.2    4.5        3.6
26.  PeeTtale                            10)    34        35     7      7      9        8
Note: -otas ::a nt add due to zmdrodmng.



-        IthgtJ^t __'                                                      ,  'ded              M AU RI IA N IIA                          EASTERN   SENEGAL   RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
tIP4OAL~~~~~.- -I ~~~~~-~~iGII    -.                                                                    PR~~~~O/er Df   fVifiOPfMMfNr RURAL AU  SeNIfGAL ORIIENAtA
64Z6^I,)                 I--                                                                               ' -..I's! ' :_  >a-''   O lIlU,                                           t     b
-" .,,.,                 A .-;         IIEPSI L    XO  U   .G  A   \   /   \ $  5MIf*~-i   ~IN-.I
< t*; e_ Fvt¢ # ~~~~mst   c_$ S
.WftW.r,...  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   LOAAlIUGAfl                                                                                            Cff
/  -.  ~~~~                                                ~~~                                 ~            Sf 4t,MW~~~~~~~~~~~hW,0"    -0 e'oalow W
of                                                                                                                                             00.10 6 gX<!- : _(
'a.mv                                       \ a          . a   /                                                                                          ftve
vv pf=-v -  ",                                 U






