Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4297-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 8, 1983
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Agriculture C Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           CFA Francs
US$ 1.00                CFAF 355
CFAF 1,000              US$ 2.817
SDR 1,000               US$ 1.082
RIAL 1,000              US$ 0.290
WEIGAHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)   =    2.20 pounds
l metric ton (t)        0.98 long ton
i hectare (ha)    =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 miles
CONVERSION RATES
Seed cotton to lint = 37 to 40%
FISCAL YEARS
SODEFITEX: October 1-September 30
Government.         July 1 -June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii -
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS.
ABP        Association de Base de Producteurs (Pre-Coopérative Mutual
Guarantee Village Group)
AFVP       Association Française des Volontaires du Progrès (French Non
Governmental Organization)
BOAD       Banque Ouest-Africaine de Développement
BPP        Bureau de Pistes de Production (Publics Works Feeder Road Unit)
CAA        Commissariat à l'Aide Alimentaire (Food Aid Agency)
CBPP       Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia
CC         Compagnie Cotonnière (French Cotton Broker)
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (France)
CFDT       Compagnie Française pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
CPSP       Caisse de Péréquation et de Stabilisation des Prix (Stabilization
Fund)
DSPA       Direction de la Santé et des Productions Animales (Livestock
Department)
EDF        European Development Fund
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (France)
FAO/CP     United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
FMDR       Fonds Mutuel de D3veloppement Rural
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association (World Bank)
ISRA       Institut Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles
ITA        Institut de Technologie Alimentaire (Sénégal)
MDR        Ministère du Développement Rural
ONCAD      Office National de Coopération et d'Assistance pour le
Développement
PDESO      Projet de Développement de l'Elevage au Sénégal Oriental
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SFD        Saudi Fund for Development
SODEFITEX Société pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles (Cotton
Development Agency)
SODEVA     Société de Développement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
SOMIVAC    Société de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance
SONACOS    Sociéte Nationale de Commercialisation des Oléagineux du Sénégal
SONAR      Société Nationale d'Approvisionnement Rural (National Agricultural
Inputs Agency)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1



- iii -
SENEGAL
EASTERN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   Background          ..        . .............................   1
A. Project Background ........................................   1
B. The Rural Sector ....................................... . .    1
C. Institutions .......................................... ..      2
D. Sector Issues and Strategy . ..............................  5
II.   Project Area ...........................................ea... .    7
A. Physical Resources                    . ...   7
B. Socio-economic Features .... . ........ . .  ...........  8
C. Past Agricultural Development ............................      8
D. The First Senegal Livestock Development Project   ....  9
III.  The Project        ................................................  10
A. Objectives and Brief Description .................... .....  10
B. Detailed Features .....................................   .. .  12
IV.  Project Cost and Financial Arrangements .....................   21
A. Cost Estimates ..                                .    ....... . 21
B. Proposed Financing .................................... .  ..  23
C. On Lending and Administration of Funds ...................  25
D. Revolving Fund for PDESO ............................ . ..  .  25
E. Procurement and Use of Consultants ...................... .  25
F. Disbursement .......................................................  26
G. Accounts, Audits and Reports ............................. 28
V.  Organization and Management ............................           29
A. Project Implementation ... ........................ ...... .   29
B. Staffing                 ...... ..........................................  . 30
C. Financial Management .....      .      ..................... .  30
D. Relationship Between SODEFITEX and CPSP .................. 31
E. Input Supply, Credit and Primary Marketing ............... 32
VI.  Financial Analysis .......................................... 32
A. Financia Results and Cash-Flow .......................t...     32
B. Working Capital Requirements               . .         ..   34
C. Government Project-Related Cash-Flow .................... .    36



- 1v -
VII.  Markets, Prices and Financial Results   ....................  36
A. Marketing and Prices.... .................... .e. .... ,  ........  36
B. Recurrent Costs, Cost Recovery and Government
Cash-Flow        ...          ...       ............. ....................  38
F F-:;-  icomese  ..eo........              e . . e........   e .......a...ee .. e5     39
VIII.  Economic Justification and Risks...........  _ft_ ...e......  42
A. Direct Benefits .   .................               .............., e., 42
B. Non-Quantifiable Benefits ,..........................  42
C. Economic Analysis ...... .........e,.                   e      C    43
D. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis .........   44
E. Risks                           .......e ee,... 45
IX.   Agreements to be reached and Recommendations ..............e..  45
TEXT TABLES
3.1     Production Objectives ................                      .................ee   13
4.1  Summary of Project Costs .22
4.2     Proposed Financing Plan by Type of Expenditur .23
7.1     Project Impact: Comparison of Farm. Models ...................  40
8.1     Economic Rates of Return of Main Mixed Farming
Component .......                                                  . .    44



v 
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - Tables
Table 1: Evolution of Cotton Area, Production and
Yields  in  Senegal  ...................................    49
Table 2:  Evolution of Cotton and Cereal Extension Staff ...... 50
Table 3:  Input and Farm Tmplements Requirements    ..............  51
ANNEX 2:  Project Costs and Financing
Table 1:  Project Cost by Component and Time ....     .............. 52
Table 2:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit ... 53
ANNNEX 3: Financial Statements
Table 1:  SODEFITEX Income Statements 1977-1982 ....   ........... 54
Table 2: SODEFITEX Sources and Applications of Funds 1979-82.. 55
Table 3:  SODEFITEX Balance Sheets 1977-82 .................... 56
Table 4:  SODEFITEX Monthly Working Capital Needs and
Financing  ...........................................    57
Table 5:  SODEFITEX Projected Financial Statements PYO-PY5  .... 58
Table 6:  SODEFITEX Internal Cash-Flow PY1-PY5 ....    ............ 59
Table 7:  Governnent Project-Related Cash Flow ................ 60
ANNEX 4:      Selected Documents and Data Available in Project
Files     ......................................  61
CHARTS AND MAPS
Chart I:  SODEFITEX Organization
Chart II: Field Services' Organization
Map:           Project Area Map #IBRD 16861R



q



SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Physical Resources
1.01     The IDA-assisted project, Terres Neuves II (Cr. 578-SE) financed a
master plan for the agricultural development of the Senegal's Eastern Region.
Based on the findings of this study and the experience of SODEFITEX, Govern-
ment requested the Bank in 1980 to finance a feasibility study for a rural
development project covering the whole area of the Eastern Senegal and Upper
Casamance regions where SODEFITEX had been providing extension services. The
Bank approved a PPF advance of US$400,000 to finance the feasibility study.
At the same time Government requested FAC to finance an organizational and
financial study of SODEFITEX.
1.02     Originally the proposed project was to include a small livestock com-
ponent that would deal with only the promotion of animal traction, because a
second phase of the Bank assisted Eastern Senegal Livestock Project was envi-
saged. However during preparation of a possible second phase of the Eastern
Senegal Livestock Project by FAO/CP, it was felt that a free-standing live-
stock project was not warranted and therefore the Eastern Senegal Rural Devel-
opment Project should include a comprehensive livestock component covering
both the agro-pastoral and the pastoral zones.
1.03     This appraisal report is based on the findings of the preparation
reports and those of an IDA/CCCE appraisal mission which visited Senegal
in May-June 1982. The mission consisted of Messrs. D. Aw, J. Baah-Dwomoh,
B. Dussert, S. Steengaard and Miss E. Garfield (IDA), Messrs. G. Gleizes
(CCCE), L. Authossere, J. F. Barrès and A. Garaud (IDA consultants). Messrs.
M. Cernea and J. P Le Bouder (IDA) joined the mission in the field and
assisted it. The livestock component was appraised in September-October 1982
by an IDA/CCCE mission consisting of Messrs. D. Steeds and S. Steengaard (IDA)
and G. Gleizes (CCCE).
B. The Rural Sector
1.04   General.  Covering an area of about 197,000 km2, Senegal lies almost
entirely in the Sudano-Sahelian zone of West Africa. Its population as of
mid-1980 was estimated at 5.7 million and growing at 2.6% per annum. The
rural population represents about 70% of the total and although rural-urban
migration has been high, the rural population continues to grow at the rate of
about 2.1% per annum. Nearly 60% of the rural population live in the Ground-
nut Basin, which covers about 35% of the country's land area. Human and live-
stock pressure on the land in this area is becoming serious and hence there
has been a gradual movement of people, sometimes encouraged by the Government,
from the Groundnut Basin to less populated areas of Eastern Senegal.



1.05     Per capita Gross National Product was estimated at US$450 in 1979,
about equal in real terms to per capita income in 1970. In contrast, the
average rural income in 1979 was about $190, about 8% lower in real terms than
in 1970. This decrease in real rural income was registered despite increasing
investments in the sector since 1970. Agricultural production and hence rural
incomes have shown wide fluctuations between 1960 and 1980, partly as a result
of a series of droughts starting in the late 1960s and also partly because the
available agricultural technology has not been able to produce the desired
results. Thus, despite increasing investments in the rural sector, Senegal
has neither been able to improve crop production nor significantly diversify
its rural economy.
1.06     Importance of Agriculture for the Economy.  The agricultural sector
continues to be a key one in the economy. It has accounted for some 30-55% of
GDP, and about 60% of export revenue in recent years.  It also employs about
75% of the labor force.  Within the sector, about 60% of output comes from
crops, 18% from livestock, 15% from fishing and 7% from forestry products.
Basic foodcrops produced are millet, sorghum, rice, maize and cowpeas; ground-
nuts and cotton are the main cash crops. Over 90% of rural output is produced
by small-scale rainfed farm units, but there is much diversity in farm size,
labor availability, ownership of agricultural capital, productivity and
revenues. The sec-tor is fairly sensitive to rainfall, which is often erratic.
1.07     Over the past decade, groundnuts and millet/sorghum have taken up
close to 90% of the cultivated area (47% and 42% respectively) while cotton
and maize have occupied 2% each of the area. Between 1976 and 1979 major
export products in the agricultural sector have been groundnut products (69%),
fish products (21%) and cotton products (7%).
1.08     Efforts to develop agriculture have in the recent past been directed
toward: (i) providing inputs for the rural sector through the "programme
agricole"; (ii) organizing the sector into cooperatives to facilitate agricul-
tural credit and marketing; (iii) increasing and diversifying agricultural
production through promotion of new crops, and development of livestock;
(iv) encouraging migration to and settlement in suitable under-populated
areas; and (v) seeking to develop the country's irrigation potential espe-
cially in the Senegal River Basin and in the Casamance regions to reduce
reliance on imported food grains.
1.09     The major instruments for this policy have been the para-statal rural
development agencies. Since 1980, Government's professed strategy has been to
improve the efficiency and reduce the size of these institutions, to involve
farmers directly in decision making and to give them incentives for increasing
their production. Few of the reforms introduced since 1980 to streamline
Government involvement in the sector and to restore a viable rural organi-
zation network have, however, been implemented.
C. Institutions
1.10     SODEFITEX, which will be the main executing agency for the project,
was created in 1973 to take over from a French mixed company, CFDT, that had
been responsible for cotton development in Senegal since 1964. SODEFITEX, is



-3-
a commercially oriented rmixed enterprise with share capital of CFAF 750 mil-
lion and is owned 77.5% by Government (MDR and CPSP), 20% by CFDT and 2.5% by
local banks.
1.11     As a regional development agency, SODEFITEX is responsible for cotton
development, ginning and marketing in Senegal as well as for the overall inte-
grated agricultural development of the Senegal Oriental administrative region
and the Upper Casamance. Its main emphasis in the past has been on cotton,
since it is the only self-paying activity, the other ones being non revenue
earning and Government having had difficulties in raising adequate funds to
finance them.  SODEFITEX has however executed rural development projects in
its sphere of influence, including a rice development project in Kedougou,
financed by the European Development Fund (EDF), a cereal project in
Tambacounda being financed by FAC and the Eastern Senegal Livestock Develop-
ment Project co-financed by IDA, Kuwait Fund and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa. The latter project is executed by PDESO, a semi-
autonomous project unit within SODEFITEX.
1.12     SODEFITEX has the following advantages over other rural development
agencies in Senegal: (a) it controls the entire process of cotton production
and marketing from input supply, to production, ginning and cotton lint and
seed marketing. It is therefore able to recover its costs, provide reliable
service to farmers and ensure credit repayment; (b) it enjoys a great deal of
autonomy because of its status as a mixed enterprise; and (c) it has access to
commercial bank loans because of its industrial and commercial nature. It is
well managed and therefore suitable as a project executing agency.
1.13     SONAR has, until recently been the official agency responsible for
input supply to the rural sector taking over this function from ONCAD after
the dissolution of the latter in 1980. It is supposed to supply fertilizer at
a subsidized price; groundnut seeds, and equipment, if and when available, to
farmers in the project region.  With the exception of the seeds, SONAR has
been unable to fulfill these tasks, and SODEFITEX has had to order fertilizers
and, equipment on its own and claim for the reimbursement of the fertilizer
subsidy later. In September 1982, Government decided that SONAR will be
responsible only for groundnut seeds supply. Distribution of fertilizer will
be the responsibility of manufacturers.  Similarly, the "Commissariat à l'Aide
Alimentaire" (CAA) is theoretically responsible for cereal marketing, having
also taken over from ONCAD.  In practice the CAA has been unable to fulfill
the role of cereal marketing due to lack of funds, inconsistent pricing, and
cereal import and food aid policies which do not encourage the production and
consumption of local cereals. Because of the inability of these two agencies
to fulfill their roles, the project would not rely on them.  SODEFITEX has
dealt and will continue to deal directly with suppliers for inputs and buyers
for cereals if necessary. It would however use the official agencies if and
when they are able to provide the service.
1.14     The Direction de la Santé et des Productions Animales (DSPA) has
officers assigned in all three district capitals and in most sub-districts of
the project area.  However this staff is far from fully utilized due to a lack
of supervision and an inadequate operating budget. The DSPA will be used to
provide health services to livestock in the agro-pastoral zone (see para. 3.28).



- 4 -
1.15     ISRA.  The National Agronomic Research Institute, has so far had its
activities in the project area limited to the operation of the Kolda Station,
specialized in livestock research. However part of the program, conducted in
Nioro-du-Rip, has been useful to the project area. The IDA-assisted Agricul-
tural Research Project, just starting, aims at complementing the commodity
programs research, which has prevailed so far, with farming programs research
and at ensuring adequate linkage between research and extension. ISRA will be
used for applied research on cotton and on farming systems (see para. 3.26).
1.16     The Association Française des Volontaires du Progrès (AFVP), a non-
governmental organization, has been implementing a pilot integrated rural
development project since 1976 at Seoro, near Tambacounda. This project now
covers 35 villages and deals with primary health care, village water supply
and animal health.  It has been very successful in securing participation of
beneficiaries in works, identifying farmers'priorities, and gaining the
confidence of the rural population. The AFVP would be entrusted with the
execution of the open wells and primary health components of the project (see
paras. 3.24, 3.25).
1.17     The Price Stabilization Fund (CPSP).  Separate price stabilization
funds for various agricultural products were consolidated in 1973 into a
"Caisse de Péréquation et de Stabilisation des Prix" (CPSP) which now manages
the production accounts for groundnuts, rice and cotton and the consumption
accounts for groundnut oil, wheat and flour, sugar, rice, tomato and other
marginal products. At the time the separate crop accounts were closed, they
had reserves of CFAF 12 billion of which only CFAF 0.6 billion was transferred
to CPSP. In 1982, CPSP showed a projected net deficit on its operations of
over CFAF 13 billion. This critical situation reflects the public finance
difficulties encountered by Government during the past ten years; it also
explains why CPSP has been unable to meet its financial commitments to
SODEFITEX during the past four years although the twelve-year consolidated
balance of cotton price stabilization operations in 1982 constant CFAF shows a
positive cash-flow in favor of CPSP.
1.18     In the cotton subsector, CPSP's main role is to (i) equalize the
revenues from cotton marketing and ginning operations of SODEFITEX and, (ii)
stabilize producer prices toward world market prices at cotton growers level.
CPSP is to regulate the price to farmers and revenues of SODEFITEX but these
are distorted by such Government actions as fixed producer prices and sub-
sidized input supply. The regulatory function has also not worked very well
because CPSP's financial condition has been deteriorating dramatically as
producer prices and input and output subsidies on various crops and consumer
goods are often set by Government without regard to the costs involved and
CPSP is obliged to bear these costs.
1.19     CPSP's performance is expected to improve in the near future since
Government has realized the necessity of fixing input and output prices in
relation to costs. Thus the inability of CPSP to meet its financial commit-
ment to SODEFITEX should be mitigated. However as a part of the project,
measures are being taken (see para. 5.11) to soften the impact on SODEFITEX of
deficits in the CPSP accounts.



-5-
D. Sector Issues and Strategy
1.20     There are at present a number of issues facing the sector, some being
addresed by the project, the others by the Bank in its general policy dialogue
with the Government and through other projects. The main issues currently
being addressed through the SAL involve (i) changing the groundnut seed dis-
tribution system by encouraging farmers to keep their own seeds so as to
reduce the financial burden of seed distribution on the state and ensure
improvement in seed quality, (ii) encouraging Government to reduce fertilizer
subsidies and to get the private sector involved in fertilizer sales, also to
reduce costs to the state, and (iii) encouraging Government to adopt a
realistic cereal pricing policy. Other issues facing the sector are:
(a)  serious structural deficits stemming largely from the inefficiency
and the poor state of public finances that threaten to bankrupt the
rural development agencies. The strategy in this project would be to
render at least one of the agencies, SODEFITEX, more efficient and
financially independent;
(b) the general agricultural credit system has broken down and this has
reduced considerably the flow of essential inputs available to
farmers. Since this year however Government is pursuing a policy of
making at least fertilizer available to farmers on a cash sale basis,
while preparing to establish a new rural credit institution to deal
with overall credit to the sector. Given that this new institution
is to expand its sphere of influence only gradually, SODEFITEX will
extend credit to the farmers for agricultural equipment and other
inputs in the project area until the new institution gets estab-
lished;
(c) the high producer price of groundnuts and the falling world market
price for groundnut oil, and the maintenance of a costly and ineffi-
cient seed distribution system have led to large deficits in the
account of the national stabilization fund. The strategy is to try
to alleviate the impact on SODEFITEX of CPSP financial problems by
allowing SODEFITEX to retain 30% of its annual earnings in a a
special reserve account (see para. 5.11).
(d) although agricultural research has a relatively long history in
Senegal and has absorbed considerable resources, it has not been ade-
quately responsive to farmers' needs and constraints. The strategy
being pursued in the National Research Project (Credit 1176-SE) is to
limit commodity research to the most important crops, introduce farm-
ing systems research programs and develop more effective linkages
with extension. The project would support the farming systems re-
search as well as the research extension linkage and introduce cotton
research not covered by the national project (see para. 3.26);
(e) Government price and marketing policies have not been consistent with
the general stated aim of crop diversification and increased domestic
cereal production to substitute for imports. The strategy would be
to obtain some incentives for domestic cereal production and to



-6-
improve the marketing system for domestic cereals. This strategy is
being pursued both through this project and in our general policy
dialogue with the Government.
1.21     Previous Bank Group Involvement.  Since 1969, the Bank Group has lent
US$118 million to the rural sector in Senegal for a total of 15 operations.
Three of the projects have been for irrigation development in the Senegal
River Valley; two for rice cultivation in Casamance; two for agricultural
credit; and two for resettlement in the thinly populated regions of Eastern
Senegal; in addition the Bank Group has financed a rural development project
in the Sine Saloum region, a livestock development project in Eastern Senegal,
and an emergency drought relief program. A small rural operations project, a
forestry project, and an agricultural research project are currently under
implementation.
1.22     Performance Evaluation.  Project performance in general has been
patchy, with management effectiveness deteriorating, and expected benefits
increasingly unrealized. Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued
for six projects: First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 584-SE and Credit
140-SE); First Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE); Terres Neuves I Re-
settlement Project (Credit 254-SE); Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE);
Senegal River Polders Project (Credit 350-SE); Second Agricultural Credit
Project (Credit 404-SE); and Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 578-SE).  The main shortcomings mentioned
in the Project Performance Audit Reports for these projects concern (i) the
quality of engineering design and supervision of construction of project
works; (ii) marketing, unremunerative prices and input distribution; and
(iii) the need to investigate more thoroughly the social aspects involved in
project planning and execution. In add,tion to these problems, funds for
counterpart financing are increasingly becoming scarce. While the lack of
local counterpart funds has not led to the closure of any project, it could
affect future projects having substantial counterpart payment requirements.
Although these lessons are not all relevant to the proposed Project, during
appraisal particular attention was paid to the social, input distribution, and
marketing aspects of the project.
1.23     Sector Lending Strategy.  Since 1980, the Bank Group has encouraged
Government to undertake structural adjustments in the economy as a whole, and
the rural sector in particular. Results obtained so far through a Structural
Adjustment Program financed by the Bank Group have been mixed.  One of the
most positive aspects of the SAL process has been the preparation of "Contrat-
plans" by the main rural development agencies clearly stating their objectives
targets and response and the obligations of Government. This contrat-plan
process is expected to continue and SODEFITEX in particular will incorporate
in its new contrat-plan to be signed in 1984, aspects of the project not
already in the original one signed in 1981. Since the second half of this
year, the Government has begun modest changes in rural sector policies aimed
at: restructuring farmer organizations; instituting a viable credit system;
and reducing overall subsidies to the sector. These changes are however too
recent to be assessed and no new investment can be contemplated in the
Groundnut Basin and the Middle Casamance where these issues are particularly
crucial.



1.24     Pending resolution of those issues, Bank Group Lnvestments in the
sector are being concentrated on: cotton/maize rainfed farming in Eastern
Senegal and Upper Casamance; irrigation development in the Senegal River
Valley; productive small rural activîties throughout the country: and forestry
and researc- d'evlopment; these are all activities where the pressing agricul-
tural sector issues (para 1.20) would not jeopardize the outcomes of projects.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Resources
2.01     Location (see map in annex).  The project will cover all the areas
where SODEFITEX currently provides extension services on cotton, and cereals
in rotation with cotton. These are: (i) the administrative districts of
Tambacounda and Bakel; (ii) the districts of Kolda and Velingara in Upper
Casamance; (iii) the southern part of the administrative region of Sine
Saloum; and (iv) the Bounkiling sector in the district of Sedhiou. However,
in Sine Saloum and Sedhiou, where SODEVA and SOMIVAC operate respectively,
SODEFITEX's activities will be limited to the supply of inputs for and exten-
sion and marketing of cotton, under already agreed arrangements. The net
area, excluding fores  reserves in Senegal Oriental and Upper Casamance,
covers some 43,000 km and has a population of about 500,000, of which about
80% is classified as rural.
2.02     Physical Environment.  The climate of the area is characterized by a
seven month dry season (November-May). Rainfall decreases from the southern
Sudanian zone (1,250 mm in Kolda), through an intermediate zone with annual
average rainfall between 900 and 1,100 mm, to the Sudano-Sahelian zone (750-
900 mm), north of Tambacounda. Average monthly temperatures vary between
15 degrees and 33 degrees centigrade. Thus the climate is suitable for cotton
and rainfed cereals. Soils are generally classified as having average-to-good
fertility and are of the ferruginous type, becoming lateritic crusts on
hills. They are particularly amenable to animal traction which the project
will encourage.
2.03     Road Network.  The main towns in the project area are served by three
major tarmac and all weather roads: Kaolack-Tambacounda, Tambacounda-Ziguinchor
and Tambacounda-Dialakoto. Access to villages from these roads is however
poor and leads to high transport costs for the collection of agricultural
produce, input distribution and extension.
2.04     Water Supply and Health Services.  Access to potable water is gene-
rally poor. Perennial streams are scarce and sub-surface water is generally
deep, particularly in the north (30-60 m). Traditional wells often dry up
towards the end of the dry season and the beginning of the rainy season,
obliging villagers to devote much time to fetching water. Medical infra-
structure is also poor, and most of the few existing rural health posts
require rehabilitation. Parts of the Gambia and Faleme basins are infested
with onchocerciasis.  However, this should not be a major problem to the
achievement of project objectives as the various actions proposed deal with



- 8 -
already settled areas that are essentially free from this disease. Malaria
and gastro-intestinal diseases are of more concern as they occur most during
the rainy season when the demand for labor is at its peak.
B. Socio-Economic Features
2.05     Settlement Pattern.  The project area is sparsely populated (average
8.9 persons per square kilometer) and has a dispersed pattern of settlement in
relatively small villages. There has been some spontaneous, permanent migra-
tion into the project area from more densely populated areas of the Groundnut
Basin, though its extent is not well known. There is also a historical pat-
tern of seasonal in-migration during the rainy season by persons (navétanes)
who work for the head of an extended family in exchange for food, shelter and
a parcel of land on which to grow cash crops. The predominant ethnic group is
the Peuhl/Toucouleur that comprises 58% of the population. Other ethnic
groups tend to be concentrated in specific geographic areas and villages tend
to be ethnically homogenous.
2.06     Agricultural Equipment.  Animal traction has a long tradition in the
project area. Adequate equipment, locally manufactured, is available for land
preparation, sowing and weeding. However, the project area is not adequately
equipped and, given the sparse population in the area, labor may quickly
become a key production constraint to increasing production if the stock of
agricultural equipment is not increased.
2.07     Animal Resources.  The Peuhl were originally a pastoral people, and
livestock still has a very important economic and social role in the project
area. lt is both a stock of capital and a source of social status. The
extended family herds its animals together; however, rights to the animals are
individualized. Animal traction is a very important means of overcoming labor
bottlenecks, but most of the animals are untrained and poorly fed and hence
not sufficiently strong during the land preparation period. The livestock
population of the project area is, in the agro-pastoral zone, 470,000 cattle
(of which 22,000 draft oxen), 260,000 sheep and goats and 28,000 equine
species with a total capital value of $32 million, and in the pastoral zone
there are some 120,000 cattle and 70,000 sheep and goats with a total capital
value of US$7 million.
C. Past Agricultural Development
2.08     Cotton.  Although the regions covered by the project are among the
best endowed for rainfed crops and livestock in Senegal, Government did not
start implementing development programs there until the mid 60's. Promotion
of cotton cultivation was introduced in 1964 by CFDT with FAC financing. From
1965 to 1980, with four consecutive projects, EDF supported cotton develop-
ment. The results were impressive: starting from scratch, seed-cotton produc-
tion exceeded 45,200 t in 1977 with an average yield of 1,030 kg/ha. However,
as a consequence of poor weather, insufficient pest control, as evidenced by
the outbreak of the cotton white fly (Bemisia tabaci), and the deterioration
of the cotton producer price relative to that of groundnuts, seed-cotton pro-
duction and yield fell respectively from 45,200 tons and 1,030 kg/ha in 1977
to 20,600 tons and 690 kg/ha in 1981. With corrective measures embodied in



- 9 -
the "Contrat Plan" agreed between Governrment and SODEFITEX in 1981, and as a
result of favorable climatic conditions, a sharp recovery was achieved in
1981/82 with a production of 41,000 t and a yield of 1,280 kg/ha.  This was
the best average yield of cotton under rainfed conditions in all of West
Africa. The overall evolution of cotton cultivation is provided in Annex 1,
Table 1.
2.09     Cereals development started only in 1971 after a six-year period
where efforts were concentrated exclusively on cotton. Improvement in produc-
tion of coarse grains (millet, sorghum and maize) has been based mainly on:
(i) cotton-cereal rotation in order to have the cereal benefit from the
residual effect of fertilizers used on cotton; (ii) timely and better opera-
tions through the promotion of animal traction; and (iii) use of extra fer-
tilizers on maize by the most progressive farmers. The results have been less
successful than those of cotton, because of: (i) poor technical package, par-
ticularly unavailability of high yielding varieties; (ii) poor marketing
arrangements and until recently unattractive prices; and (iii) the fact
that SODEFITEX has given less priority to cereals than to cotton because it
derives no revenues from cereals. However, a breakthrough can be expected in
maize production with proper extension since some farmers already average over
3 t/ha by just applying fertilizers at a rate of only 100 kg/ha of urea and
benefitting from the residual effect of cotton fertilizer.
2.10     Rice cultivation was introduced in 1971, for both upland and swamp
types of cultivation, with irrigated rice being introduced in 1976. Upland
rice proved too risky in Upper Casamance and Eastern Senegal, due to the fre-
quent occurrence of drought spells at critical growth stages. Swamp rice in
the Kedougou district and irrigated rice along the Gambia river are more suc-
cessful. They constitute the core of a five-year project being financed by
EDF which started in 1982.
2.11     Groundnut as everywhere in Senegal, is a traditional cash crop. In
the project area, SODEFITEX has been assigned (i) a program of seed produc-
tion, because chances of failure are less than elsewhere in the country, and
(ii) production of confectionary groundnuts, because of its higher value com-
pared to the oil types. No further action on groundnuts will be undertaken by
the project because, with technologies available now and in the near future,
cotton has a clear comparative advantage over groundnuts in the project area.
D. The First Senegal Livestock Development Project
2.12     This proJect, assisted by IDA, started in 1976.  Its objectives were
to assist 30,000 livestock owners in the northern part of Eastern Senegal to
increase their incomes by developing and operating a grazing scheme and making
livestock inputs readily available to them, and also to assist all livestock
owners in Eastern Senegal by improving animal health services throughout the
province mainly by organizing vaccination campaigns against the major con-
tagious diseases. Other components were construction of wells and firebreaks,
supply of credit for supplementary feeds, a functional literacy program and
monitoring and evaluation.



- 10 -
2.13     Results.  The overall impact of the first livestock project has been
good, although project implementation has been slow, management weak and
financial problems numerous. At project completion in 1983, after a two year
extension, almost all the goals targetted at appraisal would have been
achieved.  The grazing scheme has been successfully started with 53 pastoral
units each with an elected management unit created by the projact's pastoral
service; management plans have been drawn up for 20 units and these plans are
now being implemented in 10 units. Sales of livestock inputs were slow at
first but have dramatically increased in the last two years. The civil works
program has been slow, in particular construction of project headquarters and
veterinary infrastructure, due to Government's chronic delay in counterpart
funding. The highly appreciated well construction program has been completed
with 90 new wells constructed and 10 old ones repaired. The firebreak con-
struction program started smoothly (900 km) but was halted when it became
clear that Government would be unable to assure maintenance.
2.14     Project monitoring has been good; herd monitoring was particularly
successful and gave good information on herd parameters: average herd mort-
ality in the 120,000 cattle herd has decreased from more than 10% in 1979 to
about 3% in 1982; the fertility rate has improved but remains low, at around
50%. Livestock numbers increased from about 105,000 heads in 1979 to about
120,000 by the end of 1982, but, there is no short term risk of overstocking
as the average stocking rate is still low. The functional literacy program
has made steady progress and about 2,000 people have completed the two-year
course; about 50 volunteer extension workers (auxiliaries and monitors)
trained under the program, are presently working in the pastoral units. The
program has somewhat compensated for the high illiteracy rates (90%) and the
lack of schools. The annual cattle vaccination campaigns have been carried
out successfully with a satisfactory (80%) coverage in the whole Eastern
Senegal province and a somewhat higher coverage in the grazing scheme area.
Yet in its two key activities-input delivery and grazing management - the
project's successes are recent and more support is required before they can
become self-sustaining.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Brief Description
3.01     The Project aims over a five year period, at:
(i) increasing the production of cotton, and cereals grown in rotation
with it;
(ii) organizing and assisting farmers in effectively assuming increasing
responsibility for primary marketing, credit application and
recovery, and undertaking collective investment;
(iii) promoting the development of essential rural infrastructure;
(iv) improving the efficiency of SODEFITEX;



- il -
(v) promoting the integration of crop and livestock activities,
especially through the development of animal traction and the
improvement of animal health; and
(vi) consolidating the achievements of the First Livestock Project.
These objectives recognize that production of cotton, which is the
main cash crop in the region, can be increased only when farmers can achieve
self-sufficiency in food supply; thus, the emphasis on cereal promotion along-
side cotton. The project proposal also gives due recognition to the low level
of social infrastructure in the region, especially in the areas of health and
communications, which has among other things hindered agricultural development
in the area.
3.02     The above objectives would be achieved through the following project
components:
(a) crop development, including promotion of animal traction and support
to rural blacksmiths;
(b) increase of the permanent funds of SODEFITEX;
(c) improvement in crop processing and storage facilities and a study of
the technology of broken maize;
(d) improvement of field offices, maintenance facilities and support to
management;
(e) training of field staff as well as office, ginnery and workshop
staff;
(f) monitoring and evaluation, and audits;
(g) assistance to village farmer groups (Associations de Base de Pro-
ducteurs: ABP's) through: (i) functional literacy and numeracy
programs, (ii) supply of credit for collective equipment, and
(iii) management advice;
(h) construction of some 800 km of feeder roads and maintenance of the
whole network;
(i) village water supply with (i) establishment of 36 tubewells and open
wells, and (ii) rehabilitation of 89 existing open wells;
(j) primary health care;
(k) applied research program, aimed at complementing the National
Agricultural Research Project and developing linkages between
research and extension;



- 12 -
(1) livestock development, with two subcomponents: (i) Southern zone
subcomponent to be carried out by SODEFITEX and the livestock
Department (DSPA), and (ii) Northern zone subcomponent to be carried
out by PDESO.
The execution of the components beyond the expertise of SODEFITEX
will be contracted to other Government agencies or to the private sector in
order to help SODEFITEX keep a high standard of management.  However,
SODEFITEX will have the responsibility of coordinating and monitoring the
execution of the overall project except the Northern zone livestock sub-
component to be carried out by PDESO.
B.   Detailed Features
(a)  Crop Development.
3.03     The recommended farming system will be based on a cotton-cereals
rotation. Agronomic packages will be based on proven techniques already
promoted by SODEFITEX and recommendations drawn from agronomic research
carried out in the project area and experience from projects under similar
ecological conditions: improved crop husbandry, through timely sowing and
weeding, adequate plant density, use of fertilizers and improved varieties;
cotton pest controL; seed dressing; and post-harvest protection. Production
objectives are in table 3.1.
3.04     Cotton.  Over the five-year period, the area under cotton is expected
to increase from some 44,000 ha in 1982/83 to over 58,000 ha. During the same
period cotton yields are expected to increase under average climatic condi-
tions from 1,000 kg/ha to 1,150 kg/ha, and the number of cotton farmers from
about 71,000 to 78,000. These objectives, which take account of a drought
impact of 15% per year, are considered to be realistic in view of the yields
already achieved (see Annex 1), the arrangements made to ensure that required
inputs will be made available to farmers, and the development anticipated for
animal traction. It is assumed that without project the situation would
remain at the 1982/83 (PY0) level.
3.05     For cotton, the variety L-299-10-75, currently under multiplication,
would be generalized in the Tambacounda area. Trials have shown that this new
variety has a yield potential and fiber quality at least equivalent to those
of BJA, the most common variety presently grown, while its ginning outturn is
40% compared with 37% for BJA. However the latter would be retained in the
Casamance Region where L 299 is prone to bacteriose. Recommended rates of
fertilizers are: 150 kg/ha of compound fertilizer NPKSB (8-18-27-5-1), 50
kg/ha of urea on half of the area and 50 kg/ha of muriate of potash. Cotton
pests would be controlled with five sprayings at ultra-low volume (U.L.V.)
with a mixture of a pyrethroid and a systemic insecticide. On-farm trials of
herbicide use have proven to be cost effective and warranted for progressive
farmers. The recommendation is an application at a low volume (20 litres/ha)
of compound herbicide; about 10% of the total cotton area is expected to be
treated by PY5.



- 13 -
Table 3.1: PRODUCTION OBJECTIVES
PYO      PYl       PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
I. Cotton
Total area (ha)              44,000   45,200   48,650   51,850   55,050   58,250
Herbicided area (ha)              -    2,000    3,000    4,000    5,000    6,000
Average yield (kg/ha)         1,000    1,000    1,050    1,100    1,150    1,150
Production (t)               44,000   45,200   51,083   57,035   63,308   66,988
II.  Maize
A.  Intensified maize
Fertilized area (ha)    2,000    2,500    2,900    3,400    4,000    4,700
Herbicided area (ha)          -       500    1,000    1,500    2,000    2,000
Average yield (kg/ha)   2,600    2,600    2,700    2,800    2,900    3,000
Production (t)            5,200    6,500    7,830    9,520   11,600   14,100
B.  Imnproved maize
Area (ha)                 7,800    7,300    7,600    7,900    8,100    8,300
Average yield (kg/ha)   1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600
Production (t)           12,480   11,680   12,160   12,640   12,960   13,280
C.  Total maize
Area (ha)                 9,800    9,800   10,500   11,300   12,100   13,000
Yield (kg/ha)             1,804   1,855      1,904    1,961    2,030    2,106
Production (t)           17,680   18,180   19,990   22,160   24,560   27,380
III.  Improved Millet/Sorghum
Area (ha)                25,400   25,400   25,660   27,620   29,380   31,040
Yield (kg/ha)               900      900       950    1,000    1,050    1,100
Production (t)           22,860   22,860   24,377   27,620   30,849   34,144
IV. Total Cereals
Area fertilized/
improved (ha)              35,200   35,200   36,160   38,920   41,480   44,040
Seed dressing (ha)                -         -    1,000    5,000   10,000   20,000
Production (t)               40,540   41,040   44,367   49,780   55,409   61,524
Post harvest treatment (t)        -    5,000   10,000   20,000   40,000   50,000
V. Total Project
Area (ha)                79,200   80,400   80,810   90,770   96,530  102,290
Participating farmers  70,968   71,746   73,712   75,145   76,458   77,667



- 14 -
3.06     Cereals.  The other crops covered by the project are rainfed cereals:
maize, millet and sorghum.  The most important theme for cereals improvement
is that they follow cotton in the rotation, in order to tenefit from the residual
effect of fertilizers used on cotton. This practice is already being followed
by some farmers and enables yields to be raised from 1,200 to 1,600 kg/ha for
maize and from 700 to 900 kg/ha for millet and sorghum. It is anticipated
that this practice would be generalized and that 80% of areas planted with
cotton in a given year would be sown with cereals the next year. Seed dress-
ing (with Thioral) and post-harvest protection (with Actellic), which are both
cheap and effective, would be encouraged. In addition, for maize, farmers
would be encouraged to reach a second level of intensification with the use
of fertilizers (lOO kg of urea/ha) and an improved variety. So far, the
variety recommended has been the hybrid BDS, which has a yield potential of
3-4 tons/ha. Its grain quality is good for human consumption, but its white
color (lack of carotene) makes it unsuitable for animal feed. Breeding is in
progress to select other varieties, preferably of composite type, to replace
BDS. The production of maize parent seeds (male and female) is done under
contract by ISRA and hybrid seeds production is done by contract-farmers. For
millet and sorghum, for which no improved variety is available yet, there will
be no direct application of fertilizers.
3.07     With the uptake rates anticipated for these techniques, area and pro-
duction under improved cereal cultivation are expected to grow during the
five-year period from 35,000 ha and 41,000 t to 44,000 ha and 62,000 t, res-
pectively. Details are in table 3.1.
3.08     Agricultural Extension.  In 1980, SODEFITEX reorganized its extension
services in line with the broad principles of the Training and Visit System,
adapting it to the local conditions. Because there is no viable national
agricultural credit or input supply system, SODEFITEX extension staff have
carried out these functions, under the overall supervision of SODEFITEX Tech-
nical Director in addition to their extension duties. However, since 1980,
deputies have been assigned to regional and sector chiefs to perform the
administrative tasks so that technicians can devote most of their time to pure
extension activities. No change would be made to this set-up during project
implementation. The ratio of village extension workers to farmers in 1982 of
1:300 is already high compared with similar projects in West Africa. Addi-
tional extension workers from the village to the sector level would be hired
as the number of project participants increases. At the regional level, no
additional extension staff is required.  Evolution of overall extension
staffing is in Annex 1, Table 2.
3.09     The project will finance the cost of incremental extension staff.
The project will also finance the construction of offices for the Technical
Director and his supporting staff, input warehouses and housing where needed
at the sector level (see para. 3.14).
3.10     Agricultural Inputs and Promotion of Animal Traction.  The project
will finance the cost of incremental inputs. Surveys have shown that while
almost all farmers in the project area own cattle, only 40% use animal
traction. Moreover, most of those who use it do not have the full set of
equipment recommended for land preparation, sowing and weeding nor do they



- 15 -
train the animals adequately. The project will supply, for cash or on credit
some 32,500 units of animal drawn implements and 5,000 ox-drawn carts. This
will permit to have 61% of farmers equipped by PY5. There will be no credit
for draft animals because most farmers can fill their needs from their herd.
The project will also finance the costs of four animal traction specialists,
one at the technical directorate at Tambacounda and three at the regional
centres to train and advise extension workers on the proper use of animal
traction and the improvement of animal feeding.  The project will hire the
services of farmers with good experience in animal traction to assist other
farmers to train their oxen and they would be paid per number of oxen actually
trained. In order to ensure that animal draft equipment is properly main-
tained, some 40 blacksmiths would be trained and together with 23 already
trained blacksmiths, they will be given credit to purchase equipment.
SODEFITEX would assist the blacksmiths in the purchase of good quality steel
and encourage farmers to use the services of these blacksmiths. Inputs and
farm implements required are in Annex 1, Table 3.
(b) Increase of SODEFITEX Permanent Funds
3.11     A review of the financial statements of SODEFITEX (see Chapter VI)
shows that its working capital is insufficient for sound financial management
and needs to be increased. An increase in SODEFITEX working capital can only
come from an injection of permanent funds, which should come from an increase
in Government contribution to SODEFITEX. Government has agreed to permit
SODEFITEX to retain 30% of its gross profits starting from the 1982/83 crop
year up to CFAF 550 million (US$1.6 million) to cover half of the permanent
fund increase. The CCCE as part of its loan will also finance the procurement
of part of the non-incremental quantities of inputs required for the first
year. The counterpart funds of external financing for this procurement, CFAF
550 million will be used to increase SODEFITEX permanent funds, by further
subscriptions to SODEFITEX equity capital. Assurances to that effect were
obtained at negotiations.
(c) Processing and Storage of Cotton and Maize
3.12.    The capacity of the four existing ginneries is sufficient to process
the production of seed-cotton anticipated at full development. This capacity
can be extended by 20% by simply stretching the ginning period, with little
adverse effect on the quality of cotton fiber. For these reasons, no provi-
sion was made to extend the ginning capacity. In 1978, SODEFITEX added a
lint-cleaner to the Tambacounda ginnery, and this has proved to be cost-
effective. Therefore, provisions have been made to equip all other ginneries
with lint-cleaners. Provisions have aiso been made to increase the storage
capacity of seed-cotton and cotton-seed. Fire control systems will also be
upgraded.
3.13     In order to improve the market prospects for maize, the National
Institute for Food Processing (ITA) will be requested to develop the tech-
nology of broken maize as a substitute for imported broken rice. Toward that
end, it would test equipment already available in other countries, and if need
be it would design modifications on the equipment to meet local needs. The
project will also finance a 1,000-ton silo to allow SODEFITEX to store maize
before selling it.



- 16 -
(d) Improvement of Field Offices, Maintenance Facilities and Support to
Management
3.14     The Project includes the construction and equipping of about 4,200 m2
of office, housing and storage facilities for the Technical Directorate and
field units. Also included is radio equipment to link headquarters to re-
gional offices. Transportation of seed cotton from villages to ginneries is
done by SODEFITEX, which manages to do it whenever possible in combination
with input delivery to villages in order to minimize costs. From separate
financial arrangements, SODEFITEX will renew and expand its fleet. The acqui-
sition of new trucks can be reduced with the construction and proper mainten-
ance of feeder roads envisaged under the project, which can attract private
truckers to transport seed-cotton. The project will also finance construction
and equipment of maintenance workshops for trucks and ginneries equipment, as
well as ancillary equipment for loading and unloading seed-cotton and cotton-
seed.
3.15     The Project will also finance the cost of an expatriate and his
counterpart for a financial and budgetary control unit to be set up to assist
SODEFITEX in improving and decentralizing its management and accounting. To
ensure proper accounting and financial control, the Project will finance the
fees of annual audits over the project implementation period (see para 4.22).
(e) Staff Training
3.16     SODEFITEX has already a long experience in extension staff training,
similar to that of the "Training and Visit System" called training "in
cascade", whereby each higher level extension worker, during short sessions,
trains the staff in the position immediately below. Trainers assigned at
project and regional levels assist and monitor such training. The project
will maintain this training system and in addition will organize longer train-
ing sessions during the off-season, for different hierarchies of extension
staff to update their knowledge and ensure that feed-back from the applied
researoh program and the findings from ongoing monitoring and evaluation, are
passed on to the staff. For this purpose, the project will finance the con-
struction of a training center, its equipment and operating costs. It will
also bear the cost of the head of the Training Division and subsistence
allowances to extension staff for courses they have to attend outside their
duty station. Training of office staff, ginnery workers and mechanics will
be contracted to specialized institutions outside SODEFITEX.
(f) Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies
3.17     SODEFITEX has a system of operations monitoring for its different
functional areas (extension, input supply and credit, ginning, marketing).
However, its management recognizes the urgent need to create a unit to
coordinate and systematize information collection, to analyse fully the data
already being collected and to gather additional information. This unit will
be created within the Direction Technique and will be directed by a SODEFITEX
staff member who will receive additional short-term training in agricultural
economics and stat:Lstics. Technical assistance will be limited to short



- 17 -
missions designed to meet specific needs, including the installation, assist-
ance and training in the use of a micro computer. The unit will have a
permanent staff of six persons who will supervise data collection, train
enumerators, do case studies on selected ABPs, undertake other studies as
needed, analyze data and write reports. Regular extension agents will be
specially trained to undertake data collection from farmers and the ABPs;
temporary enumerators will be hired if needed. In order to ensure timely data
analysis and reporting, the unit will be equipped with programmable calcu-
lators and a micro computer.
3.18     The working document on Monitoring and Evaluation presents a list of
indicators for monitoring and evaluating project progress. Basic data will
come from information already provided by the operational units. Additional
information needs will be discussed and reviewed with the unit during IDA
supervision missions. First priority will be given to monitoring of simple
indicators of project progress. Socio-economic surveys of limited sample size
and for a number of simple indicators of project impact, a complementary
series of case studies of a sample of ABP's, and annual group interviews of a
sample of ABP's, are possible methods that could be used by the Unit for on-
going evaluation. Quarterly and annual reports will be prepared by the unit.
The results will be discussed within SODEFITEX management as well as in
seminars with the extension staff and in meetings with the ABP's.
3.19     The project also includes a provision for financing the feasibility
study of a possible follow-up.
(g) Assistance to Village Farmer Groups (Associations de Base de
Producteurs: ABP'ss)
3.20     In 1979, SODEFITEX began assisting farmers to organize village
groups to handle credit and marketing. The process was accelerated in 1981
when SODEFITEX, on its own initiative and responsibility, proposed to grant
medium-term credit for the purchase of farm equipment, no longer available
because of the collapse of agricultural credit in 1980. Two conditions put by
SODEFITEX for the credit were that it would be provided only through village
groups and that farmers would be required to make a down payment of one third
of the cost of the equipment. Because of the need for farm equipment in the
region, the low price at which this equipment was proposed - as it was
acquired at discount prices from ONCAD liquidation - and the 1981/82 bumper
crop, over 1,000 ABP's were set up within a few months, grouping most of the
cotton growers in the project area. Each ABP screened the requests of its
members, presented its order to SODEFITEX and entered into a contract with
SODEFITEX. All the down payments for equipment and the seasonal credits
(inputs for cereals) of the 1981/82 campaign were paid. This situation con-
trasts sharply with that of Government-created cooperatives, especially in the
Groundnut Basin, whose debts had reached such a level that Government had to
cancel them in 1981. For the successful development of farmer initiatives and
of responsible action by the farmers it is essential that the ABP's retain
their autonomy. Recently Government approved a new law reorganizing coopera-
tives but which did not provide sufficient guarantees for the autonomy of
farmer groups such as the ABPs. As a condition of effectiveness Government
will take all the necessary measures to establish ABPs as autonomous entities
and especially endow them with the capacity to borrow.



- 18 -
5.21     Assistance to ABP's will aim at: (i) transferring to them the
responsibility for primary mar'keting, credit application and recovery; and
(ii) increasing their capability and motivation for undertaking collective
investment. Toward that end, the most important need is functional literacy
and nameracy, since about 80% of all project area villages have no liter-
ates. The objective is to have 6 literates in each of 720 villages. Courses
would be given during the off-season by the zonal chiefs. Four literacy
specialists, seconded from the Ministry in charge of "Promotion Humaine",
would train and supervise the zonal chiefs and prepare teaching materials. An
assurance was obtained at negotiation to this effect. The project will also
make credit available to ABP's for purchasing collective equipment (peanut
butter mills, pumps, stores, etc).
(h) Feeder Roads Construction and Maintenance
3.22     In view of the poor access to many villages, the project would
finance the upgrading of 28 feeder roads for a total of some 800 km. Up-
grading would be done to the minimum standard required for traffic with 15 ton
trucks. It would consist of spot improvements: digging ditches, shaping the
road for erosion control and drainage, construction of small fords and
gravelling to a depth of 15 centimeters and 5 meters width, where needed. No
bridge construction would be required.  Engineering studies, financed by
France, will be completed by end 1983.  Preliminary estimates put the cost at
about CFAF 3.0 billion in 1983 constant prices.  IDA and SFD will finance the
costs of the feeder roads to be constructed in the Kolda and Velingara
districts, under parallel financing.  Similarly, CCCE will finance the cost of
the Tambacounda districts network.  This program could be carried out by a
private contractor selected through LCB procedure or subcontracted to the
Senegalese Army provided its cost is cheaper than that of private contractors
and it accepts the quality control required.
3.25     The Project would finance the cost of an expatriate road engineer
and two Senegalese technicians to supervise road construction works and assist
SODEFITEX in setting up a road maintenance program. The Project would also
ensure an adequate maintenance of the entire feeder road network. Two types
of maintenance have been identified as necessary. The first type has to be
performed every year, soon after the end of the rainy season. It would mainly
consist of filling up potholes and cleaning ditches, and would be manual.
This part will be done directly by SODEFITEX with limited staff and equip-
ment. The second type of maintenance would consist of regravelling and
reshaping and requires some expertise and heavy equipment. It would be sub-
contracted to the Public Works Department or the private sector, whichever
offers the best conditions. The cost of both types of maintenance would be
borne by the cotton cost price. Therefore, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SODEFITEX will be given authorization to that effect. This
authorization is being sought within the framework of a revision in the
agreement linking SODFITEX and the CPSP (see para. 5.1l).
(î) Village Water Supply
5.24     To help alleviate the water shortage in the project area, 16 tube-
wells and 20 open wells will be constructed as a complement to wells being



- 1 9 -
financed in the reg-on through BOAD and Kuwait'Fund financing. The project
will also finance the rehabilitation of 89 existing open wells. The contract
for drilling the tubewells and equipping them with pumps would be awarded
under International Competitive Bidding. Spot location, preparation of
bidding documents and supervision of works for tubewells would be entrusted to
"Direction de l'Hydraulique Urbaine et Rurale". Open well construction and
reliabilitation will be subcontracted to the Association Francaise des
Volontaires du Progrès (AFVP), a non-governmental organization that is already
carrying out similar tasks satisfactorily in some parts of the project area.
Involvement of AFVP will entail a significant beneficiaries' participation,
since all manual tasks have to be performed by the beneficiaries themselves.
Besides the savings, beneficiary participation would imply that only inter-
ested villages are selected since it would require a strong motivation on the
part of the villagers to be willing to lend. themselves for many months in hard
work. AFVP will train village people in the care and maintenance of open
wells.
(j)  Primary Health Care
3.25     In view of the low level of health infrastructure in the project
area, which has, among other things, hindered agricultural development, the
project includes a modest program of primary health care. This component
would complement, at the village level, the IDA-assisted National Health
Project that does not intervene below the district level. The project will
finance: (i) the renovation and equipment of 23 existing health posts at
"communauté rurale" 1/ level, and (ii) the construction and the supply of an
initial stock of medicines for three medical depots. The Project will bear
the operating costs of AFVP related to this component. Beneficiaries would
build health huts, pay for the medicines through a flat rate fee per con-
sultation and nominate two members from,each "communauté rurale" to be trained
as rural community nurse and midwife.  This approach was drawn from the
experience AFVP has had since 1976 with the Seoro primary health care project,
near Tambacounda. In view of the high quality of AFVP's performance, the
implementation of this component would be subcontracted to it, in the frame-
work of the ongoing agreement between it and the Ministry of Health for
Eastern Senegal. This agreement would be extended to Upper Casamance.
(k)  Applied Research Program and Foundation Seeds Production
3.26     The ongoing IDA-assisted National Agricultural Research Project
provides production system teams at Nioro-du Rip in southern Sine Saloum, and
at Kolda, in Upper Casamance, whose programs are relevant to the project
area.  However, this project does not cover the Eastern Senegal Region nor
does it deal with cotton in the individual crop programs. The gap will be
filled by financing salaries and operating costs of four researchers at the
Tambacounda Station, which is being constructed under 'JSAID financing. The
1/   The "communauté rurale" is the lowest level in the administrative
organization in Senegal. It groups a few villages.



- 20 -
foeus will be on agronomic trials, pest control and varietal improvement of
cotton as well as food crops.  The research component will be contracted to
ISRA. Parent-seed production of cotton and maize would also be done by
ISRA. In addition to the research program to be carried out in stations, an
agronomist will be posted to SODEFITEX at Tambacounda to (i) help identify
farmers'constraints in order to orient research programs towards their
solution; (ii) test the findings of researchers through a network of on-farm
trials; and (iii) define technical packages to be extended to farmers.
(1) Livestock Development in the Southern Zone
3.27     Livestock productivity in this zone would be increased through
improvement of animal health and nutrition. A satisfactory animal health
coverage would be ensured for the area's 470,000 head of cattle and 260,000
small ruminants. Special attention would be given to draft oxen in order to
protect them against the major contagious diseases and parasitic infections.
Through SODEFITEX'extension service a better nutrition of draft oxen will be
achieved and farmers will be encouraged to adopt basic animal husbandry
techniques and integrate livestock into the farming system.
3.28     An agreement, satisfactory to IDA, has been entered into between
SODEFITEX and DSPA spelling out their mutual responsibilities, and an
assurance was obtained at negotiation that the agreement will not be changed
without prior consultation with IDA. SODEFITEX will purchase all vaccines and
drugs and make them available to DSPA on a renewal basis. SODEFITEX will also
advance operating costs and allowances for DSPA staff and keep a separate
account for all DSPA livestock activities. SODEFITEX, in collaboration with
DSPA will initiate training of volunteer livestock extension workers
(auxiliaires), and encourage construction of small village veterinary
pharmacies with the help of the local population. Animal husbandry activi-
ties, including improved nutrition of livestock, will be the responsibility of
SODEFITEX through its network of village extension workers. Use of manure and
fattening of old draft oxen and castration of unsuitable bulls will be en-
couraged. Farmers will also be encouraged to collect and use crop residues
and create fodder reserves. Cotton-seed, provided by SODEFITEX, will be
recommended for feeding draft oxen and lactating cows. DSPA will be respon-
sible for vaccination and treatment of all livestock including draft oxen.
DSPA will carry out an annual work program which will be elaborated and
approved by SODEFITEX three months prior to each annual vaccination campaign.
Cattle will be vaccinated annually against rinderpest and CBPP, at no charge
to the owner with a coverage of up to 90% and vaccinated against anthrax,
blackleg and pasteurellosis as needed. The project will finance the vaccine
for rinderpest and CBPP (Bisec) due to the uncertainty in Government funding
and the importance of controlling rinderpest and CBPP. Small ruminants will
be vaccinated against small ruminant pest. Cotton-seed, mineral supplements,
vaccines and drugs except vaccines for rinderpest and CBPP, will be sold to
cattle owners at marked-up prices with an average margin of about 25%.
(m)  Livestock Development in the Northern Zone (PDESO)
3.29     Livestock activities in the 1.4 million ha grazing scheme area will
continue and the results achieved under the first project will be consolidated



- 21 -
by a further improvement in animal health, input and extension services, and
implementation of grazing management plans. Ten plans have been initiated in
the 1982 rainy season and plans for all 53 pastoral units will be elaborated
and implemented during the project. The implementation of the grazing manage-
ment plans will be one of the main themes for the livestock extension service.
Emphasis will also be given to increased pastoralist participation and running
of their own pastoral associations, making decisions and promoting new grazing
practices. In order to achieve that, committee members will take the func-
tional literacy courses, and pastoralist'participation will be encouraged by
giving the management committees responsibility for managing the input credit
program. Cattle will be vaccinated free against rinderpest and CBPP, but all
other vaccinations and treatments will be paid for by livestock owners at
marked-up prices. The option to take credit for cotton seed and mineral
supplement will continue to be made available as it has worked well under the
first project. Sales of cotton- seeds and mineral supplements will be inten-
sified and at Project Year 5 about 2,500 tons of cotton seeds and 280 tons of
mineral supplements will be sold. Revenues from the sales will constitute a
revolving fund.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
4.01     Total project cost is estimated at US$ 47.7 million equivalent of
which US$ 27.7 million (about 58%) are foreign exchange costs. The costs are
summarized in table 4.1.
4.02     Project costs have been calculated net of all identifiable taxes and
duties since from an agreement signed in 1979, SODEFITEX is exempted from
duties and taxes on all its investments for a twelve-year period. Unit costs
are based on prices and quotations as of early June 1982 adjusted to April
1983, the date of negotiations, using a local cost adjustment factor of 8.3%
and a foreign cost adjustment of 6.5 %. Total project costs include physical
contingencies of 10% for all civil works, industrial equipment, and equipment
for ABPs and all project operating costs; and 5% on agricultural implements
and inputs, office equipment and vehicles. The allowance for physical con-
tingencies amounts to about 6% of base costs. The allowance for expected
price increases over the five years of the project is about 23% of base
costs. This was obtained by compounding foreign and local costs at the
following annual percentage rates:
Local               Foreign
1983                 10.0                  8.0
1984                 10.0                  7.5
1985                 10.0                  7.0
1986                 10.0                  6.0
1987                 10.0                  6.0



- 22 -
Table 4.1
EASTRN SENEAL RURAL DE\M  PMENT PROJECT
Sunmary of Project Costs
% of
Foreign % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign  Total Exchange Base Costs
C(CFAF millionT -                   TJ$ million---
I. SODFFITEX
A. Crop Production                 1,404     1,743      3,147      4.0       4.9      8.9   55.4         24.0
B.  Sodefitex Capital increase       181       840      1,021      0.5       2.4      2.9   82.3          7.8
C.   Crop Processing and Storage     270       530        800      0.8        1.5     2.3   66.3          6.1
D.   Improvement of Field Offices    287       324        610      0.8       0.9      1.7   53.0          4.7
E.   Training                        127       302       429      0.4        0.9      1.2  70.4           3.3
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation
- Audit                        192       115        307      0.5       0.3      0.9   37.5          2.3
G.  Assistance to AEPs               291       553        844     0.8        1.6      2.4   65.5          6.4
H.   Feeder Roads                  1,098     2,004      3,102      3.1       5.6      8.7   64.6         23.7
I.  Village Water Supply             127       286        413     0.4        0.8      1.2   69.2          3.2
J.  Prirnai Health                    91       254        345     0.3        0.7      1.0   73.6          2.6
K.   Applied Research                193       243       436       0.5       0.7      1.2  55.7           3.3
L.  Livestock South                 246        229        475     0.7        0.6      1.3   48.1          3.6
M.   Refunding PPF                    43        99        142      0.1       0.3      0.4   70.0          1.1
Sub- total                 4,550    7,521      12,071     12.8      21.2    34.0   62.3          92.0
II. PDESO
N.   Livestock North                 716       315      1,031      2.0       0.9      2.9   30.5          7.9
Total Base line Costs      5,266     7,836     13,102     14.8      22.1    36.9   59.8         100.0
Physical Contingencies       294       492        787      0.8        1.4     2.2   62.5          6.0
Prices Contingencies       1,531     1,514      3,044      4.3       4.3      8.6   49.7         23.2
Total Project Costs        7,091     9,841     16,932    20.0       27.7    47.7   58.1         129.2
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 23 -
4.03     Expatriate staff and short-term consultants's costs amount to US$2.8
million contingencies included, for 288 man-months of resident expatriate
staff and 13.5 man-months of short-term consultants.  The average man-month
cost, in April 1983 constant price, is US$8,400 for resident expatriate staff
(including benefits and travel), and US$13,600 for short-term consultants
(including air-fare and travel allowances).
B. Proposed Financing
4.04     The proposed financing plan is based on a combination of joint and
parallel arrangements as follows:
(a) IDA and CCCE will jointly finance (50% each): (i) the cost of
agricultural equipment, excluding beneficiaries 'contribution; (ii)
local staff costs (excluding salaries of civil servants), operating
and training costs for all components, except Primary Health Care and
Applied Research, (iii) livestock inputs and feeds for PDESO
(excluding beneficiaries contributions); and
(b) all other costs will be financed under parallel arrangements.
Summary of proposed financing plan is in Table 4.2.
4.05     IDA's credit will amount to US$ 16.1 million equivalent representing
34% of project costs, excluding taxes. The meeting of all conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of the CCCE and SFD Loan Agreements and the FAC
Grant Agreement will be a condition of IDA credit effectiveness.
4.06     CCCE's loan will amount to FF 118.6 million (US$ 16.7 million equi-
valent), representing 35% of project costs. It would be made for a term of 15
years including a grace period of 5 years, at an interest rate of 4.5% per
annum.
4.07     FAC's grant will amount to FF25.16 million (US$3.6 million equiva-
lent). It will finance: (i) all costs of the Primary Health Care Component;
(ii) all costs of the Applied Research Component excluding local staff cost;
(iii) the expatriate staff cost of the Training component and allowances to
AFVP volunteers and (iv) the feasibility study of a possible follow-up
project. FAC's contribution represents 7% of project costs.
4.08     SFD's loan will amount to Rials 11 million (US$ 3.2 million equi-
valent), representing about 7% of project costs. The conditions of the loan
are yet to be negotiated.
4.09     The Senegalese Government will pay: (i) the salaries of civil
servants for all components; (ii) the cost of local contracted staff employed
in the Applied Research components; (iii) the subsidies on inputs; and
(iv) part of SODEFITEX capital increase. Total Government financing is
estimated at US$3.6 million equivalent to about 8% of total project cost.



- 24 -
Table 4.2
SENEGAI.
EAT     SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Proposed Financing Plan by Type of Expenditures
(US$ million)
Total     IDA     CCCE    FAC    MF    Benef.    Govt.
SODiITEX
1.  Road Construction                         7.7      2.3       2.9     -    2.3       -         -
2.  Other Civil Works                         2.9      1.4       1.4    0.1     -       _         _
3.  Increase of Pernanent Funds               2.9       -        1.4     -      -       -        1.4
4.  Agricultural Equipnent                    4.4      0.9      0.9      -      -      2.6        -
5.  Collective Equipment for ABP's            1.2      0.6       -       -      -      0.6        -
6.  Industrial Equipnent                      1.2      0.7      0.4      -      -       -         -
7.   Other Equipnent and Investments          0.9      0.8       0.1    0.1     -       -         -
8.  Vehicles                                  0.7       -        0.6    0.2     -       -         -
9.  Fertilizers (incremental) livestock
inputs and feeds                        1.4      -        0.8      -     -      0.3       0.2
10.  Pesticides                                1.1      1.1       -       -      -       -         -
il.   Expatriate Staff, Consultants
Studies and Audits                     3.1      0.5       0.7    1.9    -        -         -
12.  Local Staff, Operating and Training
Costs                                  6.1      2.4       2.4    0.5     -       -        0.9
13.  Refinancing of PPF (Feasibility study)    0.4     0.4        -       -      -       -         -
14.  Subtotal base costs                       34.0   11.1      11.8    2.8   2.3    3.4          2.6
15.  Contingencies                             10.0    3.5        3.4    0.8   0.9    0.9         0.5
16.  Subtotal, including contingencies         44.0   14.6      15.2    3.5   3.2    4.3          3.1
SDESO
17.  Expatriates Staff, Consultants, Civil
Works, Vehicles and Equipment            0.7      0.3       0.4      -      -      -         -
18.  Livestock Inputs and Feeds                0.2      -         -       -      -      0.2        -
19.  Local Staff, Operating and Training                                                           -
Costs                                    1.9      0.8       0.8     -      -       -        0.4
20.  Subtotal base costs                       2.9      1.2       1.2     -      -      0.2       0.4
21.  Contingencies                             0.8      0.3      0.3      -    _        0.1       0.1
22.  Subtotal, including continrgencies        3.7      1.5       1.5     -      -      0.2       0.5
Total Project
23.  Base Cost                                 36.9   12.3       13.0    2.8   2.3    3.6         3.0
24.  Contingencies                             10.8    3.8       3.7    0.8   0.9       1.0       0.6
25.  Project Total Cost                        47.7   16.1       16.7    3.6   3.2    4.5         3.6
26.  Percentage                                100      34       35       7      7       9         8
Note: Totals may not add due to roundinrg.



- 25 -
4.10     Beneficiaries' financial contribution will be made through down-
payments and repayments of medium term credits. Total beneficiaries' financ-
ing amounts to about US$4.5 million or about 9% of total project cost.
C. On Lending and Administration of Funds
4.11     Most project costs (increase of SODEFITEX permanent funds, road con-
struction, extension services, water supply, primary health and applied
research) represent general rural development activities and do not generate
any revenue to SODEFITEX or PDESO. However, other expenses, mainly invest-
ments for crop processing and storage, estimated at CFAF 320 million or
US$2.6 million (including contingencies) are revenue-earning. The part of
IDA Credit to be used for these activities estimated at CFAF 320 million,
(US$0.90 million) would be on lent to SODEFITEX. It is assumed that the
interest rate would be 11%, which is slightly above the inflation rate (10%),
anticipated for the next five years, but slightly below the current interest
rate (12%) charged by local banks for similar types of lending. The loan
would be repaid over 12 years including a four-year grace period. The conclu-
sion of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between Government and
SODEFITEX regarding the on-lending of IDA funds would be a condition of IDA
credit effectiveness. Farmers' repayments against short-term credit for
inputs and medium term credit for agricultural equipment and collective equip-
ment for ABP's would be paid to and administered by SODEFITEX on behalf of
Government, since there is currently no viable agricultural credit institution
in the country. SODEFITEX will use these funds for the purchase of inputs.
D.  Revolving Fund for PDESO
4.12     In view of Government's limited capacity to prefinance PDESO expend-
itures to be reimbursed under IDA Credit and CCCE loan, a revolving fund will
be established immediately after credit effectiveness. The amount of this
initial fund will be US$0.2 million equivalent and would be financed jointly
by IDA and CCCE (50%, each) as an advance from their credit/loan. IDA will
replenish its part of the revolving fund upon receipt of satisfactory evidence
that such expenditures were eligible for financing out of the revolving
fund. Should any disbursement made from this accounts not be acceptable to
IDA, Government would be required to deposit the corresponding amount into
PDESO's account. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
E. Procurement and Use of Consultants
4.13     Works:  The part of construction of feeder roads in the Kolda and
Velingara Regions financed by IDA and construction of tubewells, totalling
US$3.6 million, would be procured through ICB procedures, in accordance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Construction of feeder roads in the
Tambacounda Region, estimated at US$4.0 million, financed by CCCE and those
to be financed by SDF estimated at US$3.2 million in the Kolda and Velingara
Regions would be awarded through procedures acceptable to these co-financiers.
Construction and rehabilitation of open wells to be financed by CCCE and
estimated at about US$0.7 million would be contracted to AFVP (see para.
3.25). The balance of the works to be financed under the project, totalling
US$2.2 million (IDA US$1.2 million), consists of minor works and buildings of



- 26 -
estimated contract size less than US$0.5 million each, and are scattered
throughout the proiect area and are not likely to attract foreign bidders.
These works would be procured by local competitive bidding procedures, which
were found at appraisal to be satisfactory to the Bank, and in which foreign
bidders will have the opportunity to participate for the part financed with
IDA Credit.
4.14     Goods.  Inputs and equipment susceptible to be financed under ICB
totalling US$8.1 million (IDA US$4.1 million), would be grouped to the extent
possible in packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more to be awarded on the
basis of ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay, whichever is lower. Packages of less than US$100,000 but
more than US$25,000, totalling US$1.2 million (IDA US$0.7 million), would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with current
Government procurement procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Packages of
less than US$25,000, totalling US$1.9 million (IDA US$0.9 million) may be
procured through negotiated purchase after solicitation of quotations from at
least three suppliers. About US$11.0 million (IDA US$4.3 million) of project
expenditures, consisting mainly of incremental operating and training costs
and local staff salaries and allowances, do not lend themselves to competitive
bidding procedures.
4.15     Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works over US$200,000
equivalent and bidding packages for goods over US$100,000 would be subject to
IDA's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of
about 85% of the total estimated value of works contracts and about 70% of
goods contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post
review by the Bank after contract award.,
4.16     Consultants.  The terms of reference of all expatriate  staff
financed by the Project will be agreed with IDA. Assurance to that effect was
obtained at negotiations. The expatriate pastoral specialist (36 man-months)
to be assigned to PDESO and short-term consultants, financed with IDA Credit
for a total of US$0.9 million, as well as the financial manager (36 man-
months) would be recruited with qualifications and experience and under terms
and conditions of employment acceptable to IDA.
F. Disbursement
4.17     Disbursement estimates are based on disbursement profiles for IDA
agricultural and rural development projects in Senegal. The IDA credit of
SDR 14.9 million (US$16.1 million equivalent) would be disbursed over six
years under the following categories:
(A) SODEFITEX
Category I      Feeder Road construction; in the Kolda and Velingara dis-
tricts; 100% of total expenditures; SDR 2.52 million
(US$2.7 million).



- 29 -
reports will be agreed upon during early supervision missions. After comple-
tion of the Project and not later than six months after the closing date,
SODEFITEX and PDESO would submit to IDA a Project Completion Report. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Implermentation
5.01     The Project would be implemented over a five-year period, starting
froem July lst, 1983. SODEFITEX has proven its managerial capability and has
established a strong sense of control and coordination at the local level and
is fully accepted by farmers. It should therefore be able to be the lead
agency for project implementation and its General Manager would act as Project
Manager, except for the Northern Zone livestock component, which will be
managed separately by PDESO. SODEFITEX Technical Director, based at
Tambacounda, would be responsible for field level coordination, day-to-day
project activities and project monitoring and evaluation. His responsibili-
ties would include: (i) the implementation of the directly productive com-
ponents of the Project (crop development, processing and storage) and the
support components (improvement of field offices, training and assistance to
ABPs; and (ii) the supervision of the implementation of components contracted
to other institutions or to the private sector (Feeder roads construction and
maintenance, Applied research, Southern zone livestock development, Village
water supply and Primary health program). An agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
has already been drafted by SODEFITEX and DSPA for the implementation of the
Livestock component in the southern zone; the signature of this agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness. It would be required that SODEFITEX
conclude agreements, satisfactory to IDA, with ISRA, and ITA not later than
six months after credit effectiveness for the execution of the components
those institutions have to implement. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions to this effect.
5.02     PDESO.  The northern zone livestock component would be executed
separately by PDESO, which is currently a Project Unit within SODEFITEX, but
would be tranferrred to DSPA.  Vithin DSPA, Governnent would give PDESO a
status which would include at a minimum: (i) authorization to receive cash
from the sale of livestock inputs and use it for its operation without going
through the Treasury, (ii) only a posteriori control over PDESO's expenditures
from its revolving fund by Governnent Financial Controller.  This will be a
disbursement condition for all PDESO categories.
5.03     Transportation of Extension Workers.  The success of such a project
hinges among other things, on the provision of adequate means of transporta-
tion to field staff and the stringent control of the use of these means. In
SODEFITEX, these conditions have been met so far. Crop extension workers at
the level of sector chiefs are assigned a car, the use of which is monitored
through a log book. Region chiefs are assigned a motor bike, besides a car,
to allow them to get to villages which cannot be reached by car during the
rainy season. Zonal chiefs and village extension workers use their own motor



- 30 -
bike to perform their duties and receive an allowance for that. The Project
would finance the cost of incremental cars. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that this system of providing and controlling the use of trans-
portation means to field staff would be maintained.
B. Staffing
5.04      Unlike other rural development agencies in Senegal, overstaffing is
not an issue at SODEFITEX or PDESO. Besides expatriate staff seconded from
CDFT (see para. 5.05), crop and livestock extension workers, from the level of
zonal chiefs, in both institutions are civil servants seconded by Government
with SODEFITEX or ]'DESO having to pay only for their allowances. To maintain
a high degree of efficiency, SODEFITEX and PDESO would return civil servants,
whose performance is not satisfactory, to the public service and ask for their
replacement. During negotiations assurances were also obtained from Govern-
ment that it shall employ staff whose qualifications and experience would be
satisfactory to the Bank to fill the following key positions in PDESO: (i)
General Manager; (ii) Pastoral Service Chief; and (iii) Financial Manager.
5.05     SODEFITEX.-CFDT Agreements.  In 1974, SODEFITEX signed two technical
assistance agreements with CFDT. The first agreement, concerns the secondment
of CFDT staff requested by SODEFITEX. CFDT is reimbursed at cost for such
staff. Under this agreement eight expatriates, including SODFITEX Deputy
General Manager and Technical Director, serve presently in SODEFITEX. Under
the second agreement, CFDT, from its headquarters, provides technical support
to SODEFITEX in the fields of rural development, crop processing, marketing,
procurement, accounting and management. This includes provision of short-
term consultants up to a total of 90 days a year. For these services, CFDT is
paid a fee of CFAF 2,000 (about US$6.00) per ton of seed-cotton. Since any
change in these two agreements could affect project performance, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that no change in the present SODEFITEX-CFDT
agreements be effected without IDA's prior agreement.
5.06     Senegalese Professional Staff.  During the five year period, the
Project would employ five additional local professional staff. They are (i)
the chief of SODEFITEX livestock division; (ii) the chief of SODEFITEX func-
tional literacy division; (iii) the chief accountant for livestock inputs
management; (iv) the PDESO chief aceountant; and (v) the counterpart to the
expatriate head of SODEFITEX financial and budgetary control unit (see
para. 5.07).
C. Financial Management
5.07     In addition to normal financial accounting, SODEFITEX has started to
develop a cost accounting system. However this system is too centralized, and
does not allow field units to know their actual production costs. A more
decentralized cost accounting system with a clear distinction between cotton
and cereals development activities is being introduced. Cost data will be
analyzed and synthesized by a financial planning, budgeting and budgetary
control unit to be set up by SODEFITEX with CFDT assistance. The budgetary
control unit will report directly to SODEFITEX General Management, and in
addition to processing cost data for decision making it will strengthen



- 31 -
SODEFITEX capability in long range planning, bùdgeting, budgetary control
(including controi over inventory holding and arrears on accounts receivable)
and internal audit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
unit will be set up not later than six months after credit effectiveness.
5.08     The financial manager will continue to have primary responsibility
for the financial and cost accounting recording systems, the treasury
function: cash collection, payments, banking operations, debt management,
inventories, and the preparation of the annual financial statements. He will
also participate in budget preparation.
D. Relationship Between SODEFITEX And CPSP
5.09     An agreement signed between CPSP and SODEFITEX in April 1974 defines
the cost structure for cotton production, processing and marketing and speci-
fies what operating costs of SODEFITEX can be charged to the cost of cotton
production and sales. More specifically it determines (a) the standards of
production and marketing costs of cotton lint and seeds, (b) the profit to be
kept by SODEFITEX in case production and quality objectives are reached or
surpassed, and (c) from SODEFITEX operating profits (or losses) the amounts to
be paid to (or received from) the CPSP.
5.10     Under this contract, profits made by SODEFITEX on cotton have to be
paid to the CPSP and in return losses are to be absorbed by CPSP. The latter
received large amounts of money from SODEFITEX up to the late 1970s but in
recent years when production declined and SODEFITEX incurred losses on the
processing and marketing of cotton, CPSP was unable to cover them.
5.11     It is only very recently that part of amounts due to SODEFITEX by
CPSP arrears due were paid. Payments were made out of the counterpart funds
of the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan, and Kuwait Fund financing. A large
part of the remaining amounts due is expected to be paid from the French
exceptional aid to Senegal (2nd tranche). This financial support by external
donors, and local banks'short-term financing bailed out SODEFITEX in 1981/82.
To minimize the risk of a repetition of such difficult financial situation and
since improvement in CPSP financial situation may be long in coming, SODEFITEX
should be authorized to retain 30% of its annual gross profit, before CPSP
intervention, up to a consolidated ceiling of CFAF 1.0 billion in a special
reserve account ("Provision de Péréquation"). The ceiling would be adjusted
from time to time to take account of inflation and expansion in SODEFITEX
activities. The reserve would also help to improve the working capital posi-
tion of SODEFITEX and hence reduce interest charges. It is also proposed that
SODEFITEX permanent funds be increased by about CFAF 1.1 billion, of which
half would be constituted by it withholding 30% of its profit starting from
1982/83.  For SODEFITEX to be able to create the reserve fund requires that
the agreement with CPSP be revised. This would be a condition for IDA Credit
effectiveness. This revised agreement would also include provision for finan-
cing feeder road maintenance in the cotton operating margin (para. 3.23).
Government confirmed before negotiations, that the revised CPSP/SODEFITEX
agreement would contain the provision that will allow SODEFITEX to retain
about 30% of its annual profits before tax as a "provision de péréquation"



- 32 -
with such provision limited to CFAF 1.0 billion, and confirmed during negotia-
tions that 30% of the gross profits starting from the 1982/83 crop year up to
a ceiling of CFAF 550 million would be used to increase SODEFITEX permanent
funds (para. 3.11).
5.12      Subsidy on Cotton Lint Sold to Local Industries.  Since 1977, Govern-
ment has subsidized the local textile industry for its purchase of cotton
lint, but SODEFITEX had been required to prefinance this subsidy which amounts
to 17% of FOB equivalent price. CPSP has not been able to pay its other dues
to SODEFITEX and the subsidy has added to it. The Bank argued that there is
no justification for such a procedure. In November 1982, Government decided
to relieve SODEFITEX from this burden and requested that the subsidy be paid
to the local industries directly by CPSP. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that this new arrangement will be maintained unless otherwise agreed
with IDA.
E. Input Supply, Credit and Primary Marketing
5.13      Timely delivery of inputs and reliable arrangements for primary
marketing of cotton and maize are among the most important factors why
SODEFITEX has been successful in earning farmers' confidence. In the absence
of a viable agricultural credit institution, SODEFITEX would have to supply
seasonal and medium-term credit. During appraisal it was agreed with
SODEFITEX that all medium-term credits would be made only through ABP's and
that a down-payment of 20% minimum, would be required; repayment of the credit
would be over 4 years maximum with an interest rate not less than 12%. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that the rules so defined would not be
changed without the prior agreement of IDA.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      To implement the project, SODEFITEX, as project agency, needs to be
financially viable, that is: (i) to operate profitably and to generate a
positive cash flow; and (ii) to have a financial structure adequate enough to
allow it to borrow from the banking community for its normal needs. Detailed
financial statements showing SODEFITEX past performance (1977 to 1982) as well
as projected balance sheets, income and funds flow statements (PYO to PY5),
are given in Annex 3. These tables show that with the recommended action
SODEFITEX future financial performance would be satisfactory.
A. Financial Results and Cash Flow
6.02      Operating Effectiveness.  Income from cotton sales represents 97% of
SODEFITEX total revenues. In 1982 when the production of seed-cotton reversed
to a normal level, (see para. 2.08), SODEFITEX demonstrated that with sound
cost recovery practices toward cotton growers, and a tight control over
current expenditures, it was able to generate a positive cash flow and to make
a net profit. The cotton subsector remains financially viable as it has
globally been during the past twelve years (see para. 1.17) despite the 1978
to 1981 bad years.



- 33 -
6.03     CPSP Contractual Payments and Other Governments dues.  1978 to 1981
losses were not compensated on time, as they should have been, by CPSP which
could not play its price stabilization role because of lack of resources (see
para 5.10). As a result SODEFITEX was faced with an increasing shortage of
cash and in 1981 became dangerously close to insolvency. Fortunately, annual
shortfalls in CPSP contractual payments were cushioned by assistance from
local banks (overdraft at an interest rate of 12%). Lack of paynent by
Governmnent instrumentalities of their dues to SODEFITEX has of course entailed
a deleterious effect on the level of SODEFITEX income and also temporary
imbalances in its financial structure. In 1982, out of Bank/IDA structural
adjustment resources (CFAF 2,000 million) and from Kuwait funding (CFAF 1,700
million), Government was able to repay most of CPSP dues and part of other
Government dues.
6.04     Full repayment of Oovernment and CPSP dues as of May 31, 1983 plus
payment of an aount of CFAF 215 million to cover PDESO costs for the interim
phase to SODEFITEX will be a condition of credit effectiveness.- After repay-
ment, SODEFITEX will be in a better position to borrow from local banks to
prefinance its working capital needs.  However, as will be explained below
(see para. 6.08) this repayment alone will not be sufficient.
6.05     Future Financial Performance.  Under the assumptions made in this
report for quantities and prices, the increase in the volume of cotton opera-
tions during project implementation will lead to positive results and cash
flows for SODEFITEX. Reduced unit costs of cotton and crops sold and the full
use of the ginning capacity available, added to an efficient cost recovery
from beneficiaries and a tight control on recurrent expenditures will improve
SODEFITEX productivity and operating effectiveness. To cushion price fluctua-
tions, and given the difficulties experienced by the official stabilization
mechanism of CPSP, it is recommended that SODEFITEX should be allowed to
follow a prudent retained earnings and contingency reserve policy by creating
a "Provision de péréquation" to be authorized in its upcoming revised agree-
ment with CPSP. This reserve will be used by SODEFITEX to absorb losses
before calling on CPSP resources. The revision of SODEFITEX/CPSP agreement
will be a condition of effectiveness (see para. 5.11).
6.06     SODEFITEX internal cash flow forecasts are detailed in Annex 3-Tables
5 and 6. The projected cash flow of SODEFITEX shows a steady improvement
during project implementation. It is sufficient to ensure redemption of its
long-term debts and to allow the renewal of existing assets. At full develop-
ment SODEFITEX annual gross cash flow will be about CFAF 800 million, while
redemption of long term debt will peak at CFAF 184 million. However the sound
financial situation so projected can be actually achieved only if Government
resists from entrusting to SODEFITEX non revenue earning activities for which
financial resources would not be secured. Therefore, assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would not contract to SODEFITEX any additional
activity for which reliable funding is not available.



- 34 -
B. Working Capital Requirements
6.07     SODEFITEX working capital needs, and net working capital during the
past three years are summarized below (in CFAF million):
As of September 3G
1980      1981         1982
1. Current Assets:
Cash                             46          26           34
Accounts Receivable            1,429      1,212        1,508
Stabilization Fund             1,770      2,888          285
Inventories                    3,278      3,081        3,486
Other Current Assets             290        443          807
2.  Working Capital Needs                6,815     7,650        6,120
3.  Current Liabilities                  (5,838)   (6,642)      (4,910)
Consisting of:
Bank Overdraft                 4,083      4,594        3,025
Trade Accounts Payable           817        702          955
Others Liabilities               938      1,346          930
4.  Net Working Capital (2)-(3)            977      1,008       1,210
US$ Million                       2.9       3.0          3.5
Inventories are principally made up of agricultural inputs and cotton lint.
Their high level at the end of the fiscal year (September 30) results from
(i) the need for SODEFITEX to have on hand at that time the quantities of
inputs required to meet the needs for the next season, and (ii) the fact that
sale of cotton lint takes place all year round when seed cotton is purchased
only over four months. Accounts receivable mainly are export accounts of
cotton and local textile mills (78% and 12%, respectively in 1982). Collec-
tion period and aging of receivables have steadily improved in 1982 and are
now satisfactory at less than two months of sale. However the figures above
underestimate SODEFITEX's working capital and financing needs, which fluctuate
through the year, in view of the seasonal pattern of SODEFITEX activities.
6.08     A monthly analysis of SODEFITEX working capital needs is in Annex 3,
Table 4. It shows that the peak need for working capital occurs in
February/March. SODEFITEX carries its highest level of cotton inventory at
that time, which is the end of the seed cotton buying period. At the same
time, SODEFITEX has built the stocks of inputs for the next agricultural
season. The incremental working capital needs during the peak months compared
to the minimum needs at the end of the fiscal year are estimated at CFAF 1,100
million. As of September 30, 1982 total working capital needs of SODEFITEX,
(CPSP and Government dues being considered repaid for CFAF 920 million) were



- 35 -
CFAF 5,200 million. Adding the CFAF 1,100 million incremental needs defined
above, the maximum working capital needs as of February 1983 are estimated at
CFAF 6,300 million.
Those needs are presently covered as follows:
CFAF Million
(i)   SODEFITEX Permanent Funds not financing fixed
assets                                            1,200
(ii)   Credit from suppliers                                900
Subtotal                                           2,100
(iii)   The difference of CFAF 4,200 million is covered
by bank overdrafts.
6.09     Since the minimum working capital needs of SODEFITEX are estimated at
CFAF 5,200 million, CFAF 3,100 million are in fact permanently financed by
short-term credit. This is unacceptably high and makes SODEFITEX too depen-
dent on the commercial banks for its operations. SODEFITEX estimates and the
mission agrees that bank overdrafts should not exceed CFAF 2,000 and it is
then proposed that SODEFITEX permanent funds be increased by about CFAF 1,100
million (US$3.2 million) through an increase in Governnent financial partici-
pation as an additional Governnent equity contribution to SODEFITEX. CCCE has
agreed to make disbursements against non-incremental fertilizer in PY1 to
cover CFAF 550 million, and the rest will be covered by Government by allowing
SODEFITEX to retain 30% of its 1982/83 profits. The equity contribution is
preferred to long-term borrowings to avoid increasing too much the financial
expenses of the company. As can be seen in Annex 3, Table 5 the equity of
SODEFITEX would then remain at an acceptable level, the equity-to-debt ratio
evolving from 0.35 in 1982 to 0.43 at PYI.  This more satisfactory equity-to-
debt ratio will also improve SODEFITEX ability to attract long-term financing
for (i) allowing Government to relend US$0.9 million from the proposed IDA
credit to SODEFITEX (para. 4.11) to finance the crop processing and storage
component of the project and (ii) renewing, when needed, fixed assets not
financed under the project (truck fleet, for example) and which could not be
fully financed by the future operating cash flows. While the CFAF 1.1 billion
increase in permanent funds will improve SODEFITEX net working capital
immediately, it will be necessary to regularly review its working capital
needs so as to maintain an adequate liquidity level and keep its creditkcrthi-
ness and financial leverage.
6.10     Given the proposed financing plan for the project (para. 4.11), pro-
duction objectives over the project period (Table 3.1) and price assumptions
made in this report (para. 8.07) SODEFITEX projected financial statements
which are detailed in Annex 3, Table 5, reflect a substantial progress in
SODEFITEX financial structure compared to the situation in PYO. This improved
financial structure, projected operational results, and a sound financial
management will ensure SODEFITEX financial viability.



- 36 -
C. Government Project - Related Cash-Flow
6.11     The Government cash-flow as shown in Annex 3, Table 7 is positive
through project implementation period and thereafter. CPSP, through its price
stabilization mechanism, and treasury, from increased taxes on profit, will
also directly benefit from the expanding program of SODEFITEX.
VII. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Marketing and ]'rices
7.01     Cotton Lint.  Senegal exports about 70% of the cotton lint produced
and sells about 30o to local textile firms. This percentage may vary,
however, depending on production, since local demand is fairly stable, around
3,500 tons. Cotton exports are done through Compagnie Cotonnière, an exclu-
sive French broker handling most West African cotton production promoted by
CFDT, at a fixed 1/2% commission. Senegal's lint exports account for less than
0.3% of the world export market of close to 4.8 million metric tons. However,
like all the francophone West African countries, Senegal participates in a
grouped selling plan of some 130,000 tons annually, making up 3% of the world
exports and for Senegal, selling only a small proportion of total world
output, the grouped selling plan has the advantage of ensuring that it
receives competitive prices for its output. The main purchasers of Senegalese
cotton exports are France, Taiwan, Morrocco, U.K., Germany and a few other
European and Asian countries. Local sales are made on direct contract with
domestic textile industries based on an export parity price calculated from
quotations supplied to SODEFITEX by the Compagnie Cotonnière. The quantity of
cotton reserved for local industries being fairly stable, extra production
resulting from the project would mostly be exported and there is no risk of
the output not finding a market.
7.02     In the recent past there have been significant improvements in the
quality of cotton produced by Senegal over earlier years, and this better
quality has remained stable over the last two years. The two types of cotton
which have predominated in these two years, are the SIGAL S and the SIGAL,
both strict middling of 1-1/16" making up over 95%O of total production and
that compare favorably with other qualities sold on the European and Asian
markets. SODEFITEX has been making a conscious effort since 1980/81 to
improve the seed quality as well as cultural practices, both factors that
would help maintain the percentage of high quality cotton it produces.
7.03     Prices.  Cotton price quotations are supplied to SODEFITEX by the
Compagnie Cotonnière which monitors the market.  Though prices vary by
quality, the average price obtained by Senegal depends on conditions in the
world market. The average export value of cotton exported by Senegal has
shown a discount of 6 to 13 % between 1976 and 1982 as compared to the cotton
prices monitored by the Bank (e.g. mexican middling 1-3/32"). The discount
though is influenced by the fact that the prices monitored by the Bank reflect
offer prices which in most cases are higher than actual sale prices. Price



- 37 -
prospects for cotton are however relatively good in that Bank projections
foresee a small increase in constant prices whereas most primary commodities
are expected to decline in price in real terms.
7.04     Cotton Seed.  SODEFITEX signed a contract with SONACOS in 1979
whereby SODEFITEX commited itself to sell to SONACOS, for a minimum period of
ten years (up to 1988/89), the total quantity of cotton-seed produced in
Senegal, less the needs for seed and 10% of the total production that may be
kept for sale to livestock owners. The cotton oil produced by the oil mills
is sold either locally, mixing it with other vegetable oils, or exported,
depending on world market prices for vegetable oils. The oil mill is planning
an expansion in its trituration capacity for cotton-seed and therefore the
extra cotton-seeds produced from the project should find a ready market.
There is, besides, a fast-rising demand by livestock owners in the project
zone for cotton-seed estimated at 8,000 tons by PY5. This rising demand
includes feed for oxen to be used as animal traction, an important technical
theme in the project. SODEFITEX'S contract with SONACOS however may limit the
quantities it could keep for livestock owners. It is therefore necessary that
SODEFITEX reviews its contract with SONACOS so as to retain sufficient quanti-
ties of seed to satisfy the demand of the livestock owners. An assurance was
therefore obtained during negotiations that the necessary revision would be
done by the end of 1984.
7.05     Cereals.  The main cereals to be produced under the project are maize
and millet/sorghum. These crops are normally to be bought by the bureau of
food aid (CAA). There have been problems in the past, however, as the CAA has
had difficulties raising funds to buy the quantities supplied by farmers
through their cooperatives and the rural development agencies. A study being
financed by USAID would propose a better organization of cereals marketing.
Meanwhile, SODEFITEX has tried to purchase maize from farmers and sell
directly to the animal feed industries. This procedure has not been too
successful, since the cost price of such maize has been higher than that of
imported maize owing mainly to a high producer price fixed by Government.
However domestic consumption of maize is quite high in the project area and
rising and local feed mills are also gradually shifting to local maize
especially with the recent devaluation of the French Franc. The maize
produced by the project should therefore find a ready market. Import parity
prices have been estimated for the economic analysis, using the projections
made by the Bank.
7.06     Livestock.  Trade statistics show imports in Senegal of a few
thousand tons of high quality meat per year, although imports of milk-based
products are far higher in volume terms. The main project output will be
cattle, which would be sold through existing private channels. Market prices
for cattle in 1982 ranged from CFAF 80/kg for old cows to CFAF 150/kg live-
weight for good stock (US$ 0.24-0.44). These prices are assumed constant in
the economic analysis. Incremental milk output which would be consumed within
the project area would be traded at the present price of CFAF 50/litre
(US$0.15).



- 38 -
B. Recurrent Costs, Cost Recovery and Government Cash-Flow
7.07     SODEFITEX Recurrent Costs.  The large part of recurrent costs for
SODEFITEX activities is normally included in the cotton operating margin.
These involve all costs associated with cotton production, processing and
marketing. SODEFITEX has shied away from other general rural development
activities, except under specific projects (see para. 1.11), since these
generate extra operating costs not covered by regular revenues. In recent
years, SODEFITEX Ias however been under increasing pressure to take respon-
sibility for all rural development activities in its zone of intervention and
under the proposed project SODEFITEX would expand its extension work to
cereals which come in rotation with cotton as well as livestock. This expan-
sion to cereals would slightly increase the number of extension staff but
extension agents are normally financed by Governnent under its annual budgets
and this would con-tinue under the project. The expansion to livestock would
entail only seven new staff since most field work would be undertaken by
presently under-employed personnel of the Livestock Department.
7.08     Farmer Recurrent Costs and Cost Recovery.  One of the largest com-
ponents of project cost will be a program of medium-term credits to farmers to
purchase animal traction equipment.  Recurrent operating and maintenance costs
for the animals and the equipment would be at the charge of the farmers. For
the well component, operating and maintenance costs would be borne by the
community as for the health component. The replenishment of the initial stock
of medicines provided by the project would be done using receipts from sales
for drugs. The operation of the health posts, would however have to be
supported either through the Ministry of Health budget or through the Rural
communities (Communautés Rurales). The maintenance of existing rural roads
and those to be constructed under the project would be incorporated in the
cotton operating margin since the largest part of traffic on these roads is
generated by cotton. The revised CPSP-SODEFITEX agreement should take account
of this (see para. 5.11).
7.09     For livestock inputs, vaccines for rinderpest and CBPP would continue
to be supplied free of charge. All other vaccines, all drugs, mineral sup-
plements and feeds would be sold at cost-plus-prices. The mark-ups average
25% of costs and would, by PY5, generate CFAF 58 million (US$170,000) in
aggregate. This would not suffice to cover the supporting costs of staff,
vehicles and supplies (CFAF 96 million or US$280,000), but mark-ups would be
reviewed annually with IDA during project life in the light of the growth of
demand and those sub-zones where demand was lagging would be examined to
reduce the cost of the promotion effort in those zones. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
7.10     Fertilizer and the Net Price System.  Since the inception of cotton
cultivation in Senegal, all inputs (seeds, fertilizers, insecticides) and
sprayers have been given apparently free of charge to farmers, their cost
being included in the cotton operating margin. This has the advantages of
providing insurance to farmers against crop failure and to free SODEFITEX from
all the problems of debt recording and recovery. However, it also presents
the following inconveniences: (i) it penalizes the most efficient farmers,
(ii) there is the risk of farmers diverting these inputs (particularly



- 39 -
fertilizers) intended for cotton to other crops. To minimize this risk
extension workers have had to play a policing role. The appraisal mission had
proposed to change the net pricing system in order to eliminate this need for
policing and also to rationalize the use of fertilizer. Government is however
opposed to the elimination of the net price system given the risks that could
arise from farmers rejecting a new scheme that requires them to pay for an
input they have come to accept as free. All cotton inputs therefore will be
continued to be supplied by SODEFITEX and financed under the cotton operating
margin.
C. Farm Incomes
7.11     Farm budgets have been worked out for four farm types and these show
that the project would have a positive impact on monetary incomes of farmers
in all four cases. The basis for the farm budgets was derived from a pre-
liminary analysis of a SODEFITEX monitoring study done in 1981/82. The re-
sultant farm budgets are in project files. The main assumptions used in the
farm budgets are:
(i) Equipment to be supplied by the project would permit the farm family
to expand its area cultivated by between 15% to 33% (in three of four
farm models), depending on equipment acquired and the number of
workers in the family and would also permit intensified cultivation
with the farmer moving from a level of semi-intensification, in most
cases, to a full level of intensification;
(ii)  there are three levels of "intensification" in cotton cultivation
with yields at Intensification I at 1,500 kg/ha; Intensification II
at 1,000 kg/ha and cotton semi-intensified; 700 kg/ha; and two levels
of intensification for maize, with intensive I yield at 2,600 kg/ha,
and intensive 2 yield at 1,600 kg/ha. The percentage areas at these
levels for cotton are in the table below;
(iii)  equipment purchased on credit requires a 20% downpayment and repay-
ment of the remainder over the next 4 years at an interest rate of
12%, maintenance and replacement of equipment is 10% of purchase cost
per year;
(iv)  farmers do not pay for any cotton inputs, the latter being paid for
in the cotton operating margin and they receive a net cotton price of
CFAF 70/kg each year;
(v) there is the possibility of drought every 3 years, which will reduce
output by about 45%. Appraisal yield estimates have evened out this
drought by reducing output by 15% per year. In the farm budgets the
appraisal base yield estimates have been divided by 0.85 to obtain
yields without drought, and for drought years (taken as years 1, 4,
7, 10 etc.) the production obtained is reduced by 45 percent; and
(vi)  all crops and inputs are costed in constant 1982 prices; but live-
stock costs and benefits are not included, and are analyzed
separately.



Table 7.1.  Project Impact - Comparieon of Farm Modela
Model A               Model B               Model C                Model D
Unequipped        Partially eguipped                          Partially equipped
5.0 ha                5.0 ha                12.5 ha                6.0 ha
1.  Increruee in cultivated                                15%                    33%                   20%                    0%
arTF6                                          (5.0 - 5.75 ha        (5.0 - 6.65 ha)       (12.5 -15.0 ha)           (6.0 ha)
_10    PY5+           PYO    PY5+             PY0   PY5+           PY0      PY5+
2.    Cotion as % of Total cultivated area           40%      48%           45%      49%           28%    40%           40%        45%
2.1   Cotion intensive I(% of tot.cult.ares)          0%       0%            0%      26%            0%    17%             0%       28%
2.2   Cotton initensive Il ( "    "          l ')     0%      39%           45%      23%           16%    23%           40%        17%
2.3   Cot4on semi-int. (% of tot. cult. area)   4C%            9%            0%       0%           12%      0%            0%        0%
3.    Impoved Cereals as % of tot.cal.area.    24%            35%           29%      39%           20%    32%            32%       32%
4.    Totfl Mandavs                                  559      678           587      717          1406   1634            707       643
PY0        PYl        PY2        PY3        PY4         PY5        PY6        PY7         PY8        PY9       PYIO         PYl7  l
CD
Met Cash Income after
debt service  ('000 CFAF)            122.6      25.1       205.6      245.9      69.9      263.9        272.8      90.6      272.8        284.4    102.1         284.4
Yodel A
Net Cash Inco:ae per manday (CFAF) 219           45         339        381       108        389          402       134        402          419       151          419
--------------------------------------- -----------------------------__------   . ---_----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------
Met Cash Income after
debt service ('000 CFAF)             178.3      67.0       249.6      275.2      88.5      375.3        415.3    149.6       415.3       423.7    185.2          450.9
Model B
Met Cash Income per manday (CFAF) 304           108         390        412        132       561          579       209        579          591       258          628
___________________----   - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - --_-     - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -----------     -  ------------------  __________
Net Cash Income after
debt service ('000 CFAF)            399.3    168.2         621.1      764.0    316.1       908.7        925.7    362.4       934.1        934.1    389.6         961.3
Model C
Nlet Cash Income per manday (CFAF) 284          119         399        526       210        560          567       222        572          572       238          588
-- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- --_- ---_-- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- ---------------------           --------_-----_---__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Net Cash Income after
debt service ('000 CFAF)            222.9      82.3        276.2      360.1     127.8      343.5        345.5     115.8      353.8        353.8    140.0         378.0
Model D
Net Cash Income per manday (CFAY) 315           116         399        561       199        534          537        180       550          550       218          587
___________-------- -- - ------- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - -- - -_ - - -- _ -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- -  -- - --  - - -- -  -- - --  _ -- -  -_ - -



- 41 -
The table below summarizes the results of the four farm models analyzed,
including the principal assumptions concerning intensification by farm model.
7.12     Model A for example looks at a farm family of 9 persons cultivating
5 ha, unequipped in PYO and buying only a plow and a seeder (low-level of
equipment) during the course of the project. This family would be able to
expand the area it cultivates to 5.75 ha by PY5 and increase the area inten-
sified in cotton. The net cash value of production (net of cash and inputs
and debt repayment and after consumption and taxes) would increase from
CFAF 122,600 (US$345) in PY0 to CFAF 263,900 (US$743) in PY5. This income
would increase to CFAF 284,400 (US$800) in PY9 after it has paid off all the
equipment credit.  In the same period net cash income per man-day will rise
from CFAF 219 (US$0.62) in PYO, to CFAF 389 (US$1.10) in PY5 and CFAF 419
(US$1.18) in PY10 (see Table 7.1 below).  For years when drought reduces
output of all crops by about 45% the farm family still has a positive cash
income after debt repayment, consumption and taxes.
7.13     The other three farm models, B, C, and D look at farm families of 9,
18 and 10 persons following different methods in equipping themselves. The
results show net cash income per farm family more than doubling in two cases
(B and C) and almost doubling in the third. In all three farm models, the
combination of increased farm areas (B and C) and increased intensification
(B,C and D) lead to significant increases in both family incomes and net cash
income per man-day. In all cases looked at the project would lead to a more
than doubling of net cash income per man-day.
7.14     Years 1,4,7,10 etc. have been simulated as drought years whereby
total value of production is reduced by 45 %.  In these years the drought
impact is quite severe even though all four farm models have a positive,
albeit small, cash return after consumption and taxes and repayment of debts
as well as after purchase of fertilizer (see table 7.1). The low cash returns
per man-day, in the drought years, should however not affect project results
and debt repayments since farmers normally expect these droughts and build up
reserves in good years and also sell off livestock in bad years to be able to
withstand the impact of the droughts.
7.15     Farm families in the project area are generally poor and a majority
of them have annual per capita incomes below the national average for rural
areas. The impact of the project then would be mostly on the poorer sections
of Senegalese population and as shown by the farm budgets, the project will
permit them to increase their per capita farm incomes by over a 100 percent.
7.16     The average herd-owning family of 12 people in the pastoral zone has
60 cattle.  Those herdsmen who use no inputs other than vaccinations against
rinderpest and CBPP realize incomes of CFAF 215,000, of which 48% in the form
of milk. Those herdsmen who use the present average level of inputs in the
area realize net incomes of CFAF 285,000 after payment of CFAF 11,000 for
inputs; 39% of their income is in the form of milk. Those herdsmen who use
the projected (year 5) average level of inputs in the area realize net incomes
of CFAF 320,000, after payment of CFAF 26,000 for inputs; 37% of their income



- 42 -
is in the form of milk. Presently, herdsmen are to be found at each of the
three levels of input use, and incomes. Current incentives appear to be ample
to encourage livestock input use at the levels projected.
VIII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Direct Benefits
8.01     The main quantifiable benefits of the project would be the increased
production of cotton, for export and of cereals for domestic consumption, meat
and milk, and the road user savings resulting from improving the feeder roads.
At full developmenl annual incremental production for cotton is expected to be
about 23,000 tons of lint and 13,100 tons of cotton seed valued at CFAF 4.2
billion. Incremental maize production at full development would be 12,400
tons valued at CFAF 703 million and additional millet/sorghum production would
be 5.020 tons valued at CFAF 340 million. Incremental cattle production would
be 22,300 head valued at CFAF 460 million and incremental milk output avail-
able for human consumption would be about one million liters valued at CFAF 50
million. Road user savings from the rural road improvement program are esti-
mated at CFAF 357 million per annum after completion of all roads.
8.02     Crop production increases are to be achieved through an expansion in
the cultivated area as well as an increase in yields resulting from the use of
animal traction equipment and intensification techniques. Extension services
would be upgraded through training and research-extension linkages.  The live-
stock components would, in the northern zone, increase calving rates, reduce
mortality and thereby permit a more productive herd structure; in the southern
zone, the main effect would be to reduce mortality as well as to improve the
health and strength of draft oxen. The rural roads component is also expected
to open up new areas of production where because of accessibility problens,
SODEFITEX has had to limit its extension activities, and it is expected to
result in considerable road user savings.
B. Non Quantifiable Benefits
8.03     The research component of the project, could have a significant
impact in improving and sustaining cotton yields, given that cotton research
is not included in the national research project. Individual commodity re-
search programs for maize, millet and sorghum are to be established under the
national project; however the emphasis to be placed on farming systems and
research extension linkage in the research component of this project would
insure that, not only would efforts be made to improve cotton yields but, any
new development from the national research project, in both farming systens
and the covered commodities, could be passed on quickly to the farmers in the
project area. The maize processing component to produce broken maize ("riz de
maïs"), could represent a major breakthrough in cereal technology and would go
a long way to reduce the dependence of Senegal on imported cereals, especially
rice. The pasture management activities of the livestock component in the
northern zone would, if the present encouraging initiatives can be fully
consolidated, be replicable in other parts of Senegal's pastoral lands. The



- 43 -
health and water supply components would contribute towards improving the
general health and sanitary conditions of the rural population and help reduce
the incidence of serious, but easy to prevent and/or treat diseases. The
rural organization components of the project, mainly aimed at improving the
functioning 0f the ABPs would encourage village initiative and permit farmers
to take charge of simple services and hence reduce the role of the government
and its consequent costs.
C. Economic Analysis
8.04     Assumptions.  The following are the main assumptions used in the
economic analysis.
8.05     With and Without Project Situation.  The without project situation is
taken to be the projected production situation for the 1982/83 season (PYO)
(see Table 3.1). All incremental benefits and costs are therefore calculated
with reference to the PYO level, and areas ta be cultivated, yields and input
use are projected to remain at this level without project. Groundnut produc-
tion is assumed not to be affected by the project and hence the with and
without project situations are taken to be the same.
8.06     With project; total cultivated area for cotton is expected to go up
from 44,000 ha in PYO to 58,250 ha by PY5, total maize and millet/sorghumr
areas benefiting from extension, would increase from 9,800 ha to 14,000 ha,
and from 25,400 ha to 32,600 ha respectively. Average yields are projected to
increase from 1,000 kg/ha without project to 1,150 kg/ha at full development
for cotton; 1,800 kg/ha to 2,150 kg/ha for maize, and 900 kg/ha to 1,100 kg/ha
for millet/sorghum.
8.07     Valuation of Costs and Benefits,
Prices. Prices are all expressed in constant 1982 border prices
using the Bank's manufactured goods price index and FOB/CIF price projections
for agricultural inputs and outputs. All prices are net of identifiable taxes
and duties, and local costs are revalued using a Standard Conversion Factor of
0.95.
For cotton. Export parity price for lint and seed.
For cereals. Import parity price, Dakar reference market.
Fertilizer/pesticides. Import parity prices for urea and KCL and
export parity price for TSP.
For cattle and milk. Observed market prices in the project area.
Labor.  Incremental farm labor is valued at CFAF 350 (US$1.03) per
man-day being the observed peak rate for hired labor, and equivalent to
average without project net return per year in the project area.



- 44 -
Benefit Lag. In the agricultural production, benefits normally
accrue about six months after on-farm expenditures and other operating costs
have been incurred. Therefore, the benefit stream has been slipped six
months.
Drought impact. The base yield estimates at appraisal (para 8.06)
assume a drought occurrence every three years reducing output by 45 percent.
This drought impact has been netted out in the base estimates and hence the
yield estimates above (para 8.06) take account of a 15 percent reduction in
yield every year. In the economic analysis therefore no other adjustment in
yield was made for drought.
Road user savings. Total road users savings have been estimated for
the priority A roads proposed to be constructed in the project. The main
assumptions used in the estimation are detailed in project files. These
vehicle operating cost savings are added to the production value to obtain
total project benefits.
Livestock. Livestock benefits and costs have been estimated for the
two zones and added to total production value and road user savings and
project costs respectively.
8.08     Other Assumptions.  Project life is estimated at 20 years with no
residual values. The costs of all project components, including the increase
in SODEFITEX working capital have been counted as project economic costs.
Farm equipment is replaced at the end of ten years after initial investment
(except carts which are assumed to last until end project), and given the
emphasis on blacksmith development in the project, maintenance cost of all
equipment is assumed at 5% of cost after first year of purchase and continued
throughout the project. AIl local cost components, except for incremental
farm labor (valued at CFAF 350/man-day), have been converted to border prices
using a standard conversion factor of 0.95.
D. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.09     Main mixed farming components SODEFITEX.  The economic rate of return
for the base case for the mixed farming components (excluding livestock) and
with total value of production slipped by 6 months, is 25%. For this base
case, a further one year lag in benefits results in a rate of return of 18%
and with the unlikely event that benefits decrease by 20% and costs increase
by 20% at the same time the rate of return falls to 10%.  The effects of other
combinations of benefit decreases and cost increases on the economic rate of
return are shown in the table below.
Table 8.1: Economic Rates of return of Main
Mixed Farming Component
----   - Benefits ------------
Costs          Base Case    Down 10%    Down 20%    Lag 1 yr.  Lag 2 yrs.
Base Case        25             21           17            18           14
Up 10%           21             17           13            15           12
Up 20%           18             14           10            13           10



- 45 -
8.10     The Economic Rate of Return of this mixed farming component is fairly
insensitive to increases in costs or decreases in benefits. Its switching
values at a i0% discount rate is 33% in reduced benefits or 49% in increased
costs, events unlikely to occur.
8.11     Livestock.  In the northern zone, the economic rate of return for the
base case is 22%.  This return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs
and benefits, and even if benefits are down 20% and costs rise 20% the rate of
return would be 15.5%. Switching values are an unusually high 113% increase
in costs or 53% decrease in benefits at a discount rate of 10%. In the
southern zone, the main effect of the project would be reduced mortality by
means of systematic vaccination campaigns. Such activities have high return
and a reduction of small herd mortality of 4% (assumed figure in the analysis)
would have an economic rate of return of some 51%, even if all other para-
meters remained unchanged. This return would be a minimum, since the bulk of
project inputs are by way of drugs and feed supplements, that would improve
herd productivity.
8.12     Total Project.  For the total project, including both livestock
components and the mixed farming components, the economic rate of return is
also estimated at 25%.  In the unlikely event of a 20% decrease in benefits
and 20% increase in costs the ERR falls to 10.4%. Switching values at a 10%
discount rate are 34% in decreased benefits or 52% in increased costs.
E. Risk
8.13     The technical risks associated with the execution of the project are
minimal. Technically, execution of all the components is relatively simple,
except perhaps for the maize processing component. This component, however,
represents only about 0.5% of project costs and does not affect project
returns. Market risks for cotton are acceptable but could be important for
maize where a sustained effort is required by the Government to promote the
sale of local maize. Bank's general strategy, to be further pursued in this
project, is to encourage Government to give some incentives for the consump-
tion of local maize. The possibility that the total cultivated area for
cotton does not reach the level proposed at appraisal is not considered a big
risk because of the relative attractiveness of cotton realtive to other
crops. However sensitivity tests show that in case of a shortfall of 25% in
the incremental area proposed, the rate of return falls from 25% to 21%.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on the
following principal points:
Financial Conditions
(a) Government would permit SODEFITEX to retain 30% of its gross profits
starting from the 1982/83 crop year up to CFAF 550 million to cover
half of the increase its permanent funds, another CFAF 550 million



- 46 -
from the financing of non-incremental quantitles of inputs by CCCE
being used to complement this amount (para. 3.11);
(b)  should any disbursement made from the PDESO revolving fund not be
acceptable to IDA, Government would deposit the corresponding amount
in the account financed (para. 4.12);
(c)  the accounts of SODEFITEX, and PDESO would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and audited financial state-
ments and reports would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the
end of the first year, 1983/84, and within six months thereafter.
each financial year. The auditors' reports will include a
confirmation on whether summary statements of expenditure submitted
as justification for disbursements under categories X and XV
correctly reflect detailed records kept by SODEFITEX and PDESO.
These two agencies would also submit copies of their unaudited
financial statements to IDA within four months of the end of the
first financial year, and within four months thereafter (para. 4.20);
(d) SODEFITEX would set up a budgetary control unit not later than six
months after credit effectiveness (para. 5.07);
(e) subsidies on cotton lint to local industries, if any, would be paid
directly by CPSP and hence SODEFITEX would bill the local industries
for cotton purchased at equivalent FOB prices, unless otherwise
agreed by IDA (para. 5.12);
(f)  SODEFITEX would make medium-term credits only through ABP's, a down
payment of 20% minimum would be required and repayment of the credit
would be over 4 years, maximum, with an interest rate not less than
12%; these terms and conditions of credit would not be changed
without the prior agreement by IDA (para. 5.13);
(g)  Government would not contract to SODEFITEX any activity for which
reliable funding is not secured (para. 6.06); and
(h) SODEFITEX and PDESO would sell all livestock inputs except vaccines
for rinderpest and CBPP at cost-plus prices and the mark-ups would be
reviewed annually with IDA (para. 7.09).
Operational Conditions
(i) the Ministry in charge of "Promotion Humaine" would second four
literacy specialists to train and supervise SODEFITEX zonal chiefs
and prepare teaching materials for the functional literacy program
(para. 3.21); and
(j)  the terms of reference of all expatriate staff financed from IDA
funds would be agreed with IDA (para. 4.16).



- 47 -
(k)  SODEFITEX and PDESO would submit semi-annual reports on the physical
and financial progress of the project within two months after the end
of each semester and will prepare a project completion report not
later then six months after project closing (para. 4.21);
(i) SODEFITEX would conclude agreements satisfactory to InA, with ISRA
and ITA not later than six months after Credit effectiveness, for the
execution of the components to be contracted to those institutions
(para. 5.01).
(m)  the present system of providing and controlling the use of
transportation means to field staff of PDESO and SODEFITEX would be
maintained (para. 5.03);
(n)  Government would employ staff whose qualifications and experience are
acceptable to IDA to fill key PDESO positions of General Manager,
pastoral service chief, and financial manager (para. 5.04);
(o) any changes in the contracts between SODEFITEX and CFDT would be made
only after the prior agreement of IDA (para. 5.05); and
(p) the agreement between SODEFITEX and SONACOS would be revised by the
end of 1984 to permit SODEFITEX to retain sufficient quantities of
cotton seed for livestock owners (para. 7.04).
Disbursement Conditions:
9.02     A condition of disbursement for all PDESO categories would be that
Government transfers PDESO from SODEFITEX to DSPA and gives it a status that
would include at a minimum (i) authorization to receive cash from the sale of
livestock inputs and use it for its operations without going through the
Treasury, (ii) only a posteriori control over PDESO expenditures from its
revolving fund by the government financial controller (para 5.02).
Credit Effectiveness Conditions
9.03     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) establishment of ABPs, by Government, as autonomous entities with the
capacity to borrow (para. 3.20);
(b) meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE
and Saudi Fund loans and the FAC grant (para. 4.05);
(c) the CPSP/SODEFITEX contract is revised to incorporate the following
principal points (para. 5.11):
(i) SODEFITEX is allowed to charge annual road maintenance costs to
the cotton operating margin (paras. 3.23 and 7.08); and



- 48 -
(ii)  authorization to SODEFITEX to retain 305 of its gorss profits
as a reserve fund ("provision de péréquation"), such provision
being limited to CFAF 1.0 billion (paras. 5.11 and 6.05).
(c)  SODEFITEX and DSPA would sign an agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
defining the responsibilities of each party in the execution of the
Southern Zone livestock component (para 5.01); and
(d)  full settlement of past Government and CPSP arrears with SODEFITEX as
as May 31, 1983 plus payment to SODEFITEX of an amount of CFAF 215
million to cover PDESO costs for the interim phase (para. 6.04).
9.05     With the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.9 million (US$16.1 million).



49 -
Annex 1
Table 1
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evolution of Cotton Area, Production and Yields in Senegal
Production in Senegal
Year                 Area       Production          Yields
(ha)          (t)            (kg/ha)
1964/1965             122            38              311
1965/1966             386           268              694
1966/1967           1,038         1,146            1,104
1967/1968           3,047         3,091             1,311
1968/1969           6,448         9,738            1,510
1969/1970           9,805        10,831             1,194
1970/1971          13,618        11,129              817
1971/1972          18,318        21,170            1,155
1972/1973          20,359        23,383            1,143
1973/1974          28,630        32,854            1,147
1974/1975          39,070        42,099            1,078
1975/1976          39,206        30,685              783
1976/1977          43,845        45,207             1,031
1977/1978          47,109        37,166              789
1978/1979          48,299        33,805              700
1979/1980          30,908        26,868              869
1980/1981          29.913        20.607              688
1981/1982          31,977        41,006            1,282



- 50 -
A= 1
Table 2
S=AL
EASTERN SENEWAL RURAL DEVELOPT PROJECT
Evolution of Cotton and Cereal Extension Staff
PYO     PYl        PY2       PY3        PY4      PY5
19783 5 î3-/84   1984/85   i 86  19 -787   1 ê7T88
Village Extension Workers           264       264       271       276       281        286
Zonal Chiefs                         64        64        66        67        68         69
Sectoral Chiefs                      16        16        16        17        17         17
Deputy Sectoral Chiefs               14        16        16        17        17         17
Regional Chiefs                       4         4         4         4         4          4
Deputy Regional Chiefs                4         4         4         4         4          4
Participating fanners            70,965    71,746    73,712    75,145    76,453     77,667
Total Area (ha)                  79,2C0    80,400   80,810    90,770    96,530    102,290
Area/ Village Extension Worker      300       305       313       329       344        358
Area/Zonal Chief                   1,238     1,256    1,224     1,355     1,420      1,482
Area/Sectoral Chief               4,950     5,025     5,301     5,339     5,678      6,017
Area/Regional Chief               19,800    20,100    21,203    22,693    24,133    25,213



- 51 -
A= 1
Table 3
S=AL
EA=  SEAL RURAL DEVE !PPMET POJECT
Input and Farn Implemnts Requirements
PY0     PYl      PY2        PY3      PY4     PY5
1982/83  19 3/84   1904/85   1935/86  1936/87  1937/88
I. Inputs
A. Cotton
Compound fertilizer
(150 lg/ha):t             6,600   6,780    7,298      7,778    8,258   8,738
Urea (25 kg/ha):t           1,100   1,130    1,216      1,296    1,376   1,456
Muriate of Potash
(50kg/ha):t                2,200   2,260    2,433      2,593    2,753   2,913
Insecticide (15 i/ha):
'C00 lit.                 660      678      730        778      826     874
Herbicide (4 i/ha herbicide)
'00O 1it.                  -         1       16         16       20      24
Seeds (65 kg/ha):t          2,860   2,938    3,162      3,370    3,578   3,786
B. Intensified Maize
Urea (1 0 ikha fertilized):t  200     250      290        340      400      470
Herbicide (4 i/ha)  '01) lit.    -      2        4          6        8       8
Selected Seeds (16 kg/ha):t   32       40       46         54       64      75
Thioral: '000 packages         -        -        1          5       10      20
Actellic: '009 packages        -       50       109       200      400   1,C000
II.  Equiinent
Plows: unit                   350   1,509    1,500      1,509    1,500   1,500
Seeders with set of disks:
unit                        1,335    1,000    1,030     1,0o0    1,0C0    1,C09
Hoes: unit                  3,829   2,0C0    2,009      2,099    2,009   2,000
Ridgers:unit                   -   2,000    2,0C0       2,0C0    2,0C0    2,0^0
Carts: unit                    -   1,0C0      1,0E0     1,0^0    1,0C0    1,000
ULV Insecticide Sprayers:unit  750    300      863        310      800      800
Herbicide Sprayers: unit       -      509       250       250      250      250



- 52 -
ANE  2
Table 1
SNGAL
EA=TEN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Project Cost by Component and Time
(CFAF millions)
Pre-Project   PY_       PY2       PY3       PY4       PY5         Total
A.  Crop Production                         -         554       625       640       668       661         3,147
B.  Increase SODEFITEX Permanent Fumds      -       1,021         -         -         -         -         1,021
C. Crop Processing and Storage              -         527       151        86        35         -          8C0
D. Improvement of Field Offices             -         298       176       105        16        16           610
E. Training                                 -         148        88        65        65        63           429
F. Monitoring, Evaluation & Audit           -          58        32        38       141        38           307
G. Assistance to AEPs                       -         120       125       157       205       236          844
H. Feeder Roads                             -         796     1,105     1,093        84        24         3,102
I.  Village Water Supply                    -         100       214        56        43         -           413
J.  Primary Health                          -         103       1G7        59        41        35           345
K. Applied Research                         -         130       104       107        53        43           436
L. Livestock South                          -         135        91        76        96        77           475
M.  PPF                                   142           -         -         -         -          -          142
N.  Livestock North                         -         323       278       217       121        91         1,031
Total Base Costs                      142       4,312     3,097     2,698     1,567      1,285       13,102
Physical Contingencies               -         229       218       183        88        69           787
Price Contingencies                  -         367       584       793       631       669         3,044
Total Project Costs                   142       4,907     3,899     3,675     2,286     2,023        16,932
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule Gf Disbursements cf IDA Credit
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year             Semester              at end cf Semester
SDRE million    (US$ millicn
Equivalent
1983/84                    1              0. 14/              (0.4)
2             0.9                  (1.0)
1984/85                    1              1.8                 (1.9)
2             3.1                  (3.4)
1985/86                    1              4.7                 (5.1)
2             6.4                  (6.9)
1986/87                    1              8.1                 (8.8)
2             9.9                 (10.7)
1987/88                    1              11.4               (12.3)
2             12.7                (13.7)
1988/89                    1              13.9               (15-o)
2             14.9                (16.1)
Closing Date: June 30,1989.
1/   Including refinancing cf PPF (US$ 0.4 million).



- 54 -                                                                                     Au\bi~X3uAb9X,  9
1A2TER'/ SE63/CAL RURAL 0/VILOPMN1NI
SODEFITEX Inc-- ScacementUlgDrc   cscgCrs    lpaczarAayic    vcl  Mthcdc l                                                      ols-   lec
(26A 14i M/ lo.,/Mîllii.- FCFA)
As cf Seceer3/u3              -Spebea
197         197           1979           1990           191            19          (01         (1382)
Prde ro/e-d Cococ-  (cee)                      u3 207        3/ 166        33 836         26 868         23 637         41 33/7                      -          1.    roueeoo /5er tsro/
ScI-es   f Cotîsco Loot (coca)                          16 /30        13 358       12 65/           9 /13          73 335        13 2/           -                             ece   tIt7cc
2.  3i1 Mil/cloro   S-edc cos                                23 762        19 666        16 342         13 70/          9 211        3/9/70                                   2.  /lstsdo coc-   ),cl.o-c, -
3.    r/o/so  lael'.ed  Gcc-d-ct (toc)   21 606                             9 139       40 326         37 371         23 3 63         21 419          -                       3.  /s-ducr-  doerco4. 
doles o) iCre-î  l/ard  rc          ca(tocs)             4957          2094          i411           2 393            933         I231/                                          eroieius/ ;o
4.  lsco-o/r-orleeo  doles                                    7- 11         447 4/3       i /            3 940           6986          6 So          13          133         4      oour  dec-        cî
Coe--  l10in,     or                                   390        3 1d9         3 u33          2 348          2 069         u272                                        ipî
ccor. 1/or loue  cales1                             1 233         1 311           2 21/        I 145          1 34           I683                                       leece-  looe1oc
aies o)  toc-e  seel                                   32/o0                       9             23/            (l4            391                                      Ve -eiecu-sde eu-t
3.1   bc-  oS Se-d Ceteroc                                   78  9aa9                3 116          2 989/         2 810            312          36 .)                               oc t''irstc"--cao
icce csloc tous  ~~~~~~~~~~~~37                        31           360             1              1             273                                               -e s3 r,îsi 
Seed-oe2t14uru21                                                       1653/          î u29          1  12/         271 /13i
Tru/clo_ a prsigco              4/                                             i 23  129        999            713            828                                             <CrsC dis0/iruc
c/cric   hocîl/c   ,ccc                                62                                         26             29              /                                            Ss-cs  de race 6
Micker/F-osIlytroespoetr-c3o31                                                   184            lI             23             36/                                             1-csp-~oc 
/11T rehiolcppce9c                                                                68             5u             41             /0                                             Appui  cecl CF"Vî
3.2  i/ce2cd  011  es                                                                   )              93            31              110                                        O    -     oegeu
doesocueo escsc5/                                      339          096          2/V            36823                         323                                             lécsso   o
I;cttl6 o-d balirg                                     263 229                                  23?;8          14             33450rco   mas,  et                                                       1 
.scbee   n  H-rdllog  -coas                                                  2               I            -                3                                           lucoet'  roc
Qucllto  casessocor  oocc                ~~~          ~~~          ~~      ~~14  16  20  23       28              tcc-ro le  c   e 
3.3    îeleuc.Soc                                        I 323           996         10lu?         L133            I 12           1 2/i                                        .3.  Vsi
Voechouccccd/ccbluocuî.cs  ~~~~~~~112136                                           12303                         13bwie                                                        l c
Ico  ire/lAc ccd  cesciocue            0~~~~~~ 18    230             194           1/1623
/5.  ,uctoc MurIls0) Icoore (busc)                                 1 ~~~623(61/            (7t/;          l6ici            133                                 .teeo  stu    p 
Veoîsoess'   1e7s c                                                       134           163            2351           13                                             hu5        dep)<c
Oces/csd  cepeodltuses                                           623~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3    33       35             33                                              cc ,-cm-
M.  SaIes o) ViCuls ccd  Geosourl.                                                            66            93            Ili            230                                 b.     -t-oe    -eelo.esc   hi
9.  2Lpesarltg Profil )Iccs/                                                                787           L8P            (9c69)           -6V                                 o.  Bîe/le (prt.o-
I0 3    'e--cp crclco~ pro//r (osc)                              c243c          386          (IIV            (3V1         (299)           132                                IV.   Bi-ef/its p  ~~' 
/1.  loe)Crcs- lrVi (cs)51_                                                 /7677)/93/)                              )) Vil             232                                I.   -oicVcc Ssc   -c  i/o
(I. lobiliealooIccI I-dseroresier82                                                       906             366         i 13/            (162>                               Y     Itser.- i-ee-
3.  Pr// .e/s          luxes                                                                 33             /332                          76,                               1 3.  Beoilcu- --cc   -cc/O
*4 o ~. Vseo Pro34/r                                                                          i/              il              8             23                               lu.   mo/c et   I        --c --
/3.  Nec ProV-Ie                                                   69            36            22            22              24             47                                /13.Rslcsc
/   lier   sae ,ciller.  -ogh-e                                                                                                                        cOra,cl  so/e-g.-
2/ Ri-e, sa/ce,                                                                                                                                    el -  Cle
ct    91   c   oa    besi/cedl c-ci                                                                                                                   3/  93, dc,r -       eic   achvcrticrrr
-/ led     errli-er   ccl laceuseelles.- n dc                                                                                                               c   ecrois  ci i         icelcld-



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Tab kt/rTb je.u '
SERNEGUAL
EASTERN SENEGAI, RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECU   /  PROJET DEVELOPPE.MENT RURAL SENEGAL DRIEIETAL
SODEFETEX Seurces and Applicutioms of Funds/Tableau de ressources et emplois SODEFITEX
(CFAF mCllFon/tslllioms FCFA)
As of September 30 / As 30 septembre
1979          1980            1981          1982
Coréoes of Funds                                                                                                        Ressourcés
Et profit  fterr toxes                                    22             22             24              47              Resultat net après impft
Depreciutio-                                             361            150            330             337              Amortisseme..o
SoS-tcéat  Enternul sources                                 383            172             354            384           Rous-tocul ressc,rces propres
I,soolu-'.Trr  borrowints                                 55            122              -               -              Empruîts long terme
Copitol gr-tos                                            (7)           414            432            (112)             Subventions d'equipe--er
Sub-totaS esternal sources                                   48            536             432            (112)         Soss-total ressources externes
Totol Sources                                               431            708             786            272           Total ressourCes
Appliîati-ss uf fends                                                                                                    mplSois
Capital expenditures                                     140           444             627              -               Investissements
Ilcre-se in -et working capitu1                          265           210              31            202              As9t..mtutils fnnds de roulement met
Redemption of 1o-g-t-rm debt                                 26             54             128            70            Remboursememt  dettes l-g terme
Tutu1 Applicatio.s                                          431            708             786           272            Total emplois
Annuel shortfall iE  CPSP contructual puymemts             (900)          (960)          (1137)          162            Montants asnuels comtructuels son verses pur ls CPSP
Resrlting Cash Defieit                                                                                                  Deficit de tresorerie  e resultuot
ASnual                                                  (900)          (960)         (1137)           162               Annuel
Cumulative                                              (900)         (1860)         (2997)         (2835)              Cumule



- 56 -
ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 3
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL DU SENEGAL ORIENTAL
SODEFITEX Balance Sheet/Bilans SODEFITEX 1977-1982
(CFAP miilion/million  FCFA)
As cf September 30/Au 30 septembre
2          2
1977          1978          1979         1980          1981       19821/    (1981)       (1982)
ASSETS                                                                                                                                               ACTIF
1.  CTanent Aunert                                                                                                                                   l.  Actif circulant
Cath                                         31           16            38           48            26          34        0.3         0.3              Disponibilités
Ttadn Accaurts Receinable                2 827         2 249        1 667         1 429        1 212         508        12          19                 Créances d'e-ploitati-a
Stabilieatin Fand (CPSP)                    -           482        1 647         1 770        2 888         285        29           4                 Caisse de anabiîbuaricn  (CPSP)
I--nat-i-es                              3 458         3 986        3 576         3 278        3 081       3 486        31          43                St-uku
OthD r Cnucent Assena                      207           146           142          290          443         807         4.7         9,7              Di-ers
Tacal Gantent Assets                     6 523         6 789        7070          6 815        7 69D       6 123        77          76                Toana  Actif Cinc-lant
2.  FiPda Aussts                                                                                                                                     2.  Actif i.-obilisé
3uildings                                  530          663           69D           872          873          873        -. .anstrntionu
M-ahine-y an-d Equipent                     738          902           978          952           973         973        -            -               Machinns et matériel
Vehicles                                   814          990         1 035           934          973          973        -            -               Véhic-les
OthDe  Fixed ussets                        449           580          572           961        1 527        1 527        -            -               Aunrte immmobilisations
Totar   FiPad Asants                     2 531         3 135        3 275         3 719        4 346        4 346        -                            Total At tif iLrnbiLins  brut
lsu:  Camulative  depecaian              (958)       (1 190)      (1 551)       (1 701)      (2 031)      (2 368)       -           -                mains: Amortissemerts cumulés
Net Pincd Anats                       1 573        1 945         1 724        2 018         2 315        1 978                   24                   Actif Immobllsê Dat
TOTAL ASSETS                       8096         8 734         8 794        8 833         9 965      8 098       109          128                      TOTAL ACTIF
LIA8ILITIES AND EQUITY                                                                                                                               PASSIF
3.  Short tmc  Debt                                                                                                                                  3.  Dettes à ruent terme
Bank Ovendnafn                           3 437         3 997        4 343        4 083         4 594       3 025        46           37               Banques
Trade Accaunts Payable                     217           926          953           817          702         955         7            2               Paurnisseurs
Othen Liabilities                        2 237         1 364        1 007           938        1 346          930       14           12               Autnescréditneus
Tatal Shcrt-term Debt                    S 891         6 287        6 303         5 838        6 642       A 91D        67           61               Tatai Dettns à C-unt terme
4.  Lg-teermAt                                    826           785          812           879          750          680        7.5         8._      4.  Dettes à 1ang tenme
a.  Equity                                                                                                                                           5.  Capita  pnopres
Paid-in Capital                            750           750          750           750          750          750        -            9               Capitl -esé
Retain-d ea1nin8s                          149           146          170           193          218          265        -            -               Resenves ns repont b aouveau
Capital Gnants                             147           438          431           845        1 277       1 165        13           14               Snbentians  dquipement
Cantingency Reserve                        333           328          328           328           328         328        -            -               Pravistans paun nisq-es et chargas
TItal Equity                             1 379         1 662        1 679         2 116        2 573       2 508        25.5         38.9             Tatal Capitaux Pnopreu
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY    8 096            8 734         8 794        8 833         9 965       8 098      108           LOI                      TOTAL PASSIF
6. Net Working Capit1a                            632          502           767           977        1  08       i 210                              6.  Panés de maulement met
7    aRcti                                                                                                                                           7.  Ratits
Quick Retia                               0.52          0.46         0.55          0.60         0.69         0.54                                     Ratio de trésorerie
Curnent Ratia                             1.11          1.08         1.12          1.17         1.15         1.20                                     Ratio de liquidicé génénale
Debt/Toatl A.ssets Rnio                  80.80          0.80         0.80          0.76         0.74         0.75                                     Ratit  d'eeéttement globaI
Lang-term Debt/Eqaity Ratit               0.60          0.47         3.48          8.42         0.29         0.26                                     Retia dette long-terme/Capiaux propres
Equity-to-debt Ratie 2/                    0.20         0.23          0.23         0.36          0.34        0.34                                      Ratio capit.a. p-opnes/-ndettement2/
Permanent Fuods/Tatal Asants uRtit    0.27              0.28         0.28          0.34         0.33         0.32                                      Raci  fladcs permanents/Actif natal
1/ Ua-dited.                                                                                                                                         1/  ona-audité.
2/  Granta i-laded 6 ratia is 0.20 in 1982 if grants tu  PDESO une excilded                                                                          2/  Subvenati.s  iaIons                                     i



EASTERN SENEGAL
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SODEFITEX: Monthly Working Capital Needs and Financing
(Net of CPSP and Govt. Arrears)
Before Recapltalizatlon
crA1
Million
700(} _
609% Mlnlmtim Needs: 5200/7
5()00  _  ________________ __J__                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cunfent Lk  iltis_      *L
Bank Ovwdtatt                                                                                               CunTent Assots
Crfdil trom rut Sçlers                                       oVod<tng Capital
P~~nTra ent \Ioruf aptld
S        O         N        D>   |   .I         f      . - M        A        M         J         J         A         S                             Nofmal Yenf
1982            1                                         1983
Lt rKfV82                                                                                                            End WV83
World lank - 24M4
tJ e



- 58 -
ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 5
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEE9T RURAL SENEGAL ORIENTAL
SODEFITEX Projected Finencial State.ents/Etats Financiers Prévisionnels
Corrent CFAF sillions/Millions de PCFA courant
PYq          PYE          PY2          PY3         PY4          PY5
INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS                                                                                                       COMPTE D'EXPLOITATION PREVISIONNEL
Sales of Cottos Lint (tons)             17000        18000        20433       22433        25323        26795                Ventes coton fibre (tonnes)
Cotton Prie FPore-at ($/kg)l/             1.90         2.12        2.41         2.56        2.75         2.93                 Prie prévisionnel do toton (US5/kg)l/
Solos nf Cotton lit                     11370       13032        16728        19924       23664        26690                Ventes toton fibre
Other Revenoes 2/                         1020         1292        1666         1972         2346        2652                Antres Revtens 2/
Cotai Incone                             1239E       14324       1E394        21896        26910        29342                Total P-oduits don ventes
Operartjg Co-ts 3/                       11785        13624       17564        20833       24860        26152                 Charges dexploitation 3/
Deprecianion                               350          400         500          700          750         750                 Amortissements
Gro.s profit                               255          300         330          363         400          440                 Bénéfice brut totai
Net profit 4/                             52.0        64.3         66.3         23.0        80.4         88.4                 Résultat ont 4/
FUNDS  STATEMENT ITEMS                                                                                                       RESSOURCESCEi  EMPLOIS
1. Saurcrs of Ponds                                                                                                           1. essource
Intersal Cash Flo  S/                402.3        460.3       566.3        773.0        830.4       838.4                   Autofinancement 5/
Long-term  Eorrowings                    -         380          440         450          590         33                       Emprunts à long terne
Share Capital                            -        1100            -           -            -            -                    Copitai sonial
Capital Gront  6/                      40          129.7        603.7       627.0        479.6         81.6                 sEbventions d'équipmenot  6/
Total Snorces                       442.0       2070.0      1610.0       1650.2       1896.0      1450.0                      Total Ressoorcen
2. Applications nf FPnds                                                                                                     2. Eplois
Capital Eopenpditres 6/                 372         900         1500        1700         1750        1250                     Inesniseents 6/
1ncrease in Net working Capital         -          1100           40          40           30           90                   Augmentation Pondo de Roolesent Net
Redemptios ef long-tern Debt            72           70           7E         110          110          112                   Remboarsement dettes long terne
Total Applications                   442         2070        1610         1850         1890        1450                      Total Emploin
BALANCE SHEET ITEMS                                                                                                          BILANS PREVISIONNELS
Cornent honotr                          7600        7700         9100       10500        12000       13000                    Actifs nircolants
Corrnet Liabilities                    6500         5500         6860        8220         9690       10600                    Dettes à  -cart terne
Net Pised Asset   10/                   2000        2500         3500        4500         5500         6000                    Actif immobilié net IO/
Long-torm  Debt 7/                       610         920         1290        1630         2100         2520                    Dettes à long torse 7/
Share Capital                            750        1850         1850        1850         1850        0650                     CapLtal Social
Capital Grants 6/                       1045.0      1174.7       1778.4      2405.4       2885.0       2966.6                  Sub-entions d'equipement 6/
Retained Earnings                        695.0       755.3        821.6       894.6        975.0       1063.4                 Réserves et report à nooveau
Total Assets/Panding                    9600       10200        12600       15000        17500        19000                    Total Actifi/Posnif
Permanent FPnds                         3100        4700         5740        6780         78L9         8400                    Capit.on Permanonts
Non SODEPITEX Asseat 8/                  -           170          810         1710        2780         3610                    Antifs défentiblhe  (liés ac projet) 8/
(pno)ent-rolated)
Net Working Capital                     1100        2200         2240        2280         2310         2400                    Fonds de Roulenent Net
Ratias                                                                                                                         Ratina
Carrent Ratio                           1.20        1.40         1.33        1.28         1.24         1.23                    Ratio de liqaidité generale
Debt/Total Assets Ratic                 0.74        0.63         0.6f        0.65         0.67        0.69                     Ratio d'endettement glohal
Eqoity-to-Debt Ratio 9/                0.35         0.43         0.54        0.52         0.48        0.45                     Ratin capitau  propres/endentetent  9/
Penrnsent FPnds/Total As.sets Ratio 0.32            0.46         0.46        0.45         0.45         0.44                    Ratio Fn-ds persanents/actif ttotl
1/  SAR Pana. 7.03                                                                                                          1/  Voir Rapport d'Evaluation, Para. 7.03.
2/  Cereals, Gronnusats -nd CTtton Sedss.                                                                                   2/  Céréales, Arathides et Graines de coton.
3f  Innluldig Feeder NR.as Maictesas.n.                                                                                     3/  Y aomprin Entretien  pistes rurales.
4/  After Payments te CPSP and after tases.                                                                                 4/  Après paiements à le CPSP et après CepOts.
S/ See Table 6) denailed SODEFITEX Internai Cash FIon.                                                                      5/  Voir Tableîs  6) detail asr napeoité d'autofinasce.ent
6/  Excluding Feeder Roads, Village Water,                                                                                       SODEPITE3.
Primary Health,  Lvweatsnk asd Research.                                                                                6/  Saif pistes rurales, hydraulique villageoise.  Santé
7/  Including US$ 1.6 nillion relent by Goven=sent tn                                                                            priaire., élenage et recherche.
SODEFITEX fron the proposed IDA Credit (6.6 nillios                                                                     7/  Y compris 1.6 millions de dollars US do credit IDA,                  a
in PY1 and 1 million in PY2).                                                                                               retrotédés par le Gouverene=nt à la SODEFITEX nons
8/  Feeder Roads, Village Water, Primary health, Livestock,                                                                      forme de prêt à long terne.
and Resear.h for a tonal of CFAF 4.2 billion or 38% of                                                                  8/  Pistes Rornles, hydraulique gillageoine, Snnté
Projeot Capital Expenditores (0.6 billion in PY6).                                                                          Prinaire , Elevage et Reeherehe.  poor an total de
9/  Capital grents included.  Retie in PYO osd PY1 i  0.20 osd                                                                  4.2 milliards de FCFA ou 38% des dépenses dinvestisse-
0.40 respectively if G-ants are mot innclded.                                                                               ment do projet (0.6 nilliard en PY6).
l1/  Of which peoJeot nelated                                                                                                 9/ Subventionsdéquipment iscluxs. Le ratio en PYO et
PYF      -             PY4   3000                                                                                      PY1 est respentivement 0,20 et 0,40 ni les subventions
PYi    250              PY5   3500                                                                                     sont déduites.
PY2   1200                                                                                                        12/  Dont lié au Projet
PY3   2300                                                                                                             Annee 0: 0; T: 250; II: 1200; III: 2300;
IV: 3000; V: 3530.



SENEGAL
Eastern Senegal Rural Developiment Project / Projet Développement Rural au Senegal Oriental
SODEFITEX Internal Cash Flow / Capacité d'Autofinancement
Current CFAF Million / Millions de FCFA Courant
PYI      PY2       PY3       PY4     PY5
1.  Groas profit from operations       300       330       363      400      440             1. Bénéfice brut total
2.  CPSP intervention (70%)           (210)    (231)    (254)    (280)   (308)               2. Intervention CPSP (70%)
3.  Profit before taxes                 90        99       109       120     132             3. Bénéfice avant impôts
4.  Taxes on profit (33%)               (29.7)   (32.7)   (36.0)   (39.6)  (43.6             4. Impôt sur les bénéfices (33%)
5.  Net profit -/                       60.3      66.3      73.0      80.4    88.4           5. Résultats net -
6.  Depreciation                       400       500       700       750     750            .6. Amortissements
7.  Gross annual cash flow             460.3    566.3    773.0    830.4   838.4              7. Capacité d'autofinancement
8.  Redemption of long-term debt        (70)     (70)    (110)    (110)   (110)              8. Annuités de remboursement
des dettes à long-terme
9.  Net annual cash flow               390.3    496.3    663         720.4   728.4           9. Capacité d'autofinancement nette
1/  Including price stabilization contingency reserve.                1/  Y compris provision de péréquation.
;e



- 60 -                                                                                N._      0 N00E 3
Tubr/TOableu 7
088T7888  SEN3EGAI RURAL OEVEIOPMRRT PR07EI / PROJET DE DOVELOPPFENO9T  RRAIC AU SRNEGA. 0RIETA.
ecerntseeso Frslfrt-Eeleed OseR Fiesu 1'        Msrée brute 8 'cuto-fioauueeere du Coacercececo  'tee au Pro jet   /'
(C/AF 831100en 
2          3           4           5            6          7L10       11i15        16/20       21/33        3-/50
A.  RnurcesA,Rsore
IDA Credit                        185         763       1,145        1,214         972          762          -                                                  -             C,rdit AID
Coettca icing2-        3          285       1.179        1.769 9     1878        1,502        1,179          -           -            -           -             -             Co-fAcaocrrcre
Senega; bunt, Obotîc  -            96         375          554         599         482          350         350         350          333         350 3D 50arlOzapuriu  de 1001741 --
Ictercal Rourcus 4/               790         830       1.063        1,153       1,190       1163         lRRI        1,185        /105         1.135       1,185             tesu.ces  luroces 4'
Cocu..otco ut:                                                                                                                                                                Deat
0 /DEFITEX Cash Flc               460.3       566.3        773.0       830.4       838.4        797.5       797.5       147,5/R'..5              /97,5         /97,5          Caparta7  d autnor accetect
de la 500DFICT"
CFSP                              210          231         254         280         308          339.5       339.5       339.5        339.        39 339.0      339.5          CPSP
Tre_sury                           29.7         32.7        36.0        39.6        43.6         u8.5        u8.O         48.0        48.0        48 C          48.C Crésor
Torl1 Seorces             1.285.0      3.227.0    o,651.0      4,959.0    4,248.0    3,557.0        1,535.0      1,535.0     l,53a.0    1,535.7        1,535.0               -otao
B,  AppO coteont                                                                                                                                                              R,  tpo
Proposed Projcat:                                                                                                                                                             Proet rrepse
Cupiltu. ueotue              390       1,617       2.419       2,583       2,053        1,610C          -           -           -            -            -                  Dpce    leu/ooc
Curreot  upeodittret         170         701       0.052       1,114          693         /01         286          288         288          288          288                 Dépecutu dr/orestac,.enc
50DEFITRR Tncrepertal                                                                                                                                                       Dépensesuac7/tcone l/eu  dr
Operut ig Cos_  5/   /1100        (427/        (633/       (675)       3551)        (413)         -           _            -           -            -foect cereet  de le /000/11/e:
Net Current oEpctdiruteu   /       60         274          419        439          342          288         288         288          288         288          288             Dépenteu cerloteorrt,eeto/
Debt Service              7/                                                                                                                                                  Rercele  de lu Cette:
IDA Ct=itut F.ee-            27           23          16           10           6           2          -            -           -           -                                 .necraoeee--aep.eueee
ccA                 -         2           8          18           27          35          40          42           97          97         178           145                 pID /ptîoeoeaeecoole//
SPD 9/                        034          2.7         6,5        1007         13,9        15,8        16 2         6537        65.7        65.7          -                  /S0 9/
CCCE 1û/                       8.7        42.1        91.5       144,1        187.1       600.2       616.8        616.8        -           -             -C11  131
Total Aoplteetoots           489.1    1296128    2.970.0    3,193.8        2,637.0    2,556.0         963        1,ù6,.5       450.7       531.7          73.0                eal det emois
C.  Surplu   deficit)                                                                                                                                                         C.   rplu /78/Cet)
oerooet                           795,9    1.265,2      0.680.0      1.765,2    1,611,0    1,0010.          /72         467,5    1,584.3       1,053.3      1,101.0           Aetuel
Cecolulatîe                       295.9    2,061.1 3,742.1            5,307.3    7,108.3    8 119.3   -0,u0.3    12/44.8   18.166.3   28,199.3    50,239.3                    Cu:eol5
le su :                                                                                                                                                                       Minst :
Coolcve 0crSOD8FITXt                                                                                                                                                          C-a-oioé d'auoreOaorecr
Cash FOt                 /460.3)  (1,026,6)  (1.799.6)  (2,630)    (3,468.4)  (4,265.9)  (7,455.9/  11,443.4   15.430.9   23,405.9    39,355.9                                de le SOEF'TE1
Net Cu:sulotive
Getrensleo  Surpltus            335.6    1,034.5    1,942.5    2,877.3         3,649.9     3,85334    2,951.4    1,301.4    2,735.4    4,793.4    103,883.4                  rpîu  coAul cr0 do
1/  Correot  tet  unti Yexr 6 acd  cocteot tereu  chereatr,                                                                            1/  Monnuieourne jacquet APnée 6. rosai r onnaie cu etrac
2/  000  ced 50F bers asd FAO grs.                                                                                                     2/PFrEt  de le COCO et da /00 et duc du FAC.
3/   arer an    d                                   h Ceercteet' tteeelutlee  cet te peuleet a financing-                              3/  PrA      t      d-e bhétic aiueF et do   ocercee   ut.
4/  00DEFITEX tueh geceration, out ef vhich e total ut CFAF 1,622.5 pillle oill bO  /OtOed                                             4/  Géeératoer de fondF  par la  0DEFITEXd, d-  actou  del.621,,5
as to C07P fOre  Year 1 te 6, ced CFAF 229.6  il/lu   o Ttouty au tae  Ore/RC.                                                         molloos de tranc CF           vs Ca e t   O PSP de l'-ane 1 A 6
t 229.6 =Oi/Oe     de fracs CFA seraversé ca  Trésor ua
it_OF  d'Oispt s_rle hééoe
5/  Already takec itto .coeutt i  the cut cclaclco cf icternal sourcea                                                                5/  Déjâ pris ce toPpte dac.  le 1 aleul édc  recsources itternes,
6/  Health, Oivestcek, andresearch.                                                                                                    6/  Four les colets SA-t  E4léceger_tlRcherhch.
7/  CeOteect tee et acdOsbored ptts/.%.7/  Cetco degeec stOcpartit  o  ébar.é   (0.50/.
8/  Stood_rd  DA ter=s.                                                                                                                83/  OosdOtteccearoc Dt de l'AID.
9/  30 ye_te  itch 10 yeu_sc  grue peréiod vith Otereet ut 1.5% acd 20 y-ers'                                                          9/  30 ans do-t 10 ans de délai de .rite avecu  tout d---érêt
lecel pcese  vith intetestat 2%.                                                                                                       de, 0.5% et t-rburcsetct  20 us ac  ue taux
13/  15 years eiht 5 yeas  grace per-iod sith  steres us 4.5%.                                                                         i0/  15 a.s doct3 5c  de délci de groc-  coco un tas ducfé8t de 4,5X.
Nets:  S00DFITXX redeX ptiee  cf 1cog-t-e  debce  ar es eclded ciuce it it  paid te SoccFceect.                                       N.B. :Les ocultés de reeboarseocen  des detsu à loncg-tenAe de Oc
SODFITEX se cees peu pri-es e- cerp-e  puicqu'a/lec  oec  payées



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected documents and data available in the Project Files.
A.       Project Preparation Report.
1.       Projet  de  Développemnt  Rural  au  Sénégal  Oriental  et  en Haute-
Casamance, par SONED/COURTOY, Juin 1980.
Rapport de synthèse
Volume 1 - Développement de la Production Agricole.
Volume 2 - Aménagement des périmètres irrigués et des bas-fonds.
Volume 3 - Approvisionnement, Commercialisation, Stockage,
Traitement.
Volume 4 - Alphabétisation fonctionnelle - Coopération et
Mutualité.
Volume 5- Pistes rurales
Volume 6 - Hydraulique villageoise et santé publique Atlas.
Annexe Sociologique
2.       Etude sur les structures et l'organisation de SODEFITEX par SEMA,
Juillet 1980.
3.       Etude gestion comptable et financière de la SODEFITEX, par SEMA, Mai
1980.
B.       Staff Working Papers
1.    Hydraulique villageoise
2.    Primary Health Component
3.    Formation
4.    Développement des organisations paysannes
5.    Alphabétisation fonctionnelle.
6.    Suivi-Evaluation
7.    Pistes rurales - Etude technique
8.    Pistes rurales - Dossier technique d'évaluation
9.    Economic analysis of Rural Roads
10.    Farm - Budgets and Farm gate prices
11.    Programme brisures de maïs
12.    Volet Elevage Zone Sud
13.    Volet Elevage Zone Nord
14.    Analyse financière de la SODEFITEX
15.    Project Costs (computer printout)



CHART I
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENEGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sodefitex Organization
Board of
Dlrectors
Procurement                                        DirectorGeneral                                   Planning, BudgetIng&
Unlt                                         Deputy Director C-eneral                            Budgetary Contrai Unit'
lechnIcal                                  Industrirl                                 Financiol                                Administrative &
Departrnent                                Depor nlent                                Departrnent                           Commercica Department
Regions:                                  Glnneries:                                      ServIces:  Accounting                      Sevlces:  Commercial
- Tambacounda                             - Tambacounda                                           FInanclal                                  Personnel
- Kolda                                   - Velingara                                            Warehouses                                  Payrolt Offkce
- Velingara                               - Kolda
- Sine-Saloum                             - Kahone
DMsions & Units                           Rice Mill: Kedougou
- Training                              Workshop & Garage: Tamba
- Llvestock & Animal Traction'          Transport Coordination Unit: Tamba
- Functional Uteracy'
- Liaison Research-Extension'
- Monitoring & Evaluation
*Positions to be created durlng Project's Implementation                                                                                             IWorid Bank-24790
-P  &



CHIART I I
SENEGAL
EASTERN SENAGAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field SeMvce's Organization
|   Technical        L                             |  Research-Extenslon
|        ~~~Director                                               Coordination 
l~~~~~~~tetc &                                                                               .im  Roo Chef
Functionai Uteracy                Llvestock & Anit al                 Region Chiefs                        Training        |           Monito<tng & Evaluation
Division Chief                    DMsion Chief                   Deputy Region Chiefs                 Division Chief                       Unit Chief
Regional                          Reglonal                         Sector Chiefs                       Regional                            Survey
Uteracy officers              Anirnal Troction Officers           Deputy Sector Chiefs                    Trainers                          Supervisors
i    Village Extension                                                            -49
I   Woik rs       A0
Wodd Bar*-24791






BR DlGS6 8
5 E NFEG AL
~~Foden  15  IF  I  G N I NEASTERN  SENEGAL  RURAL  DEVE LOPMENT  PROEC
PROJET DE OEV&ZOPPFME'NT RURAL AU SF1ENEGAL ORIEN£
'a  f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ef
t   ~~~-  E                                                                                                                                    ,n,na  et.  ~~~~~~.ta i.                                O'SpOttnetttt'tnf~~~01- .ld
SERRA    Nf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  . NNERIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      R,I
(00  ,'>  iOltL>                                                                                                                                                                  ttFtt  t ttn  q nterts                     togt'ta OQD-,
18(50 E                                                                                                                             Uoae.ttiettt'enegeeatStOtttes           '-'   CneE-E~~~~~~~~~~~~Ct. dt -ègtett6,
,DAKARha 
AP  -     -     -     -     -   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                          ttttSd  Pga
t'tnflnhtneht                                                                                                                                                    -)F  mt tOtonnis                                              Iterattoaî bonda 't
'navoratoraoooe.tai,           y                                                                                                                                           htt, tOtO                                     t'nennèneS tleNtFAnaP.eU
la t,,. i ,,,'t,'nns Ot ton                                                                                                                          innnh rt'ttn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~



