Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23692
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39680)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY SEQTOR PROJECT
June 9, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
B 1.00 = US$ 0.0226
US$ 1.00 = B 44.30
FISCAL YEAR
October 1  -  September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)   =   3.2 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.39 square miles (mi2)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             Asian Development Bank
APCU            Action Plans Coordinating Unit
BRW             Bureau of Right of Way
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DOH             Department of Highways
DPC             Department of Pollution Control
ERRs            Economic Rate of Returns
EOP             End of Project
EU              Environmental Unit
FEPS            Final Executive Project Summary
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IEPS            Initial Executive Project Summary
LTD             Land Transport Department
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOSTE           Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
MOTC            Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPVs            Net Present Values
OEPP            Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
PCB             Pollution Control Board
QSR             Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SEA             Sectoral Environment Assessment
TED             Traffic Engineering Division
TSEDU           Transport Safety, Environment and Efficiency Development Unit
TT              Task Team
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:  Ian C. Porter
Sector Director:  Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader:    Alain L. Labeau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        10
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     13
10. Additional Information                                                              14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    49
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   53
Annex 8. Map IBRD 26039                                                                 57
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Pro ect ID: P004800                                      Pro ect Name: HIGHWAYS V
Team Leader: Alain L. Labeau                             TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 9, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHWAYS V                                    L/C/TFNumber: CPL-39680
Country/Department: THAILAND                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/30/1993                             Effective: 05/09/1996         05/17/1996
Appraisal:  05/12/1994                               MTR:                       06/15/1998
Approval:  12/21/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000         09/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOV. OF THAILAND/DEPT. OF HIGHWAY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                             Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                        Jayasankar Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:  Alain L. Labeau                           Maurice Le Blanc
ICR Primary Author:  Alain L. Labeau; Jacques Yenny
(consultant); Manida
Unkulvasapaul
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=UnsatisfactoTy, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The general objective of the project was to provide the necessary transport capacity that Thailand required
after 10 years of sustained economic growth (1986-1996) of more than 8 percent while mitigating the extemalities
associated with road transport such as environmental pollution and traffic safety. The project addressed the
following specific objectives:
a) Promote the implementation of actions aimed at reducing environmental degradation and vehicular
accidents attributable to fast-growing motorization through the establishment of a privately operated
vehicle inspection system;
b) Improve the quality of service of the inter-urban road network through increased road capacity and
improved safety standards of existing roads; and
c) Provide a systematic basis for the establishment of environmental assessment criteria at the design
stage of road construction projects as well as environmental management during and after new road
construction and capacity increases.
The objectives of the project directly addressed the two major issues identified in a Bank economic report
at the time of project preparation. The first issue was that a lack of infrastructure, particularly of transport facilities,
was creating bottlenecks to economic development. The second issue was that the social cost of traffic congestion
and related air pollution would continue to increase if concerted policy actions were not taken. Therefore, the
project objectives were clear and important for the country. They were also in line with the 1994 CAS for Thailand
and were a logical extension of the objectives of the Fourth Highway Sector Project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
At the Mid-term review in 1998, the general project objectives were reconfirmed, while the specific
objectives were rephrased as follows:
a) Strengthen capacity of Department of Highways (DOH) and Office of Environmental Policy and
Planning (OEPP) to integrate environmental concerns into road development projects (originally c.);
b) Continue providing support to Govemment's efforts to reduce vehicular air and noise pollution and
develop road safety competence in the relevant agencies in the pilot provinces so that road safety
action plans can be implemented in these provinces (originally a.); and
c) Improve the quality of service of the inter-urban road network through increased road capacity and
improved safety standards on existing roads (originally b.).
Performance indicators that were not mandatory at appraisal were also agreed on at the mid-term review.
3.3 Original Components:
Road widening, including design and construction supervision      $299.62 million
Institutional strengthening of DOH                                  $1.00 million
Environmental capacity strengthening at DOH and OEPP                $5.00 million
Improvements to DOH's training facilities (financed by              $2.00 million
Asian Development Bank [ADB])
Action plan implementation, including pollution control and traffic safety  $17.90 million
- 2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Revised Component                          Revised Cost          Rating
Civil works sub-projects for road widening            $93.5                S
Consulting services for the design and                $6.0                 S
supervision of DOH's road widening program
Strenghthening environmental assessment at DOH        $1.9                 S
OEPP technical assistance and training to              $5.6                S
Land Transport Department, Department of
Pollution Control, DOH, and MOTC related to air
quality, highway safety improvements, and
institutional development (action plan)
The revised components are the same as the original components, somewhat reformulated. The main
difference between the original and the revised project is that the scope and the cost of the project were reduced to
comply with budget austerity measures imposed after the economic crisis of 1997. The institutional development
component and the improvement of DOH training facilities were to be financed by the Government and ADB.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group did not conduct an assessment of this project. Although the project
objectives and components were clear and appropriate, the ICR finds the quality at entry unsatisfactory. The action
plan was overly complex and some procurement issues were not resolved before the Govemment was invited for
negotiations (see Section 7). The project objectives were consistent with the objectives of the Bank's strategy for
Thailand and the Govemment's priorities at the time. One innovative feature of project preparation was the
Sectoral Environment Assessment carried out before Board presentation. The Sectoral Environment Assessment
evaluated DOH's capacity to address the environmental and social issues related to the execution of highway
projects and proposed a strategy to build the capacity of DOH to address the issues. During project preparation,
DOH agreed to make an effort to increase the awareness and capacity of its staff to integrate social and
environmental concerns into project planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance), and to take
actions to mitigate negative impacts on to local communities and the environment.
The risks of this project were properly assessed. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) pointed out that
implementing the investment program of road works would not present special risks because the proposed road
widening largely followed existing alignments, and sufficient right of way was available. The SAR flagged the main
project risk as the implementation of the Action Plan, which was complex and involved a large number of agencies.
Experience indicats that simpler projects limited to a few counterpart agencies usually are more successful.
However, recognizing the complexity of the issues (emissions control, road safety, and road transport efficiency),
the need to build the capacity of MOTC and DOH, and an opportunity to promote the integration of environmental
and social aspects into the DOH project cycle, the Bank considered that the added value of its support would be
significant.
To mitigate the risks, the SAR proposed close supervision by an environmental specialist and a road
safety expert. Substantial technical assistance was included for the execution of the Action Plan and the EASP.
The project also continued the Action Plans Coordinating Unit (APCU) established under the Fourth Highway Sector
Project. However, the weakness of the APCU and the difficulty of contracting technical assistance were
underestimated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of the project were generally achieved. All physical investments were successfully
completed, with works in various regions increasing the transport capacity on key arteries. All the sub-projects
- 3 -



were carried out within the existing rights of way and no complaints about the execution of the civil works were
recorded. Good progress was made also on mitigating the extemalities of road transport with regard to the
environment and road safety, and a strong foundation was laid for strengthening the management of the highway
agency to improve the quality of its services. In particular, the efforts to build DOH's capacity to address
environmental and social issues were satisfactory, especially given their complex nature.
Environment
The project had two environmental objectives to reduce vehicle air and noise pollution and to integrate
environmental and social concerns into road development projects. Substantial progress was realized on both
counts.
Air Pollution
Leaded gasoline was eliminated and the sulfur content of diesel fuel was reduced to a maximum of 0.25
percent on January 1, 1996. Besides implementing more stringent standards for fuel quality, new vehicle emission
levels and ambient air quality, Thailand has instituted a Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program. The
program started in the Bangkok metropolitan area and is gradually being expanded to the rest of the country. The
components of the periodic inspection system include private vehicle inspection centers, which also do repairs;
commercial vehicle inspection, including of Govemment vehicles; a demonstration inspection center and an
emissions laboratory for in-use vehicles (established under the Fourth Highway Sector Project); and on-road
inspection of vehicles.
The private inspection centers were authorized to inspect the safety and emissions of cars and
motorcycles. Under the project, Terms of Reference were prepared for an assessment of the system of private
inspection centers. Because the Bangkok metropolitan area had already started an assessment of centers under its
jurisdiction, the Bank agreed to await its result. The Bank also suggested that Thailand adopt an altemative model
for inspection by putting into service a small number of efficient, high-volume inspection stations that do not make
repairs and that can be easily supervised. The Bank and the Land Transport Department discussed this issue at
length, but in the end the Bank's recommendations were not implemented. Commercial vehicles such as trucks,
buses, and taxis are subject to emission checks by the Land Transport Department during the annual inspection
required for licensing. These checks are not very effective because of a shortage of equipment and insufficient
inspector training and supervision.
On-road emission enforcement is an important complement to periodic inspection and maintenance
programs. Three organizations have responsibility for on-road enforcement of emissions: the Police, the Land
Transport Department, and the Pollution Control Board under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
(MOSTE). Despite their overlapping responsibilities, the various teams carry out the work diligently, and the level of
fines is high. Nevertheless, excessive emissions (mainly black smoke) and excessive noise remain
significant-almost one-fourth of the vehicles inspected by the police still exceed the standards.
Integration of Environmental and Social Concems Into Road Development Projects
The following technical assistance was provided to DOH and OEPP under the project:
*   DOH-Both the Environmental Unit and the Bureau of Right of Way cooperated closely with the
consultants in developing the following guidelines, and thus will be motivated to implement these
guidelines in the future.
-   Environmental guidelines for the Environmental Unit to prepare environmental assessments for
future road projects.
-   Policy and guidelines for the Bureau of Right of Way to deal with future resettlement. Few cases
required resettlement until now because Thailand has had a policy of right-of-way acquisition and
enforcement (since the eariy 1960s that stands as a model for other countries.)
*   OEPP-Guidelines were prepared and staff trained to improve OEPP's capacity to review and clear
environmental assessment prepared by the various agencies under MOTC, such as DOH for road
projects.
-4-



Road Safety
There were significant road safety developments under the project, but improving road safety is a
long-term process and results take time to materialize. The number of road accidents and fatalities in Thailand has
decreased in recent years (Annex 7). The most encouraging development is the Govemment's decision to deal with
the various aspects of road safety in a coordinated manner that emphasizes enforcement, education, and
engineering. In 1997, the Govemment established the Ministerial Committee on Transport Safety and Management
of National Disasters, with the Prime Minister as Chairman, and the Minister of Transport as Deputy. The
Committee also includes the Ministers of Interior, Education, Health, and Finance.
In 1998, the Committee submitted an Action Plan to the Cabinet to improve Transport Safety. In 1999, the
Committee set up sub-committees for each transport mode and a budget to implement action plans, allocating Baht
9.8 billion over five years to the road sector. Traffic discipline was introduced in school curricula, and the training of
school children is being expanded. Public information campaigns on drinking and driving and other aspects of road
safety and regulation are ongoing. Police officers are trained in surveillance and enforcement of traffic laws.
Program demonstration projects of black-spot alleviation are being conducted with ADB funding. The Road Safety
Action Plan developed under the Fourth Highway Sector Project was useful In the development of the Govemment's
1998 road safety improvement action plan.
Under this project, road safety actions were to be undertaken in two pilot provinces. The two provinces
were very keen and good progress was made using limited provincial resources. Unfortunately, the Govemment
never did use $2 million of the Bank loan that was allocated to procuring badly needed equipment for enforcement
and accident database management. Such equipment would have strengthened considerably the implementation
of the road safety program in the pilot areas. The Govemment also decided not to use loan funds to rectify black
spots, but to do the work with its own funds. Most of the actions recommended in the Safety Action Plan developed
under the Fourth Highway Sector Project were not implemented under the Fifth Highway Sector Project.
Management Strengthening of the Highway Agency
Technical assistance for strengthening the management of the highway agency was obtained at the end of
the project in 2001 after DOH and MOF requested that it be incorporated into the project. The consultant's tasks
were to recommend managerial improvements that would improve the quality of service that DOH provides to road
users and to update the medium- and long-term investment programs that were based on a 1995 study conducted
when economic forecasts were at their peak. The recently completed study was well received by DOH. Before the
end of their study, the consultants conducted two workshops attended not only by DOH staff but also by contractors
and road users. The recommendations for making the highway administration more market- and service-oriented
will be implemented in the Highways Management Project now under preparation for Board presentaton in FY
2003.
The updating of the investment plan was overdue. A Long-term Strategic Investment Study was carried
out under the Fourth Highway Sector Project. According to the Loan Agreement of this project (Schedule 5), the
results of that study were supposed to be discussed with the Bank and a 'time-bound action plan" prepared by
mid-1997. Because of the financial crisis that hit Thailand in 1997, the results of the study were no longer valid.
Traffic had decreased significantly, together with the prospects of attracting private financing for road construction.
The 2001 study provided an opportunity to analyze the trend in highway expenditures, and in particular, to make
recommendations regarding an effective balance between capital investment and maintenance expenditures. The
study also recommended practical ways of financing recurrent maintenance costs from user charges and thereby
secure a sustainable maintenance policy to preserve existing assets. The study has been helpful in the preparation
of the Highways Management Project, which takes up all the elements of the study.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Road Widening
Because this is a sector loan, the SAR for this project made no reference to specific road sections, nor did
it indicate an approximate total length of road widening to be financed under the loan. However, it appears that 11
road widening subprojects totaling about 250 km were identified at appraisal. Because of delays in project start,
these subprojects were either handed over to other financiers (ADB and Japan) or financed from the Govemment
budget. While a new set of seven subprojects with a total length of about 127 km was being established, the
financial crisis struck Thailand in mid-1997. This crisis led to further review and downsizing of the subprojects to
- 5 -



comply with the austerity measures imposed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Reducing the scope of the
subprojects enabled the Govemment to cancel US$64.9 million of the initial US$150 million loan-US$45 million
on December 30, 1998, and $19.9 million on June 23, 2000.
The first civil works contract was signed in July 1998, more than four years after appraisal, and the
remaining six contracts were signed between January and November 1999. Three large contracts along the
Pattaya-Rayong road incurred further delays. These contracts were re-bid twice because of substantial reductions
in scope, including a reduction of the widening work from six-lanes to four-lanes. When the civil works started, they
proceeded on schedule and with good quality. Nevertheless, the late start required two extensions of the original
closing date of June 30, 2000-the first to September 30, 2001, and the second to December 31, 2001. Two
contracts were completed in 2000, and five more in 2001. Supervision by a Thai consultant in association with a
foreign consultant was satisfactory. The road-widening component of the project also included the financing of the
detailed design for the road widening and interchange programs. DOH typically does about half its annual design
work in house, while the remainder is contracted out to local consultants, with some assistance from foreign
consultants for major or especially complex designs. Two civil works contracts were awarded and completed
satisfactorily by the closing date of the project.
Institutional Strengthening of DOH
Section 4.1 discussed the institutional strengthening of DOH. The quality of the consultants' work, both on
DOH management strengthening and on the update of the long-term plan was good, and the two workshops
conducted were well attended.
Improvement to DOH's Training Facilities
Previous Bank projects had financed the construction of two training centers that opened in 1992 and 1993
and are functioning. Some training equipment and aids, however, were insufficient, and housing was needed for
teaching staff. ADB agreed to finance these items under its Second Regional Roads Sector Project.
Environmental Capacity Strengthening of DOH and OEPP
Environmental Unit of DOH. During the early stage of the project, the Environmental Unit was
established under the Planning Division, and two full-time staff members were assigned to it. Under a new DOH
structure, the unit was upgraded to section level under the Planning Bureau, with seven staff positions. At present,
five qualified staff members are assigned to the Environmental Unit. The capacity, qualifications, and performance
of Environmental Unit staff have improved significantly over the past five years.
The Environmental Unit has played an active role in supervising many of DOH's environmental impact
assessments (EIA) and has increased DOH staffs knowledge and awareness of environmental and social issues.
The Environmental Unit also undertakes public consultation when needed and participates in the planning process,
other relevant studies, and the general DOH training program. Equipment, vehicles, and training opportunities
(overseas, in-country, and on-the-job) were provided to the staff through Govemment, ADB, and Bank funding. The
overall capacity and performance of the Environmental Unit with the present number of staff and workload are
considered satisfactory. However, capacity-building efforts must continue to ensure that DOH integrates
environmental and social concems into its operations and that proposed mitigation measures are effectively
executed.
Bureau of Right of Way. Three consultant contracts were funded under the project. Under the first
contract, the operational capacity of the Bureau of Right of Way improved, especially in terms of speed and
performance. At the end of the project, a computerized database and operational local area network were installed
at Bureau of Right of Way/DOH headquarters, to be integrated with DOH's main computerized system and systems
to be established at the regional level. A number of training opportunities were provided to staff.
The consultant also carried out pilot studies on privatizing some of the Bureau of Right of Way's
responsibilities and recommended three approaches to DOH. On the policy framework, the consultants reviewed
and described the issues related to delays in compensation process and payments, which are the main causes of
affected populations' complaints and dissatisfaction. However, the recommendations on policy actions are too
general and unclear in terms of follow-up actions needed, and the quality of the presentation is not very good,
especially the English version. Because of the importance of these issues, the Bank has initiated a follow-up
discussion with DOH as part of the preparation of the new Highways Management Project.
- 6 -



The second contract was carried out under the leadership of OEPP in close cooperation with the
Environmental Unit of DOH. Under this assignment, the capacity of OEPP to carry out post-environmental
assessment evaluation and monitoring was strengthened. Monitoring equipment, vehicles, and training
opportunities were provided to OEPP and DOH staff. The consultant also made recommendations for improving
the effectiveness of the EIA process, taking into consideration the need to ensure effective execution of the
mitigation measures and monitoring.
The third contract signed in early 2001 could not be completed by the end of the project. It covered the
preparation of DOH environmental guidelines and manuals for the planning and design staff, but the proposed
guidelines and manuals are too general and not practical for inexperienced DOH staff. However, training
opportunities, including an overseas visit, were provided under this assignment. Given the need to continue
strengthening the capacity of the Environmental Unit and DOH, capacity-building activities will be continued under
the Highways Management Project.
Action Plan Implementation
Technical assistance proposed for the action plan implementation component of the project was scaled
down substantially. The Govemment was already implementing an air pollution control program (its achievements
during the project's period were detailed in Section 4.1). Therefore, technical assistance concentrated on road
safety. The consultants' performance was satisfactory. However, as mentioned, the Government was unable to
use project funds to procure equipment that would have considerably strengthened the implementation of the road
safety programs developed with the consultants' assistance in two pilot provinces.
In the course of the project, the shortage and weakness of APCU staff became critical because of the
complexity of the action plan and the need to coordinate with so many agencies. Therefore, the role of APCU was
scaled back and its staff was teamed with the more experienced and resourceful Traffic Engineering Division of
DOH for the implementation of the Road Safety Action Plan. The consolidated division became the Transport
Safety, Environment and Efficiency Development Unit (TSEDU). In May 1999, a simplified Action Plan prepared by
MOTC was endorsed by MOF and approved by the Bank. This action plan covers road safety, road transport
efficiency, and road environment management. The progress on implementing this revised plan is indicated by the
key performance indicators in Annex 1.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic re-evaluation was conducted for the seven road sections improved under the project.
Because this was a sector loan, only a tentative list of subprojects was discussed at appraisal. The delays in
project start and the 1997 financial crisis caused the list of roads to be amended. Therefore, the re-evaluated
economic rates of retum (ERRs) and net present values (NPVs) are compared to those of the original feasibility
studies that the Government submitted to the Bank at various times when requesting approval for financing road
sections under the project. The economic evaluation of each road project was carried out by comparing the costs
of construction and maintenance of a road and the anticipated benefits from improvement over a road's assumed
life (15 years).
The economic costs of the project represent outlays, net of taxes and duties, the feasibility study,
engineering design, construction, and supervision of construction. In addition, the costs of routine maintenance and
periodic resurfacing were required to maintain the standard of the road surface before and after the widening
project. The benefits taken into account in the economic analysis derived from savings in vehicle operating costs
and travel time. Vehicle operating costs were calculated for seven types of vehicles-car, light bus, medium bus,
heavy bus, light truck, medium truck, and heavy truck. The basic running and fixed costs relying on vehicle type,
road surface and geometric condition, and operating speed were derived. Detailed calculations are in Annex 3 and
the results are summarized below.
-7-



Road Section              Original feasibility study         Re-evaluation
ERR            NPV             ERR             NPV
1. Lampang-Lamphun: Sect. ll       50            1,648            16             1,074
2. Ubon Ratchathani Bypass         NA             NA              22             1,342
3. Khon Kaen-A. Nam Phong          44            2,388            25             2,499
4. A. Ban Na-Nakon Nayok           59            2,208             18              806
5. Pattaya-Rayong: Sect. l         31            1,594             19            2,414
6. Pattaya-Rayong: Sect II         37            2,228            25             2,455
7. Pattaya-Rayong: Sect III        46            2,913            17             1,509
The re-estimated ERRs range from 16 percent to 25 percent, compared to 31 percent to 59 percent in the
original feasibility studies. The rates are all higher than the minimum return rate of 12 percent, established as the
criterion for including a road in the project. The main reason for the lower benefits is that traffic fell in 1998
following the financial crisis. It grew again in 1999 and 2000, but is still below the levels reached in 1997. The
number of vehicles registered in Thailand has continued to grow every year since 1997, laying a firm basis for
continued traffic growth.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The technical assistance for strengthening the highway agency was procured only in 2001. The
consultants made a number of good recommendations, including the following:
* Decentralize DOH activities and allocate greater responsibility to the provinces;
*   Establish a road rehabilitation and maintenance program based on an up-to-date road management
software;
•   Develop a privatization program for maintenance and rehabilitation;
*   Introduce measures to commercialize the highway sector;
*   Establish a road fund with user charge-based funding mechanism.
These recommendations form the basis for the preparation of the Highways Management Project.
DOH's environmental capacity, awareness, and knowledge have increased significantly. Before the
project, no one was directly responsible for addressing environmental and social issues, despite the government's
requirement that ElAs be prepared for road projects. Now, however, the Environmental Unit is fully in charge of EIA
preparation, including public consultation, local community participation, monitoring, and establishment of policy
and guidelines. Specific requirements for mitigation measures were included in the project contract documents.
The overall capacity of DOH also appears to have improved. Review of many DOH reports, prepared after 1996
under the planning and design bureaus, reveals DOH's commitment to integrating environmental and social
concerns in its projects.
To achieve the objectives of the project, continued efforts in capacity building for environmental issues are
needed. As discussed in Section 4.2, Action Plan Implementation, APCU and the Traffic Engineering Division of
DOH were consolidated into one division, TSEDU, for the implementation of the Road Safety Action Plan. Because
TSEDU has many other priorities, its participation in implementing the road safety action plan was limited. With the
assistance of consultants, the capacity of two pilot provinces to address road safety issues was strengthened, and
these provinces are expected to serve as models for similar programs in the rest of the country.
- 8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The financial crisis that hit Thailand in mid-1997 was an extemal shock that severely affected the project
and forced the Govemment to reduce its scope. In March 1999, The Bank agreed to increase the disbursement
percentage for civil works from 50 percent to 80 percent, to compensate for the shortfall in local funds. This crisis
substantially contributed to the delay (of at least two years) and difficulty in executing the project, especially the
technical assistance activities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government generally fulfilled its obligations under the project, although its frequent interference in
various aspects of the project contributed to delays in implementation.
The Bank and the Borrower held protracted discussions about bidding documents for road-widening
contracts during project preparation. The discussions were complicated by the introduction of new sample bidding
documents by the Bank in January 1995, although procurement policies and procedures affecting highway
construction in Thailand had been an issue in past operations as well. (The ICR of the Fourth Highway Sector
Project refers to "the lack of clear and specific legal provisions allowing Bank's procurement guidelines to override
Govemment regulations when conflicting.") These discussions delayed project negotiations by one year, until
September 1995. Nonetheless, during negotiations, the Bank and MOF did reach agreement on the new
documents. Convincing the executing agency staff to implement the agreement reached in Washington took longer,
however, because no clear and specific legal provisions indicated to the staff of DOH that the Bank's procurement
guidelines should override Government regulations when there are differences between the two. Furthermore,
because the Bank's loan accounts for only two percent of the road budget, staff consider separate procurement
guidelines cumbersome.
The duration of the contract approval process in Thailand also delayed project implementation. It takes the
Borrower one year on average to process a civil works contract from bid opening to signature, including six months
to obtain the clearance of MOTC and the Cabinet. Under pressure from the Bank, DOH reduced to six months the
time needed for the second rebidding of the last three contracts.
The Govemment also interfered in technical matters, particularly the contracting for the Pattaya-Rayong
road. It forced DOH to go through two re-biddings-the first because of a reduction in the road widening from six to
four lanes, and the second because of a further reduction in scope of more than 20 percent. Although it was clear
well in advance of the original closing date and despite repeated wamings from the Bank that an extension would
be needed, both loan extensions were requested only a few days before the closing date. Similar procrastination
led to the impossibility of proceeding with the procurement of road safety equipment for the pilot provinces.
Government policy during the financial crisis led to a significant scale-down of the scope of the technical
assistance, the review and revision of most of the TORs, and many overseas training programs not being executed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MOTC was responsible for executing most of the project through DOH for civil works and the Policy and
Planning Bureau for activities under the action plans for road safety and the environment. The project also included
strengthening of OEPP, an agency under MOSTE. DOH has full capacity to implement civil works and no particular
factors affected contract execution after the contracts were signed. Problems with bidding documents, the
protracted contract award procedure, and the weakness of the APCU have already been mentioned.
MOTC did not second enough staff to work with consultants on road safety. Another weakness was
financial management of the project by MOTC, relying on DOH to coordinate with other agencies involved in the
project. The accounting unit for the project does not perform to expectations and intemal controls are weak. Audits
are carried out by the Govemment's auditor general and were not up to intemational standards and were always
late.
9



5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was downsized because of austerity measures imposed by MOF during the financial crisis.
The Government requested the cancellation of US$64.9 million from the loan. The actual cost of the civil works
component of the project is US$82 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$280 million. The actual cost
of the other components, namely design, construction supervision, institutional development, and execution of
action plans is less than US$7 million, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$46 million. Of this estimated
US$46 million, US$30 million was to be financed by the Government, US$6 million by ADB, and US$10 million by
the Bank. The US$7 million spent on the project came entirely from the Bank. Because of the complexity of the
action plans and the many agencies involved, it is not possible to estimate how much the Govemment spent on
institutional matters and action plan implementation. However, as mentioned in Section 4.1, the Govemment made
substantial achievements on the project objectives, particularly with regard to reducing air pollution, implementing
other environmental measures, and improving traffic safety. A detailed comparison of project costs is in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The road works do not generate revenue. Their sustainability therefore rests on the quality of construction
and maintenance. The quality of the works was high. Maintenance expenditures have decreased since the
financial crisis, and the Bank has pressed the Government to strike a better balance between investment and
maintenance in the road budget. The study of medium- and long-term investment programs conducted under the
project also made recommendations regarding an effective balance between capital investment and maintenance
expenditures. The study also recommended practical ways to finance recurrent maintenance costs from user
charges.
The forthcoming project focuses on maintenance and rehabilitation rather than on new construction. The
latest road condition (with an average IRI of about 3), suggesting that road maintenance has been adequate despite
the recent drop in the maintenance budget. With the expected efficiency gains in road maintenance operations
generated by the forthcoming project, the sustainability of the civil works component of this project is likely.
The technical assistance under the institutional development component was provided toward the end of
the project, leaving the implementation of the consultant's recommendations to DOH. The proposed new project will
strengthen the implementation of this component. On the environmental strengthening of DOH, although the
Environmental Unit was established, significant challenges lie ahead in terms of staffing it adequately,
implementating and monitoring mitigation measures, and mainstreaming environmental and social assessment.
With regard to the pollution control and traffic safety Action Plan components, sustainability is very likely because
MOTC and the Government are committed to these matters, and have achieved substantial progress (described in
Sction 4.1).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations
Upon completion of the civil works, roads were immediately opened to traffic. They will be maintained as
are other parts of the network. No transition arrangements were necessary. Environmental, social, and safety
concems have become a regular part of operations in DOH and are addressed at the design stage of new projects.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal was less than satisfactory. The
protracted implementation of the project indicates that the borrower's ownership of the project was weak.
Preparation was fairly long, with appraisal taking place 18 months after identification. There seems to have been
particular uncertainty about the project size. The project scope was considerably reduced during appraisal at the
Government's request. The Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS) of May 1994 refers to a loan of US$290
- 10 -



million-US$250 million for road construction and US$40 million for implementing the action plans. During
appraisal (also in May 1994), the total loan amount was reduced to US$172 million, with US$150 million for roads
and US$22 million for the action plans. The Govemment had just obtained sizable loans for roads from ADB
(US$170 million) and Japan (US$150 million) and was planning to borrow similar amounts from both in 1995. The
loan was cut further during negotiations to a total of US$150 million, about half the originally planned size, and only
US$2 million for implementing the action plans, one twentieth of the initially planned amount. Athough the Bank
issued the invitation to negotiate four months after appraisal, on September 14, 1994, differences over bidding
documents dealyed negotiations until September 25, 1995.
The first indication of a potential problem is found in the Initial Executive Project Summary of September
1993, which said, 'DOH is very resenfful that as a matter of course, they will be required to use standard bidding
documents for future projects. They have indicated that by being forced to use such documents, the Bank was in
effect showing no confidence in them despite of a thirty year relationship covering 15 or so projects." DOH also
requests "flexibility in adapting the documents to Thai customs." The aide-memoire of the pre-appraisal mission
(January 1994) does not mention bidding documents as an outstanding issues, only the action plans and technical
assistance. However, the matter was raised in the minutes of the FEPS in May 1994: 'the meeting touched briefly
on the potential broader procurement issue between the Govemment and the Bank."
At the SAR yellow cover meeting in August 1994, it was noted that "the Board had approved a revision to
the procurement guidelines dealing with the extension of bid validity on the basis of earlier objections by the Royal
Thai Govemment to the existing clause in the standard bidding documents." and 'It is still unknown whether or not
the Govemment will accept the wording of the revision and any disagreements could have an impact on project
processing." Despite these warnings, the Bank sent the invitation to negotiate on September 12, 1994 for
negotiations to start October 11. On September 28, MOF informed the Bank that 'discrepancies between the Bank
and Govemment procurement regulations need to be resolved... prior to loan negotiations."
The draft legal documents at the time of the invitation to negotiate referred to the 1992 procurement
guidelines. To complicate matters, in January 1995 the Bank issued new guidelines with standard bidding
documents. The Bank sent a special mission to Thailand to discuss procurement documents and attempt to
convince DOH to accept the Bank's new standard bidding documents. The matter was referred to the
Government's attomey general's office and was not resolved for several months because of staff changes in that
office. At negotiations, the Thai delegation agreed to accept the 1995 procurement guidelines for inclusion in the
Loan Agreement. The specific clauses that initially were not accepted by DOH and were subsequently modified
with Bank approval were to be reflected in the Conditions of Particular Application. The project became effective on
May 17, 1996, two years after appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The estimated supervision effort was higher than average. This was explicitly indicated in the SAR and
was attributed to the "complex nature of the Action Plans," which required considerable input from experts in
different fields, such as an environment specialist and road safety experts. Bank staff changed between the end of
negotiations and project effectiveness, and the first supervision team that visited Thailand in June 1996 had no
member with previous involvement in the project. A year later, in June 1997, the Bank staff changed again, after
which there were no further changes, and project implementation finally started in eamest. The mid-term review in
June 1998 was very useful. It led in particular to a streamlining of the action plans and simplification of the
coordination effort among agencies. The Bank agreed with MOTC and DOH that the capacity of APCU to carry out
its role had been overestimated at appraisal, and the project shifted part of APCU's responsibilities for road safety
to the Traffic Engineering Division of DOH and created the new unit, TSEDU, described in Section 4.2.
A Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects panel that assessed the quality of supervision of problem
projects in FYOO-01 found project supervision satisfactory overall as well as in the four categories. The panel noted
also that "within many sub-areas, supervision was found to have been highly satisfactory," despite the fact that in
these years the supervision budget was drastically reduced and the Task Team Leader could not afford to send the
required specialists in environment and road safety on follow-up missions. The panel remarked that the
supervision budget should have been larger to enable the TT to bring in expertise that had earlier on proven to be
very valuable for making progress on the software part of the project."
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance was mixed. The start-up delay created by the lengthy negotiations resulted in the
- 1 1 -



project being seriously affected by the financial crisis that struck Thailand in mid-1997 (three years after project
appraisal), but that nobody could have foreseen three years earlier. Eventually the situation was stabilized through
a solid mid-term review and thereafter, the Bank's performance was satisfactory as indicated above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The uncertainty about project size and composition described in Section 7.1 indicates that the borrower
was not focused on the preparation of this project. Because the action plans required the participation of so many
agencies, there was no clear ownership and responsibility for managing the whole preparation effort. Large loans
were available from ADB and Japan at this time, probably with less conditionality.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The shortcomings in the Govemment's implementation performance have been described in Section 5:
the difficulty coordinabng actions between ministries and agencies, interference in technical matters, the
cumbersome procedure to approve contracts, and procrastination in requesting loan extensions and modifications
of the loan agreement to adapt to changing circumstances.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
After agreement was reached on bidding documents, the performance of DOH was good with regard to
civil works, and contracts were completed mostly on schedule. Implementation of the action plans, particularly
retaining technical assistance, was somewhat protracted, and much of the assistance was obtained in 2001, the
last year of the project. The shortage of qualified staff who could be assigned to work with the consultants resulted
in less-than-optimal use of and benefit from the technical assistance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was mixed.
8. Lessons Learned
Ensure ownership and commitment of the Borrower. Ensuring the ownership and commitment of the
Borrower is a recurring theme in Bank projects and can only be reiterated. It remains very difficult to ascertain
ownership and commitment beyond the desire of most borrowers to obtain needed funds for projects. The software
aspects of the project typically require the most effort during preparation. Changing staff on both the Bank's and
the Borrowers sides generally complicates matters, as the guiding ideas of the new comers are not always in line
with those of their predecessors. Involving more people on the borrower's side in project preparation, through
workshops and other means of information, may help reduce dependence on a few key staff members and gain
greater support for project objectives. However, this makes preparation more time consuming and expensive.
Simplify action plans. In Thailand (as in most countries), coordination between ministries, between
agencies under the same ministry, and even between divisions under the same department is a difficult issue.
Therefore, complex action plans requiring coordinated actions by a number of agencies are virtually impossible to
implement fully. It will be easier to obtain commitment on a few well agreed-upon actions by a few agencies than
on myriad disconnected actions by many agencies. It should be possible to find a few areas that match the
country's and implementing agency's objectives and the Bank's strategic objectives.
Agree early on procurement procedures and documents. This project illustrates the importance of
agreeing on procurement issues in the early stages of a project-it took four years from appraisal for the first
contract to be signed because this was not done.
Ensure that good financial management is In place. Audits for this project were late and not up to
intemational standards. The Bank emphasized this matter less at the time of preparation and appraisal of this
project than it does now. The financial management group in the Bank's field office is taking a closer look at this
matter in the framework of preparing the Highways Management Project, which will focus on improving the financial
management of DOH.
- 12 -



Ensure that Terms of Reference reflect the needs of the agency and that the agency can manage
the contract. Technical assistance for capacity building under all projects varies greatly depending on the team
responsible for the assignment. In this project, consultant performance was mixed. Some reports were too general
and based on principles and experience in developed countries with little relevance to DOH's operations and they
offered few options for technology and cost. There were also language and translation problems. It is difficult for
intemational firms to provide good reports in Thai or for Thai consultants to provide good reports in English. This
raises questions for future projects how best to take advantage of international experience and use it in a fashion
applicable locally; and whether it is necessary and cost-effective to have all reports prepared in both Thai and
English at every stage.
Ensure that the design of capacity-building programs Is flexible and relevant to the needs of the
agencies Involved In the project and that the agencies give adequate priority to this task. The capacities of
the implementing units and competng prioribes have a significant impact on the interaction between an agency and
its consultants and eventually the consultants' usefulness. In some agencies involved in the project, the staff was
very busy carrying out routne activities, and so competing priorities played a significant role. Staff members also
move frequently to other assignments and new staff members with fewer commitments to a particular topic are
assigned. Capacity building is a long-term process and can be affected by changes in Govemment policy,
leadership, or key staff, the design of a capacity-building program should be flexible and relevant to the needs of the
agencies. Leaming by doing may often be a good option. This lesson has been taken into considerabon during
the preparation of the Highways Management Project and its activities to continue building the capacity of DOH in
environmental and social areas.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from MOTC
There are no other comments from MOTC.
Comments from DOH
1. Civil Works
The overall quality of work was generally good, and all contracts proceeded smoothly without any
problems with the contractors. Environmental mitigation measures during construction were incorporated in the
special conditions for each contract, and compliance with these was monitored by the construction supervision
staff. Traffic management during constructon was in accordance with DOH standard procedures.
2. Construction Supervision
The quality of supervision was considered to be satisfactory. The DOH provided its own construction
supervision staff and engaged a Consultant to manage the supervision service, give technical assistance and
discharge the role of 'engineer' under the contract conditions. The volume of supervision was identical to that
provided on previous World Bank-financed contracts.
3. Strengthening of DOH's Management and Updating of Long Term Strategic Investment Plan (Bureau of
Planning)
The main objectives of the consultant's services were split into two parts:
A. Updating of strategic investment plan and asset management policy:
(i)  Updating and modificaton of the strategic plan for the development of the Inter-city Motorway
System and National Highway Network;
(ii)  Updatng assessment of highway maintenance efficiency, particularly relating to contracting out of
maintenance works; and
(iii) Updatng financing options and road user charges analysis.
- 13 -



B. Strengthening of DOH management and service delivery:
(i)  assessing the institutional and management structure of DOH and recommending structural
modifications to meet the requirements of the strategic plan and changing revenue imperatives,
i.e. budgetary constraints.
(ii)  Updating the assessment of DOH administration and operations; and
(iii) Reviewing operations of other comparable highway departments abroad.
The overall quality of work was considered to be satisfactory. Two main parts of work in line with the
objectives of the project were fulfilled. The strategic plan update reveals that the DOH's activities will switch from
construction and development to management and maintenance. Scale and timeframe for this transformation, and
guidance on the implementation of the proposals are provided by the study. The two effective workshops held in
June and August 2001 discussed the management, funding and institutional aspects, and raised awareness of
these changes. Contracting out of maintenance works was emphasized and the use of multi-year performance
based contracts was also recommended to improve standards and realize greater efficiencies of maintenance
works.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There are no cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There are no other partners.
10. Additional Information
All data and information are shown in Annexes 1-6. Additionally, four tables of traffic volume and road
accident data are in Annex 7.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Note: There was no Log Frame Matrix when this project was appraised.
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
tIndlctorfMitrix                  1Projec,ted In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Strengthen capacity of DOH and
OEPP to Integrate environmental
concems Into road development
projects through the EASP.
a) Increased capacties of Environmental  * Training, basic monitoring equipment,  Most training and equipment were
Unit.                                office equipment, and vehicle provided;  provided;
* Existing staff capable to review and
supervise EIA and other related work;  Existing staff (4) have improved their
provide advice and training to DOH  performance as planned.
staff: and participate in discussion with
OEPP.
b) Establishment of a environmental  Committee comprising director or senior  DOH waits until TA is completed before
management committee within DOH.  staff from concemed offices and units  establishing the Committee.
established within DOH; Environmental
Unit holds the secretariat.
c) Operational guidelines and manuals  General environmental guidelines for  Draft guidelines and manuals completed
for planning, detailed design,    DOH, specific guidelines for planning,  but yet to be improved and approved.
construcion, and operations issued.  detailed design, construction, operation,
post-EIA, EIA studies issued.
d) Increased capacity of the Bureau of  * Strategy and action plan to increase  Completed
Right of Way.                       efficiency and effectiveness of land
acquisition and reduce public
complaints formulated.
* Training provided and MIS to speed up
the process Installed.
e) ElAs relative to sub-projects      EIA for sub-projects with no requirement  Completed.
produced.                         for full EIA produced.
f) Increased mondoring capacity of    * Training and equipment provided.   Training and equipment provided,
OEPP.                             * Strategy to improve effectiveness of  guidelines completed and approved.
EIA and monitoring process formulated
(based on experience in Thailand) and
guidelines issued.
g) Closer coordination between OEPP   Improved communicaton.               Environmental Unit and EIA Division
and DOH.                                                                (transport section) of OEPP met regularly
during the consulting services.
2. Continue providing support to
Govemment's efforts to reduce
vehicular air/noise pollution and
develop road safety competence In
the relevant agencies In the pilot
provinces so that road safety action
plans can be Implemented in these
provinces.
a) Vehide inspection/maintenance     Effectiveness of the program evaluated.  Program was evaluated Independently by
program evaluated.                                                      Land Transport Department, Pollution
Control Department, and Bangkok
Metropolitan Area (BMA) using grant and
govemment funds. Reports available in
Thai reviewed by WBOB staff (not
financed under the project).
- 15 -



Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicathrlMatrix          -cProjected j lasit SRX                      ActuallLtest Estimate
b) Avoid further degradation of air quality  Monitoring system in place throughout  Carried out by the govemment as a follow
in the BMA.                       BMA. Municipality enforces a tight   up to the Fourth Highway Project. (not
control.                             financed under the Project).
c) Provincial Road Safety Action Plan  Provincial plan developed on the basis of  Completed, financed by provincial and
developed, to be prepared by the pilot  the nationwide Road Safety Action Plan  govemment budget, with the assistance of
provinces.                        prepared under Highway IV.           the Bank supervision team.
d) New computerized accident recording  Computerized system with protected  Not completed. Difficulties with Police
and analysis system established.  access for Police and MOTC.          Authority to enforce a new system.
e) Accident blackspots identified and  100% in pilot provinces: Phuket and  First phase completed, second phase
low-cost countermeasures          Nakhon Pathom.                       started. Fully financed by provincial and
implemented.                                                           govemment budget.
f) Road safety audit procedures      Safety audit institutionalized as part of  Implemented in pilot provinces and
established and implemented.      detail design engineering.           institutionalized in DOH using trained staff
from Traffic Safety Division.
g) New standards for traffic signs and  Pilot and demonstrate positive impact on  Demonstration projects completed in
road marking implemented as       road safety of proper signage and    Nakhon Pathom.
demonstration projects.           signaling.
h) Pedestrian safety enhanced in the pilot  All highly hazardous locations for  Completed, mainly protection fences and
provinces by implementation of    pedestrian improved by installation of  road markings.
pedestnan facilities, e.g. installation of  appropriate facilites in pilot provinces.
new pedestrian crossings and
footbridges.
3. Improve the equality of service of
the inter-urban road network through
increased road capacity and Improve
road safety standards on existing
roads.
a) Mileage of priority roads widened on a                                 123 km completed of widening from 2 to 4
cost effecive, environmentally                                         and 6 lanes.
acceptable, and traffic safe fashion.
b) Increase of traffic flow.                                              Achieved on project roads (Annex 3).
c) Reduction of accident rate.                                            Accident rates reduced (Annex 7).
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage,of
Estimate      VtWmiate      Appraisal
.Project*Cost By Component   , '. .  |US$ million  U$$ million  __  d_=_7_
Civil Works                                       279.62          82.20
Design                                             10.00           1.68
Construction Supervision                           10.00           1.40
Institutional Development                           1.00           0.76
Environmental Unit                                  5.00           1.29
Training Facilities - Housing                       1.20
Training and Teaching Aids                          0.80
Pollution Control Action Plan                      11.29
Traffic Safety Action Plan                          5.04           1.69
Action Plans Coordinating Unit                      1.57
Total Baseline Cost                               325.52          89.02
Total Project Costs           325.52          89.02
Total Financing Required           325.52          89.02
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category ,.     8 :  I¢BProcurement Method"         NIBF.     Total Cost
ExOn'~1'ur"Catg6r  IB,NCB                 Othe                  ____F__
1. Works                    279.62        0.00         0.00         1.20        280.82
(139.81)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (139.81)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Engineering and              0.00         0.00         20.00        0.00        20.00
Supervision                 (0.00)       (0.00)        (6.00)      (0.00)       (6.00)
Studies and Technical        0.00         0.00         16.40        2.00         18.40
Assistance                  (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.19)       (0.00)      (4.19)
Training                     0.00         0.00         3.50         2.80         6.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    279.62         0.00        39.90         6.00       325.52
(139.81)      (0.00)       (10.19)      (0.00)      (150.00)
- 17 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Excpenditure ategory-       ICB           NCB          Other2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       82.20          0.00          0.00          0.00         82.20
(67.76)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (67.76)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Engineering and                 0.00          0.00          3.08          0.00          3.08
Supervision                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.08)        (0.00)        (3.08)
Studies and Technical           0.00          0.00          3.74          0.00          3.74
Assistance                     (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.74)        (0.00)        (3.74)
Training                        0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        82.20          0.00         6.82           0.00         89.02
_   (67.76)        (0.00)        (6.82)        (0.00)        (74.58)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt      CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works             139.81    139.81              67.76     14.44             48.5    10.3
Design                  4.00      6.00                1.68                        42.0    0.0
Construction Supervision  2.00     8.00               1.40                        70.0    0.0
Institutional Development          1.00               0.76                                0.0
Environmental Unit      2.00       1.00     2.00      1.29                        64.5    0.0    0.0
Training Facilties                          1.20                                                 0.0
- Housing
Training and Teaching                       0.80                                                 0.0
Aids
Pollution Control Action  1.40    9.08      0.81                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Plan
Traffic Safety Action Plan        4.31      0.73      1.69                                0.0    0.0
Action Plans            0.79      0.32      0.46                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
Coordinating Unit
TOTAL                                              74.58     14.44     89.02
- 18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 11 : LAMPANG-LAMPHUN SECT. II
At Km. 30+000                                         Unit: Vehicle/Day      From Feasibility Study
YEAR     PC       LB     MB     HB     LT      MT      HT     TOTAL       YEAR   TRAFFIC VOLUME
2000    6,092    971     5     576    4,638   869     1,165   14,316      1997        15,019
2001    6,316    989     5     591    4,823   895     1,207   14,826      1998        16,308
2002    6,548   1,007    5     606    5,015   922     1,250   15,353      1999        17,708
2003    6,788   1,025    6     622    5,215   950     1,295   15,901      2000        19,230
2004    7,037   1,044    6     638    5,423   979     1,341   16,468      2001        20,884
2005    7,295   1,063    6     654    5,639   1,009   1,389   17,055      2002        22,375
2006    7,563   1,082    7     671    5,863   1,040   1,439   17,665      2003        23,974
2007    7,845   1,102    7     689    6.099   1,072   1,492   18,306      2004        25,687
2008    8,138   1,122    7     707    6,345   1,105   1,546   18,970      2005        27,523
2009    8,442   1,143    8     726    6,601   1,139   1,602   19,661      2006        29,492
2010    8,757   1,164    8     745    6,867   1,174   1,660   20,375      2007        31,701
2011    9,084   1,186    8     765    7,144   1,210   1,721   21,118      2008        34,076
2012    9,428   1,209    9     786    7,436   1,248   1,785   21,901      2009        36,629
2013    9,785   1,232    9     807    7,739   1,287   1,852   22,711      2010        39,375
2014   10,156   1,256    9     829    8,055   1,328   1,921   23,554      2011        42,327
Note:   Evaluation Section collected the Data in base year for forcasting the traffic volume
PC    = Passenger Car  LT  = Light Truck
LB    = Light Bus     MT   = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus     HT  = Heavy Truck
HB    = Heavy Bus
-19 -



Speed on Route 11: LAMPANG-LAMPHUN SECT. II
KmtHour
Year         Statis      RoadConditon  Car   Ught Bus  Medium Bus  Heavy Bus  Light Truck  Medlum Truck  Heavy Truck
2000.2002 Befre ConsbuctIon    2         60      55        50         50       55         50          50
AfterConstruction      1        100      95        80        80       95          70         70
2003-2006 B8fore Conrsuction   2         55      50        45         45       50         45          45
AfterConstruction      1        90       80        75        75       80          65         65
2007   Before Constructon    2         50      45         40        40       40          40         40
Aftr Construction      1        85       80        70        70       75          60         60
2008-2014 Before Consltucton   3         45      40        40        40        40         40          40
AfterConstruction      1        80      75         70        70       75          s0         60
LAMPANG - LAMPHUN Section 11
Speed of vehicles from the Feasibility Study
Unit: Km./Hour
Year          PC            LB            HB            LT            MT            HT
B      A      B      A      B      A      B      A      B      A       B      A
1997     56.0   88.9     54.2   84.1  52.4   79.2   54.2   84.1   52.4   79.2   52.4   79.2
1998     53.2   88.7     51.8   83.9  50.3   79.0   51.8   83.9   50.3   79.0   50.3   79.0
1999     50.2   88.5     49.1   83.7  47.9   78.8   49.1   83.7   47.9   78.8   47.9   78.8
2000     46.9    88.2    46.2   83.4  45.4   78.6   46.2   83.4   45.4   78.6   45.4   78.6
2001     43.4    87.9    43.1   83.2  42.6   78.4   43.1   83.2   42.6   78.4   42.6   78.4
2002     40.8    87.6    40.7   82.9  40.6   78.2   40.7   82.9   40.6   78.2   40.6   78.2
2003     40.0    87.4    40.0   82.7  40.0   78.0   40.0   82.7   40.0   78.0   40.0   78.0
2004     40.0    87.1    40.0   82.4  40.0   77.8   40.0   82.4   40.0   77.8   40.0   77.8
2005     40.0    86.8    40.0   82.2  40.0   77.6   40.0   82.2   40.0   77.6   40.0   77.6
2006     40.0    86.5    40.0   81.9  40.0   77.4   40.0   81.9   40.0   77.4   40.0   77.4
2007     40.0    86.2    40.0   81.6  40.0   77.1   40.0   81.6   40.0   77.1   40.0   77.1
2008     40.0    85.9    40.0   81.4  40.0   76.9   40.0   81.4   40.0   76.9   40.0   76.9
2009     40.0    85.6    40.0   81.1  40.0   76.7   40.0   81.1   40.0   76.7   40.0   76.7
2010     40.0    85.3    40.0   80.9  40.0   76.5   40.0   80.9   40.0   76.5   40.0   76.5
2011     40.0    85.1    40.0   80.7  40.0   76.3   40.0   80.7   40.0   76.3   40.0   76.3
Note:      A    = After construction
B   = Before construction
- 20 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 11: LAMPANG-LAMPHUN SECT. II                                                  Unit: Baht
Cost                                    Benefit
Year Feasibility  Detail  Construction Supervisior Malntenanc  Total  VOC Saving &       Cash Flow
Others
Study    Design    Cost       Cost      Cost                TC Savings
1995     -     3,560,081                                  3,560,081                       -3,560,081
1996                                                             0                                0
1997                                                             0                                0
1998                     49,162,622  788,036             49,950,657                       -49,950,657
1999                    172,472,189  2,468,379          174,940,568                      -174,940,568
2000                    193,500,916  2,472,622          195,973,538   65,390,327    0.0 -130,583,211
2001                                                             0    67,581.193    0.0   67,581,193
2002                                            191,406     191,406   69,835,830    0.0   69,644,424
2003                                            398,075    398,075    80,856,974    0.0   80,458,898
2004                                            413,339    413,339    83,580,814    0.0   83,167,475
2005                                            413,339    413,339    86,389,116    0.0   85,975,777
2006                                            428,603    428,603    89,306,787    0.0   88,878,184
2007                                            428,603    428,603   105,640,135    0.0  105,211,533
2008                                            443,866    443,866   143,522,760     0.0  143,078,894
2009                                            443,866    443,866   148,555,836    0.0  148,111,970
2010                                            462,183     462,183  153,750,532     0.0  153,288,350
2011                                            462,183    462,183   159,158,849     0.0  158,696,667
2012                                            480,499    480,499   164,848,905     0.0  164.368.406
2013                                            480,499    480,499   170,728,373     0.0  170,247,874
2014                   -290,595,009             504,921 -290,090,088  176,848,202    0.0  466,938,290
IRR(%)          =          22.00%
FYRR(%)         =          17.00%
NPV (at 12%)    =     1,626,613,418
- 21 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 11: LAMPANG-LAMPHUN SECT. II                                                  Unit: Baht
Cost                                    Benefit
Year Feasibili  Detail  Construction Supervision Maintenance      VOC Saving &           Cash Flow
Total                 Others
Study   Design     Cost       Cost      Cost                TC Savings
1,995         3,204,073                                  3,204,073                        -3,204,073
1,996                                                           0                                 0
1,997                                                           0                                 0
1,998                   44,246,360   788,036            45,034,395                       -45,034,395
1999                    155,224,970  2,468,379          157,693,349                     -157,693,349
2000                    174,150,824  2,472,622          176,623,447                     -176,623,447
2001                   _                                        0    52,793,982     0.0   52,793,982
2002                                            172,265    172,265   54,530,137     0.0   54,357,872
2003                                            358,266    358,268    61,936,890    0.0    61,578,622
2004                                            372,005    372,005    64,002,755    0.0    63,630,749
2005                                            372,005    372,005    66,121,078    0.0    65,749,073
2006                                            385,742    385,742    68,307,553    0.0    67,921,811
2007                                            385,742    385,742    79,395,103    0.0    79,009,360
2008                                            399,480    399,480    96,570,858    0.0    96,171,379
2009                                            399,480    399,480    99,877,629    0.0    99,478,149
2010                                            415,964    415,964   103,315,890     0.0  102,899,925
2011                                            415,964    415,964   106,864,296     0.0  106,448,331
2012                                            432,449    432,449   110,593,526    0.0   110,161,077
2013                                            432,449    432,449   114,480,243     0.0  114,047,794
2014                   -261,535,508             454,429 -261,081,079  118,492,051    0.0  379,573,130
IRR(From F.S.)  =          44.70%
IRR(%)          =          16 11%
FYRR(%)         =          13.80%
NPV (at 12%)    =     1,074,470,065
- 22 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 212: Ubon Ratchathani Bypass-Km.20
At Km.    3+000                               Unit Vehicle/Da            From Feasibility Study
YEAR     PC     LB     MB     HB     LT     MT    HT     TOTAL       YEAR   TRAFFIC VOLUME
2001    10,943  985    0    1,144  1,945  1,063   308   16,388       1997        20.769
2002    11,307 1,003   0     1,172  2,015  1,093  318   16,908       1998        22,426
2003    11,684 1,021   0    1,200  2,087  1,124   328   17,444       1999        24,217
2004    12,073 1,039   0    1,229  2,162  1,156   339   17,998       2000        25,941
2005   12,475  1,058   0    1,259  2,239  1,189   350   18,570       2001        27,789
2006    12,890 1,077   0    1,290  2,319  1,223   361   19,160       2002        29,771
2007    13,319 1,096   0    1,321  2,402  1,257   373   19,768       2003        31,895
2008    13,797 1,117   0     1,355  2,495  1,295  386   20,445       2004        34,173
2009   14,292 1,138    0    1,390  2,591  1,334   400   21,145       2005        36,608
2010   14,805 1,160    0     1,426  2,691  1,374  414   21,870       2006        39,218
2011    15,336 1,182   0     1,463  2,795  1,416  429   22,621       2007        42,015
2012   15,887 1,205    0    1,501  2,903  1,459   444   23,399       2008        45,013
2013   16,502 1,229    0    1,543  3,024  1,507   461   24,266       2009        48,226
2014   17,124 1,253    0    1,585  3,146  1,555   476   25,139       2010        51,670
2015   17,770  1,278   0    1,629  3,273  1,604   491   26,045       2011         55,362
Note:      PC   = Passenger Ca  LT   = Light Truck
LB   = Light Bus    MT   = Medium Truck
MB   = Medium Bus    HT   = Heavy Truck
HB   = Heavy Bus
- 23 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 212: Ubon Ratchathani Bypass-Km.20
At Km.    15+000                                    Unt: VehicileDay         From Feasibility Study
YEAR      PC      LB     MB      HB      LT     MT      HT    TOTAL       YEAR   TRAFFIC VOLUME
2001     1,586   258     155    233    2,924    389    322    5,867       1997        20,769
2002     1,639   263     159    239    3,029    400    332    6,061       1998        22,426
2003     1,694   268     163    245    3,137    411    343    6,261       1999        24,217
2004     1,750   273     167    251    3,249    423    354    6,467       2000        25,941
2005     1,808   278     171    257    3,365    435    366    6,680       2001        27,789
2006     1,868   283     175    263    3,485    447    378    6,899       2002        29,771
2007     1,930   288     179    269    3,610    460    390    7,126       2003        31,895
2008     1,999   294     184    276    3,749    474    404    7,380       2004        34,173
2009    2,071    300     189    283    3,894    488    418    7,643       2005        36,608
2010    2,145    306     194    290    4,044    503    433    7,915       2006        39,218
2011    2,222    312     199    298    4,200    518    448    8,197       2007        42,015
2012    2,302    318     204    306    4,362    534    464    8,490       2008        45,013
2013     2,391   324     210    315    4,543    551    482    8,816       2009        48,226
2014    2,481    330     216    324    4,727    569    497    9,144       2010        51,670
2015    2,575    337     222    333    4,918    587    513    9,485       2011        55,362
Note:       PC   = Passenger Car   LT   = Light Truck
LB   = Light Bus       MT   = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus     HT   = Heavy Truck
HB    = Heavy Bus
- 24 -



Speed on Route 212: UBONRATCHATHANI BYPASS KM. 34000
_KmlHour
Year              Status           Road CondiWon      Car     Light Bus   Medium Bus     H"vy Bus     Ligh TTruck   Medium Truck    Hoav   Truck
2001-2003    Before Constcon                2            40         40           35             35           40             40              40
Aftr Construction              1            60         60           50             50            sO            50              50
2004-2007    Before Cons-uction             2            40        40            35             35           40             40              40
AfterConstruction              1             60     i6O             50             50            o0             50             50
2008      Before Consiucton              3             30        30           20             20            30             30             30
After Consruction              I            50         50           40             50            50            40              40
2009-2015    Before Construcion             3            30         30           20             20            30            30              30
Ater Construction              1            50         50           40             50            50            40              40
Speed on Route 212: UBONRATCHATHANI BYPASS KM. 15+000
KWHiour
Year              Status          Road CondiWdon      Car     Ught Bus    iedium Bus     H      Bus                 Mdght Tmuk   ium Truck  HNavy Truck
Before Constucion              2            70         65           60             6O            e5 s0                         80
2001-2003
After Construction             1            110       105           80             80           100             60             s0
Before Consnucdon              2            65         60           55             55            80             55             55
2004-2007
After Constrution              1            105       100           75             75            lt             75             75
Befora Consbuction             2            60         55           S0             50            55             S0             50
3006                                                            __
Ater Construction              1            100        95           70             70            80             70             70
2009-2015    Before Constuction             2            55         50           45             45            50            45              45
After Construction             1            100        95           70             70            90             70             70
- 25 -



Ubon Ratchathani Bypass
Speed of Vehicles From the Feasibility Study
Unit: Km./Hour
PC Yer_CLB                    HB              LT            MT              HT
.___     B       A      B       A       B      A       B      A       B   I  A       B       A
1999    47.6    87.1     46.8    82.5  45 9   77.8    46.8   82.5    45.9    77.8   45.9    77.8
2000    46.2    86.8     45 6    82.2  44.8   77.6    45.6    82.2   44.8    77.6   44.8    77.6
2001    45.4    86.5     44.8    81.9  44 2   77.4    44.8    81.9   44 2    77.4   44.2    77.4
2002    45.2    86.2     44.7    81.7  44.0   77.1    44.7    81.7   44.0    77.1   44.0    77.1
2003    45.7    85.9     45.1    81.4  44.4   76.9    45.1    81.4   44.4    76.9   44.4    76.9
2004    47.1    85.6     46.3    81.2  45.5   76.7    46.3    81.2   45.5    76.7   45.5    76.7
2005    43.2    85.4     42.8    81.0  42.5   76.5    42.8    81.0   42.5    76.5   42.5    76.5
2006    40.9    85.2     40.8    80.8  40.7   76 4    40.8    80.8   40.7    76.4   40.7    76.4
2007    40.0    85.0     40.0    80.6  40.0   76.2    40.0    80.6   40.0    76.2   40.0    76.2
2008    40.0    84.9     40.0    80.5  40.0   76.1    40.0    80.5   40.0    76.1   40.0    76.1
2009    40.0    84.8     40.0    80.5  40.0   76.1    40.0    80.5   40.0    76.1   40.0    76.1
2010    40.0    84.8     40.0    80.5  40.0   76.1    40.0    80.5   40.0    76.1   40.0    76.1
2011    40.0    85 0     40 0    80.6  40.0   76.2    40.0    80 4   40.0    76.1   40.0    76.2
2012    40.0    84.8     40.0    80.4  40.0   76.1    40.0    80.4   40.0    76 1   40.0    76.1
2013    40.0    64.1     40.0    79.8  40.0    75.6   40.0    79.8   40.0    75.6   40.0    75.6
Note:    A   =  After construction
B       Before construction
- 26 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 212: Ubon Ratchathani Bypass-Km.20                                               Unit: Baht
Cost                                     Benefit
Year Feasibilit  Detail Construction Supervision Maintenance  Total  VOC Saving 8          Cash Flow
Other
Study   Design     Cost        Cost       Cost                TC Savings
1997                                                               0                                 0
1998                                                               0                                 0
1999                    145,417,824  6,150,871            151,568,696                      -151,568,696
2000                    130,030,222  5,630,516            135,660,738                      -135,660,738
2001                     18,255,488    825,312             19,080,801   57,242,970     0.0   38,162,169
2002                                                               0    58,969,108     0.0   58,969,108
2003                                              594,236     594,236   60,736,527     0.0   60,142,291
2004                                              619,850     619,850   69,513,225     0.0   68,893,374
2005                                              645,464     645,464   71,604,421     0.0   70,958,957
2006                                              671,077     671,077   73,761,242     0.0   73,090,165
2007                                              696,691     696,691   75,972,039     0.0   75,275,348
2008                                            11,900,000  11,900,000  131,977,992    0.0  120,077,992
2009                                                    0          0   160,028,311     0.0  160,028,311
2010                                              696,691     696,691  165,140,057     0.0  164,443,366
2011                                              722,305     722,305  170,457,325     0.0  169,735,020
2012                                              747,918     747,918  175,938,969     0.0  175,191,051
2013                                              773,532     773,532  182,059,728     0.0  181,286,196
2014                                              799,146     799,146  188,201,293     0.0  187,402,147
2015                   -176,222,121               824,759 -175,397,362  194,568,616    0.0  369,965,978
IRR(%)          =          23.73%
FYRR(%)         =          18.69%
NPV(at 12%)     =    1,686,392,039
- 27 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 212: Ubon Ratchathani Bypass-Km.20                                   .         Unit: Baht
Cost                                     Benefit
Year Feasibility Detail  Construction  Supervision Maintenance      VOC Saving &          Cash Flow
Total                 Other
Study  Design     Cost        Cost       Cost                 TC Savings
1997     -       -0                                                                                0
1998                                                              0               0                0
1999                   130,876,042  5,535,784            136,411,826                      -136,411,826
2000                   117,027,200   5,067,465           122,094,665                      -122,094,665
2001                    16,429,940    742,781             17,172,721  47,402,674     0.0    30,229,954
2002                                                              0   48,811,246     0.0   48,811,246
2003                                             534,813    534,813    50,250,574    0.0   49,715,761
2004                                             557,865    557,865    56,595,999    0.0    56,038,134
2005                                             580,917    580,917    58,270,406    0.0    57,689,489
2006                                             603,970     603,970   59,994,581    0.0    59,390,611
2007                                             627,022     627,022   61,758,496    0.0    61,131,474
2008                                           10,710,000  10,710,000  108,368,277   0.0    97,658,277
2009                                                              0   128,322,588    0.0   128,322,588
2010                                             627,022     627,022  131,809,905    0.0   131,182,883
2011                                             650,074     650,074  135,953,172     0.0  135,303,098
2012                                             673,126     673,126  140,216,385     0.0  139,543,259
2013                                             696,179     696,179  144,978,819     0.0  144,282,641
2014                                             719,231     719,231  149,749,377     0.0  149,030,146
2015                  -158,599,909               742,283 -157,857,626  154,691,875    0.0  312,549,500
IRR(From F.S.)  =          62.30%
IRR(%)          =          21.97%
FYRR(%)         =          18.34%
NPV(at 12%)           1,342,372,568
- 28 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 2: Khon Kaen - A. Nam Phong
At Km. 134000                                       Unit: Vehicle/Day          From Feasibility Study
YEAR      PC      LB     MB     HB      LT      MT      HT    TOTAL        YEAR    TRAFFIC VOLUME
2001    7,046    958     178    634   7,849   1,613   1,443   19,721       2001             i
2002    7,276    975     182    649   8,124   1,658   1,489   20,353       2002
2003    7,514    992     186    664   8,409   1,704   1,536   21,005       2003
2004    7,760    1,010   190    680   8,704   1,751   1,585   21,660       2004
2005    8,014    1,028   195    696   9,010   1,799   1,636   22,378       2005
2006    8,276    1,046   200    713   9,326   1,649   1,688   23,098       2006
2007    8,547    1,065   205    730   9,653   1,900   1,742   23,842       2007
2008    8,854    1,085   210    749   10,026  1,958   1,803   24,685       2008          N.A.
2009    9.172    1,106   216    769   10,413  2,017   1,866   25,559       2009
2010    9,501    1,127   222    789   10,815  2,078   1,932   26,464       2010
2011    9,842    1,149   228    810   11,232  2,141   2,000   27,402       2011
2012    10,195   1,171   234    831   11,666  2,206   2,070   28,373       2012
2013    10,579   1,194   240    854   12,138  2,276   2,136   29.417       2013
2014    10,978   1,218   247    877   12,630  2,348   2,204   30,502       2014
2015    11,392   1,242   254    901   13,142  2,423   2,274   31,628       2015
Note:       PC   = Passenger Car  LT   = Light Truck
LB   = Light Bus      MT   = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus     HT  = Heavy Truck
HB     Heavy Bus
- 29 -



Speed on Route 2: KHON KEAN - A. NAMPHONG
__________                                             ~~~~~~~~~~Km)Hour
Year            Status         Road Condition   Car   Ught Bus   Medium Bus     Heavy Bus   Ught Truck    Medium Truck    Heavy Truck
2001-2003 Before Construction           2          75       70          65            65           70             65             65
After Construction           1          110      105          80           80          100             80             80
2004-2007 Before Construction           2          70       65           60           60           65             60             60
After Construction           1          105     100           75           75           95             75             75
2008    Before Construcbon           2          60       55           50            50          55             50              50
After Construction           1          100      95           70           70           90             70             70
2009-2015 Before Constructon            2          55       50           45           45           50             45             45
_ After Construction          1         100       95          70            70           90            70              70
Note: The speed of vehicles in the Feasibility Study Is not available
- 30 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 2: Khon Kean - A. Nam Phong                                                        Unit: Baht
Cost                                     Benefit
Year Feasibillty  Detail  Construction Supervision Maintenanc  Total  VOC Saving   O         Cash Flow
Other
Study    Design     Cost       Cost       Cost                TC Savings
1997            9,666,437                                   9,666,437                          -9,666,437
1998                                                               0                                  0
1999                      129,967,232  8,103,244          138,070,476                        -138,070,476
2000                      273,953,865 17,485,876          291,439,742                        -291,439,742
2001                                                               0   85,415,071       0.0    85,415,071
2002                                                               0   87,982,808       0.0    87,982,808
2003                                              374,189     374,189  90,636,613       0.0    90,262,424
2004                                              391,105     391,105  112,903,505      0.0   112,512,399
2005                                              391,105     391,105  116,344,550      0.0   115,953,445
2006                                              408,022     408,022  119,918,378      0.0   119,510,357
2007                                              408,022     408,022  123,582,805      0.0   123,174,783
2008                                              424,938     424,938  195,581,414      0.0   195,156,476
2009                                              424,938     424,938  293,464,031      0.0   293,039,093
2010                                              441,854     441,854  303,276,486      0.0   302,834,632
2011                                              441,854     441,854  313,470,988      00    313,029,133
2012                                              462,154     462,154  323,971,688      0.0   323,509,534
2013                                              462,154     462,154  335,269,535      0.0   334,807,381
2014                                              482,454     482,454  346,977,658      0.0   346.495,204
2015                     -282,744,768             509,520 -282,235,248  359,117,316     0.0   641,352,564
IRR(%)          =            26.44%
FYRR(%)         =            19.45%
NPV(at 12%)      =      3,045,858,649
- 31 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 2: Khon Kean - A. Nam Phong                                                    Unit: Baht
Cost                                   Benefit
Year   Feasibility  Detail  Construction Supervision Maintenance   VOC Saving &          Cash Flow
Total                Other
Study   Design     Cost       Cost      Cost                TC Savings
1997            8,699,794                                  8,699,794                      -8,699,794
1998                                                             0                                0
1999                     116,970,509  7,292,920          124,263,429                    -124,263,429
2000                     246,558,479 15,737,289          262,295,767                     -262,295,767
2001                                                              0   71,574,175   0.0    71,574,175
2002                                                              0   73,701,038   0.0    73,701,038
2003                                             336,770    336,770   75,900,530   0.0    75,563,760
2004                                             351,995    351,995   94,509,385   0.0    94,157,390
2005                                             351,995    351,995   97,360,834   0.0    97,008,840
2006                                             367,220    367,220  100,325,619   0.0    99,958,399
2007                                             367,220    367,220  103,361,229    0.0  102,994,010
2008                                             382,444    382,444  142,178,293    0.0   141,795,848
2009                                             382,444    382,444  243,376,684    0.0  242,994,240
2010                                             397,669     397,669  251,478,606   0.0  251,080,937
2011                                             397,669     397,669  259,901,990   0.0  259,504,321
2012                                             415,939     415,939  268,571,081   0.0   268,155,142
2013                                             415,939     415,939  277,890,422   0.0   277,474,483
2014                                             434,208     434,208  287,538,880   0.0   287,104,671
2015                    -254,470,291             458,568 -254,011,723  297,550,164  0.0   551,561,888
IRR(From F.S.  -          43.93%
IRR(%)         =          24.92%
FYRR(%)        =          18.11%
NPV(at 12%)    =     2,499,370,151
- 32 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 33: A. Ban Na-Nakhon Nayok
At Km. 124+900                                                  Unit: VehiceJDa
YEAR        PC       LB       MB       HB        LT       MT       HT      TOTAL
2001      2.659     206      119       182     3,659     799      1,443    9,067
2002      2,759     210      122       187     3,806     825      1,496    9,405
2003      2,862     214      125       192     3,959     851      1,551    9,754
2004      2,969     219      128       197     4,118     878      1,608    10,117
2005      3,080     224      132       202     4,284     906      1,667    10,495
2006      3,196     229      136       208     4,456     935      1,728    10,888
2007      3,325     234      140       214     4,648     967      1,796    11,324
2008      3,459     239      144       220     4,849    1,000     1,867    11,778
2009      3,599     244      148       227     5,058    1,034     1,941    12,251
2010      3,744     250      152       234     5,277    1,070     2,018    12,745
2011      3,895     256       157      241     5,505    1,107     2,098    13,259
2012      4,058     262      162       249     5,752    1,147     2,184    13,814
2013      4,228     268      167       257     6,010    1,188     2,274    14,392
2014      4,405     274      172       265     6,279    1,230     2,368    14,993
2015      4,590     280      177       273     6,560    1,274     2,466    15,620
Note:          PC    = Passenger Car       LT   = Light Truck
LB    = Light Bus          MT     = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus          HT    = Heavy Truck
HB      Heavy Bus
The Feasibility Study on the Route Is not available
- 33 -



Speed on Route 33: BANNA-NAKORN NAYOK
_________   ________Km/Hour
Year            Stitus        Road Condition   Car    Ught Bus  Medium Bus    Heavy Bus   Ught Tnruck  Medium Truck  HeavyTruck
2001-2003 Before Construction          2          70       65          60           60          65            60            60
After Construction          1          110      105         80            80         100           80            80
2004-2007 Before Construcion           2          65       60          55           55          60            55            55
After Construction          1          105      100         75           75           95           75            75
2008    Before Construction         2          60        55          50           50          55            50            50
After Construction          1          100      95          70            70          90           70            70
2009-2015 Before Construction          3          55       so          45           45          so            45            45
After Construction          1          100      95          70            70          90           70            70
Note: The speed of vehides in the feasibility study is not available
SPEED ON ROUTE 33 BANNA-NAKORN NAYOK
DIRECTION                               PC        LB         MB            HB          LT           MT            HT
BANNA                    NAKORN NAYOK              104      103         89            97          99           92             78
NAKORN NAYOK             BANNA                     115      100         74            95         103           78             78
AVERAGE SPEED                             109.5    101.5        81.5          96          101           85            78
- 34 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 33: Ban Na-Nakhon Nayok                                                         Unit: Baht
Cost                                    Benefit
Year Feasibilly  Detail  Constructlon Supervision Maintenance         VOC Saving          Cash Flow
Total               Other
Study    Design     Cost        Cost       Cost                 TC Savings
1997            5,916,577                                     5,916,577                    -5,916,577
1998                                                                 0                             0
1999                      134,231,000  4,968,246            139,199,246                  -139,199,246
2000                       42,116,071  1,424,836             43,540,908                   -43,540,908
2001                       45,284.598  1,428,140             46,712,738  30,813,181  0.0  -15,899,557
2002                                                                 0   31,909,453  0.0   31,909,453
2003                                               1,154,321  1,154,321  33,036,457  0.0   31,882,136
2004                                               1,188,024  1,188,024  42,551,505  0.0   41,363,482
2005                                               1,221,727  1,221,727  44,084,280  0.0   42,862,554
2006                                               1,255,429  1,255,429  45,678,510  0.0   44,423,080
2007                                               1,289,132  1,289,132  47,442,597  0.0   46,153.464
2008                                              16,890,860  16,890,860  61,742,299  0.0  44,851,439
2009                                                                 0   95,298,596  0.0   95,298,596
2010                                               1,289,132   1,289,132  99,007,654  0.0  97,718,522
2011                                               1,322,835   1,322,835  102,868,387  0.0  101,545,552
2012                                               1,356,538   1,356,538  107,031,657  0.0  105,675,119
2013                                               1,390,241   1,390,241  111,354,322  0.0  109,964,082
2014                                               1,423,943   1,423,943  115,843,302  0.0  114,419,358
2015                     -132,979,002              1,457,646 -131,521,356  120,494,262  0.0  252,015,617
IRR(%)        =         18.60%
FYRR(%)       =         13.09%
NPV (at 12%)  =     955,526,167
- 35 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 33: Ban Na-Nakhon Nayok                                                         Unit: Baht
Cost                                    Benefit
Year  Feasibility  Detail  Construction  Supervision  Maintenance     VOC Saving          Cash Flow
Total               Other
Study    Design     Cost        Cost       Cost                TC Savings
1997            5,324,919                                     5,324,919                    -5,324,919
1998                                                                0                             0
1999                      120,807,900  4,471,422            125,279,322                  -125,279,322
2000                       37,904,464  1,282,353             39,186,817                   -39,186,817
2001                       40,756,138  1,285.326             42,041,464  27,046,284   0   -14,995,181
2002                                                                0   28,001,976    0    28,001,976
2003                                              1,038,889   1,038,889  28,984,414   0    27,945,525
2004                                               1,069,221  1,069,221  36,541,284    0   35,472,063
2005                                               1,099,554  1,099,554  37,849,099    0   36,749,545
2006                                               1,129,886  1,129,886  39,210,401    0   38,080,514
2007                                               1,160,219  1,160,219  40,713,211    0   39,552,992
2008                                              15,201,774  15,201,774  50,839,421   0   35,637,647
2009                                                                 0  80,734,702     0   80,734,702
2010                                               1,160,219  1,160,219  83,876,723    0   82,716,504
2011                                               1,190,551  1,190,551  87,148,822    0   85,958,271
2012                                               1,220,884  1,220,884  90,679,386    0   89,458,502
2013                                               1,251,217  1,251,217  94,342,753    0   93,091,536
2014                                               1,281,549  1,281,549  98,145,363    0   96,863,814
-119,681,102              1,311,882 -118,369,220 102,083,982  0   220,453,202
IRR(From F.S               N.A.
IRR(%)        =         17.87%
FYRR(%)                 12.77%
NPV (at 12%)  =     805,930,556
- 36 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 36: Pattaya -Rayong Sect. I
At Km. 4+500                   _       _                  Unit: Vehile/Da             From Feasibility Study
YEAR       PC       LB      MB       HB      LT       MT      HT      TOTAL        YEAR   TRAFFIC VOLUME
2001     6,316    1,185     71      301     4,341    420     1,622    14,256       2000        39,332
2002     6,553    1,210     73      309     4,516    433     1,681    14,775       2001        44,026
2003     6,799     1,236    75      318     4,698    447     1,743    15,316       2002        48,105
2004     7,054    1,262     77      327     4,887    461     1,807    15.875       2003        52,562
2005     7,319    1,289     79      336     5,083    476     1,873    16,455       2004        57,434
2006     7,593    1,316     81      345     5,287    491     1,942    17,055       2005        62,758
2007     7,900    1.346     83      355     5,515    508     2,019    17,726       2006        68,577
2008     8,219    1,376     85      366     5,753    525     2,099    18,423       2007        73,925
2009     8,551    1,407     88      377     6,002    543     2,182    19,150       2008        79,690
2010     8,896    1,439     91      388     6,261    562     2,268    19,905       2009        85,906
2011     9,255    1,472     94      400     6,531    581     2,358    20,691       2010        92,608
2012     9,643    1,506     97      413     6,824    602     2,455    21,540       2011        99,833
2013     10,048    1,541    100     426     7,130    623     2,556    22,424       2012        107,622
2014     10,470   1,577     103     439     7,450    645     2,661    23,345       2013        116,021
2015     10,909   1,614     106     453     7,784    668     2,771    24,305       2014        125,075
Note:       PC     = Passenger Car     LT   = Light Truck
LB    = Light Bus         MT   = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus        HT    = Heavy Truck
HB    = Heavy Bus
- 37 -



Speed of Vehicles From the Feasibility Study
Speed on Route 36: PATTAYA-RAYONG SECT. I
___________   __________   _________K         m lH our    _ _ _ _ _
Year         Status     Road Condition  Car  Light Bus  Medium Bus Heavy Bus  Light Truck  Medium Truck Heavy Truck
2001-2003 Before Construction   2        70      65        60        60         65          60          60
After Construction     1        110     100        80        90        100         80          80
2004-2007 Before Construction   2        60      55        50         50        55          50          50
After Construction     1        105     90         75        85        90          75          75
2008   Before Construction    2        55      50        45         45        50          45          45
After Construction     1        90      85         70        75         85         70          70
2009-2015 Before Construction   3        45      45        45         45        45          45          45
After Construction     1        90      85         70        75         85         70          70
Pattaya - Rayong Section l: Speed of Vehicles From the Feasibility Study
Unit: Km./Hour
Year         PC              LB              HB              LT             MT              HT
B       A       B       A       B       A       B      A       B       A       B       A
2000    58.1    83.7    56.1    78.9    54 1    74.0    56.1    78 9    54.1    74.0    54.1    74.0
2001    56.5    83.5    54.7    78 7    52.8    73.9    54.7    78.7    52.8    73.9    52.8    73.9
2002    55.7    83.5    53 9    78.7    52.2    73.9    53.9    78.7    52.2    73 9    52 2    73 9
2003    54.8    83.2    53 1    78.5    51.5    73.7    53.1    78 5    51.5    73.7    51.5    73.7
2004    50.3    82 8    49.2    78.2    48.0    73.5    49 2    78.2    48.0    73.5    48.0    73.5
2005    44.9    82.4    44.4    77.8    43.8    73.1    44 4    77.8    43.8    73.1    43.8    73.1
2006    41.8    81 9    41 6    77.3    41.4    72.8    41.6    77.3    41.4    72.8    41.4    72.8
2007    40.0    81.4    40.0    76.9    40.0    72.4    40.0    76.9    40 0    72.4    40.0    72.4
2008    40.0    80.9    40.0    76.5    40.0    72 1    40.0    76.5    40.0    72.1    40.0    72.1
2009    40.0    80 3    40 0    76.0    40.0    71 6    40.0    76.0    40.0    71 6    40.0    71.6
2010    40.0    79.6    40.0    75.4    40 0    71.2    40 0    75.4    40.0    71.2    40.0    71.2
2011    40.0    78.9    40 0    74.8    40.0    70.6    40.0    74.8    40.0    70.6    40.0    70.6
2012    40.0    78.0    40.0    74 0    40.0    70.0    40.0    74.0    40.0    70.0    40.0    70.0
2013    40.0    77.0    40.0    73.2    40.0    69.3    40.0    73.2    40.0    69 3    40.0    69.3
2014    40.0    76.6    40.0    72 8    40 0    69 0    40.0    72.8    40.0    69.0    40.0    69.0
Note:   A   =   After construction
B   =   Before construction
- 38 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 36: Pattay-Rayong SecL I                                                           Unit: Baht
Cost                                     Benefit
Year   Feasibillt  Detail  Construction Supervision Maintenance        VOC Saving .          Cash Flow
Total                 Other
Study   Design     Cost        Cost       Cost                  TC Savings
1998         X0                                                                                       0
1999                     438,282,588  10,527,694             448,810,282                    -448,810,282
2000                      158,682,606  3,902,054             162,584,660                     -162,584,660
2001                                                                  0   86,237,831    0.0   86,237,831
2002                                                                  0   89,203,003    0.0   89,203,003
2003                                                515,254     515,254   92,309,374    0.0   91,794,120
2004                                                532,429     532,429  139,817,689    0.0  139,285,260
2005                                                549,604     549,604  144,661,547    0.0  144,111,943
2006                                                566,779     566,779  149,678,746    0.0  149,111,967
2007                                                583,954     583,954  155,251,779    0.0  154,667,825
2008                                              13,735,575  13,735,575  191,886,097   0.0  178,150,522
2009                                                0                 0  209,873,002    0.0  209,873,002
2010                                                583,954     583.954  218,864,653    0.0  218,280,699
2011                                                601,129     601,129  228,242,943    0.0  227,641,814
2012                                                618,304     618,304  238,408,184    0.0  237,789,879
2013                                                635,480     635,480  248,974,514    0.0  248,339,034
2014                                                652,655     652,655  260,019,208    0.0  259,366,553
2015                    -417,875,636                669,830  -417,205,806  271,524,807  0.0  688,730,613
IRR(5)                    19.23%
FYRR(%)        =          14.11%
NPV (at 12%)   =    2,511,189,124
- 39 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 36: Pattay-Rayong Sect. I                                                        Unit: Baht
Cost                                    Benefit
Year   Feasibility  Detail  Construction Supervision Maintenance     VOC Saving &         Cash Flow
Total                Other
Study   Design     Cost        Cost      Cost                 TC Savings
1997      -0                                                                                       01
1998                                                                0                              0
1999                      394,454,329  9,474,925           403,929,254                    -403,929,254
2000                      142,814,346  3,511,849           146,326,195                    -146,326,195
2001                                                                0 t  69,309,380   0.0   69,309,380
2002                                                                0   71,644,840    0.0   71,644,840
2003                                               463.728     463,728  74,098,942    0.0   73,635,214
2004                                               479,186     479,186  112,028,538   0.0  111,549,352
2005                                               494,644     494,644  115,859,638   0.0  115,364,994
2006                                               510,101     510,101  119,831,250   0.0  119,321,149
2007                                               525,559     525,559  124,232,839   0.0  123,707,280
2008                                             12,362,018  12,362,018  147,751,072  0.0  135,389,054
2009                                                                0  225,308,169    0.0  225,308,169
2010                                               525,559     525,559  233,816,284   0.0  233,290,725
2011                                               541,016     541,016  242,689,332   0.0  242,148,316
2012                                               556,474     556,474  252,241,622   0.0  251,685,148
2013                                               571,932     571,932  262,155,100   0.0  261,583,168
2014                                               587,389     587,389  272,477,562   0.0  271,890,173
2015                    -376,088,072               602,847 -375,485,225  283,220,816  0.0  658,706,041
IRR(From F.S.  =         40.24%
IRR(%)         =         18.91%
FYRR(%)        =         12.60%
NPV (at 12%)   =    2,414,277,555
-40 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 36: Pattaya-Rayong Sect. II
At Km. 39+500              _                                Unit: VehicleDay           From Feasibility Study
YEAR       PC       LB       MB      HB      LT       MT        HT     TOTAL       YEAR   TRAFFIC VOLUME
2001     6,833     972      161     322     7,508     736     2,874    19,406      2000         30,787
2002     7,089     993      165     331     7,810     760     2,979    20,127      2001         34,498
2003     7,355     1,014    170     340     8,124     784     3,088    20,875      2002         37,610
2004     7,631     1,035    175     349     8,451     809     3,201    21,651      2003         41,004
2005     7,917     1,057    180     359     8,791     835     3,318    22,457      2004         44,705
2006     8,214     1,079    185     369     9,144     862     3,439    23,292      2005         48,741
2007     8,522     1,102    190     379     9,512     890     3,565    24,160      2006         53,143
2008     8,866     1,127    196     390     9,923     921     3,706    25,129      2007         57,453
2009     9,224     1,152    202     402    10,352     953     3,853    26,138      2008         62,114
2010     9,597     1,178    208     414    10,799     986     4,006    27,188      2009         67,153
2011     9,985     1,205    214     426    11,266    1,020    4,165    28,281      2010         72,601
2012     10,388    1,232    220     439    11,753    1,055    4,330    29,417      2011         78,492
2013     10,824    1,261    227     453    12,280    1,093    4,508    30,646      2012         84,862
2014     11,278    1,290    234     467    12,830    1,132    4,694    31,925      2013         91,749
2015     11,751   1,320     241     482    13,405    1,172    4,888    33,259      2014         99,197
2016     12,244    1,351    249     497    14,006    1,214    5,090    34,651
Note:       PC     = Passenger Car     LT   = Light Truck
LB    = Light Bus         MT   = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus        HT    = Heavy Truck
HB    = Heavy Bus
-41 -



Speed on Route 36: PATTAYA-RAYONG SECT. 11
KmJHour
Year         Status      Road Condition  Car  Ught Bus Medium Bus Heavy Bus Ught Truck  Medium Truck  Heavy Truck
2002-2004 Before Construction   2        70      65        60         60        65          60          60
After Construction     1        110    100        80        90        100         80           80
2005-2008 Before Construction   2        65      60        55         55        60          55          55
After Construction     1        105     95        75        80         95         75           75
2009   Before Construction    2        60      55        50        50         55          50          50
After Construction     1        100     90        70        75         90          70          70
2010-2016 Before Construction   3         55     50        45         45        50          45          45
After Construction     1        90      80        70        70        80          65           65
Pattaya-Rayong Section II: Speed of Vehicles from the Feasibility Study
Unit: KmJHour
Year _PC              LB              HB              LT              MT              HT
Year     B       A       B       A       B       A       B       A       B   I     A     B       A
2000    55.8    84.0    54.1    79.1    52.3    74.3    54.1    79.1    52.3    74.3    52.3    74.3
2001    50.1    83.8    49.0    78.9    47.9    74.1    49.0    78.9    47.9    74.1    47.9    74.1
2002    44.9    83.6    44 4    78.8    43 8    74.0    44.4    78.8    43.8    74.0    43.8    74.0
2003    41.8    83.5    41.6    78.7    41.4    73.9    41.6    78.7    41.4    73.9    41.4    73.9
2004    40.0    83.4    40.0    78.6    40.0    73.9    40.0    78.6    40.0    73.9    40.0    73.9
2005    40.0    83.3    40.0    78.6    40.0    73.8    40.0    78.6    40.0    73.8    40.0    73.8
2006    40.0    83.1    40.0    78.3    40.0    73.6    40.0    78.3    40.0    73.6    40.0    73.6
2007    40.0    82.7    40.0    78.0    40.0    73.4    40.0    78.0    40.0    73.4    40.0    73.4
2008    40.0    82.3    40.0    77.7    40.0    73.1    40.0    77.7    40.0    73.1    40.0    73.1
2009    40.0    81.8    40.0    77.3    40.0    72.7    40.0    77.3    40.0    72.7    40.0    72.7
2010    40 0    81.3    40.0    76.9    40 0    72.4    40.0    76.9    40.0    72.4    40.0    72.4
2011    40.0    80.8    40.0    76.4    40.0    72.0    40.0    76.4    40.0    72.0    40.0    72.0
2012    40.0    80.1    40.0    75.8    40.0    71.5    40.0    75.8    40.0    71.5    40.0    71.5
2013    40.0    79.4    40.0    75.2    40.0    71.0    40.0    75.2    40.0    71.0    40.0    71.0
2014    40.0    78.6    40.0    74.5    40.0    70.4    40.0    74.5    40.0    70.0    40.0    70.4
Note,   A   =   After construction
B   =   Before construction
-42 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 36: Pattaya-Rayong Sect. il                                                       Unit: Baht
Cost                                     Benefit
Year   Feasibillty  Detail Construction Supervislon Malntenance       VOC Saving a          Cash Flow
Total                 Other
Study   Design     Cost       Cost       Cost                 TC Savings
1998                                                                0                                0
1999                                                                0                                0
2000                     281,471,113  8,294,960            289,766,073                      -289,766,073
2001                     305,762,573  9,407,751             315,170,324                     -315,170,324
2002                                                                0   117,267,195    0.0   117,267,195
2003                                                                0   121,385,658    0.0   121,385,658
2004                                              808,607      808,607  125,644,859    0.0   124,836,252
2005                                              843,461      843,461  165,686,562    0.0   164,843,101
2006                                              878,315      878,315  171,569,447    0.0   170,691,132
2007                                              913,169      913,169  177,665,267    0.0   176,752,098
2008                                              948,022      948,022  184,476,570    0.0   183,528,548
2009                                            16,192,925   16,192,925  239,436,096   0.0   223,243,171
2010                                                                0   374,277,438    0.0   374,277,438
2011                                              948,022      948,022  395,789,608    0 0   394,841,586
2012                                              982.876      982,876  411,204,329    0.0   410,221,453
2013                                             1,017,730    1,017,730  427,913,297   0.0   426,895,567
2014                                             1,052,584    1,052,584  445,239,733   0.0   444,187,149
2015                                             1,087,437    1,087,437  463,332,188   0.0 462244751.2
2016                    -440,425,264             1,122,291  -439,302,973  482,172,581  0.0 921475553.5
IRR(%)         =          26.01%
FYRR(%)        =           19.39%
NPV(at 12%)    =     3,190,278.704
-43 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 36: Pattaya-Ra on Sect. II                                   Unit: Baht
Cost                                   Benefit
Year   Feasibility  Detail  Construction Supervision Maintenance    VOC Saving &         Cash Flow
Total                Other
Study   Design     Cost       Cost      Cost                 TC Savings
1997                                                                                              0
1998                                                                                              0
1999                                                                                              0
2000                     253,324,001  7,465,464           260,789,465                   -260,789,465
2001                     275,186,316  8,466,976           283,653,292                   -283,653,292
2002                                                                  103,737,616   0.0  103,737,616
2003                                                                  107,363,517   0.0  107,363,517
2004                                             727,747     727,747  111,113,469   0.0  110,385,722
2005                                             759,115     759,115  138,715,859   0.0  137,956,744
2006                                              790,483    790,483  143,606,178   0.0  142,815,694
2007                                             821,852     821,852  148,671,664    0.0  147,849,812
2008                                              853,220    853,220  154,331,112    0.0  153,477,892
2009                                           14,573,633  14,573,633  192.949,269   0.0  178,375,637
2010                                                   0           0  284,647,361    0.0  284,647,361
2011                                             853,220      853,220  302,570,352   0.0  301,717,132
2012                                              884,588     884,588  314,263,219   0.0  313,378,631
2013                                              915,957     915,957  326,943,883   0.0  326,027,926
2014                                              947,325     947,325  340,078,961   0.0  339,131,636
2015             _978,694                                     978,694  353,802,525   0.0  352,823,831j
2016                    -396,382,738            1,010,062  -395,372,676  368,086,167  0.0  763.458.843]
IRR(From F.S.  =         38.92%
IRR(%)                   24.50%
FYRR(%)                  19.05%
NPV(at 12%)         2,455,246,395
- 44 -



FORECAST TRAFFIC VOLUME ON ROUTE 36: Pattaya-Rayong Sect. III
At Km. 7+500                                                    Unit: Vehicle/Day            From Feasibility Study
YEAR       PC       LB       MB       HB        LT        MT        HT      TOTAL        YEAR    TRAFFIC VOLUME
2001     5,126     163       14       129     5,814      703      1,982     13,931       2000        42,164
2002     5,318     166       14       133     6,048      725      2,055     14,459       2001        47,245
2003     5,517     170       15       137     6,291      748      2,130     15,008       2002         51,507
2004     5,724     174       15       141     6,544      772      2,208     15,578       2003         56,155
2005     5,939     178       15       145     6,807      797      2,289     16,170       2004         61,224
2006     6,162     182       16       149     7,081      823      2,373     16,786       2005         66,752
2007     6,393     186       16       153     7,366      849      2,460     17,423       2006         72,780
2008     6,651     190       16       158     7,684      878      2,557     18,134       2007         78,682
2009     6,920     194       17       163     8,016      908      2,658     18,876       2008         85,065
2010     7,200     198       17       168     8,362      939      2,763     19,647       2009         91,966
2011     7,491     202       18       173     8,723      971      2,872     20,450       2010         99,427
2012     7,794     207       19       178     9,100     1,004     2,986     21,288       2011        107,495
2013     8,121     212       20       184     9,508     1,040     3,109     22,194       2012        116,218
2014     8,462     217       21       190     9,934     1,077     3,237     23.138       2013        125,651
2015     8,817     222       22       196     10,379    1,115     3,370     24,121       2014        135,850
Note:    Evaluation Section collected the Data In base year for forcasting the traffic volume
PC    = Passenger Car       LT    = Light Truck
LB    = Light Bus           MT    = Medium Truck
MB    = Medium Bus          HT    = Heavy Truck
HB    = Heavy Bus
-45 -



Speed on Route 36: PATTAYA-RAYONG SECT. III
KrnHour
Year         Status      Road Condition  Car Light Bus Medium Bus  Heavy Bus Ught Truck Medium Truck Heavy Truck
2001.2003 Before Construction   3        40      40       40         40        40         40         40
After Construction     1         90     90       70         70        90         80         70
2004-2007 Before Construction   3        40      40       40         40        40         40         40
After Construction     1         90     90       70         70        90         80         70
2008   Before Construction    3        40      40       40         40        40         40         40
After Construction     1         90     90       70         70        90         80         70
2009-2015 Before Construction   4        30      30       30         30        30         30         30
After Construction     1         90     90       70         70        90         80          70
Pattaya-Rayong Section III: Speed From the Feasibility Study
Unit: Km./Hour
Year         PC              LB             HB              LT              MT              HT
B       A       B       A       B       A       B      A       B       A       B       A
2000    43.2    83.5    42.8    78.7    42.5    73.9    42 8    78 7    42.5    73.9    42.5    73.9
2001    40.0    83.3    40.0    78.6    40.0    73.8    40.0    78.6    40 0    738     40.0    73 8
2002    40.0    83.2    40.0    78.5    40.0    73.7    40.0    78.5    40.0    73.7    40.0    73.7
2003    40.0    82.8    40.0    78.1    40.0    73.4    40.0    78.1    40.0    73.4    40.0    73.4
2004    40.0    82.4    40.0    77.7    40.0    73.1    40.0    77 7    40.0    73.1    40.0    73.1
2005    40.0    81.9    40.0    77.3    40.0    72.8    40.0    77.3    40.0    72.8    40 0    72.8
2006    40.0    81.3    40.0    76.8    40 0    72.4    40.0    76.8    40.0    72.4    40.0    72.4
2007    40.0    80.8    40.0    76.4    40.0    72.0    40.0    76.4    40.0    72.0    40.0    72.0
2008    40.0    80.1    40.0    75.8    40.0    71 5    40.0    75.8    40.0    71.5    40.0    71.5
2009    40.0    79.4    40.0    75 2    40.0    71.0    40.0    75.2    40.0    71.0    40.0    71.0
2010    40.0    78.6    40.0    74.5    40.0    70.4    40.0    74.5    40.0    70.4    40.0    70.4
2011    40.0    77.7    40.0    73.7    40.0    69 8    40.0    73.7    40.0    69.8    40.0    69.8
2012    40.0    76.8    40 0    73.0    40.0    69.2    40.0    73.0    40.0    69.2    40.0    69.2
2013    40.0    76.4    40.0    72.6    40.0    688     40.0    72 6    40.0    68.8    40.0    68.8
2014    40.0    76.3    40.0    72.5    40.0    688     40.0    72.5    40.0    68.8    40.0    68.8
Note    A   =   After construction
B   =   Before construction
-46 -



Financial Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 3: Pattaya-Rayong Sect. III                                                 Unit: Baht
Cost                           |      Benefit
Year Feasibilit  Detail Construction Supervision Maintenance  Total  VOC Saving 8 Other  Cash Flow
Study   Design    Cost       Cost       Cost               TC Savings
1998                                                            0                              0
1999                                                            0                              0
2000                   432,707,149  4,094,326           436,801,475                   -436,801.475
2001                    126,765,713  1,252,308          128,018,021  84,289,267   0.0  -43,728,754
2002                                                            0   87,415,198    0.0   87,415,198
2003                                            247,839    247,839  90,689,797    0.0   90,441,958
2004                                            258,521    258,521  94,069,844    0.0   93,811,322
2005                                            269,204    269,204  97,588,004    0.0   97,318,800
2006                                            279,887    279,887  101,246,351   0.0  100,966,464
2007                                            290,570    290,570  105,009,588   0.0  104,719,017
2008                                           9,906,750  9,906,750  109,238,784  0.0   99,332,034
2009                                                            0   179,873,904   0.0  179,873,904
2010                                            290,570    290,570  187,092,600   0.0  186,802,030
2011                                            301,252    301,252  194,569,956   0.0  194,268,703
2012                                            311,935    311,935  202,395,988   0.0  202,084,053
2013                                            290,570    290,570  210,879,917   0.0  210,589,347
2014                                            322,618    322.618  219,698,125   0.0- 219,375,507
2015                  -419,604,647              333,300 -419,271,346  228,854,366  0.0  648,125,713
IRR(%)        =          20.10%
FYRR(%)        =         14.92%
NPV(at 12 %)   =    2,034,593,821
-47 -



Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
Route No. 36: Pattaya-Rayong Sect. Ill                                                     Unit: Baht
Cost                                    Benefit
Year   Feasibili  Detail  ConstrucUon Supervision Maintenance        VOC Saving &          Cash Flow
Total                 Other
Study   Design     Cost       Cost       Cost                 TC Savings
1997                               = -                             0                                0
1998                                     _                         0                                0
1999                              0         0                      0                                0
2000                     389,436,434  3,684,893            393,121,327                    -393,121,327
2001                     114,089,141  1,127,077            115,216,219  63,747,693     0   -51,468,526
2002                                                                0   66.102,783     0    66,102,783
2003                                              223,055     223,055   68,590,189     0    68,367,134
2004                                              232,669     232,669   71,148,664     0    70,915,995
2005                                              242,284     242,284   73,800,564     0    73,558,280
2006                                              251,898     251,898   76,574,998      0   76,323,100
2007                                              261,513     261,513   79,407,857      0   79,146,345
2008                                             8,916,075   8,916,075  82,596,163      0   73,680,088
2009                                                                0  135,284,077      0  135,284,077
2010                                              261,513     261,513  140,692,375      0  140,430,862
2011                                              271,127     271,127  146,318,658      0   146,047,531
2012                                              280,742     280,742  152,212,107      0   151,931,365
2013                                              261,513     261,513  158,604,297      0   158,342,784
2014                                              290,356     290,356  165,243,223      0   164,952,867
2015                    -377,644,182     .        299,970 -377,344,211  172,129,175     0   549,473,387
IRR(From F.S.)  =         49.05%
IRR(%)         =          17.16%
FYRR(%)        =          12.54%
NPV (12%)      =     1,509.966,746
-48 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1995                  2    Sr. Urban/Environmental
Specialist
Environmental Specialist
January 1995                2    Sr. Economist/Mission Leader
Chander Ohri
November 1994               3    Sr. Economist/Mission Leader
Urban Environmental Specialist
Environmental Specialist
October 1993                3    Sr. Economist/Task Manager
Environmental Specialist
Highway Engineer
May 1993                    3    Sr. Economist/Task Manager
Principal Engineer
Urban Environment Specialist
January 1993                3    Sr. Economist/Task Manager
Principal Engineer
Highway Engineer
September 1992              2    Sr. Economist/Task Manager
Principal Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1994                    8    Mission Leader
Highway Engineer (2)
Urban Environmental
Specialist
Environmental Specialist
Project Analyst
Road Transport Industry
Specialist
Vehicle Emissions Expert
January 1994                5    Mission Leader
Principal Engineer
Engineer
Environmental Specialists (2)
Supervision
May 2001                     1   Task Team Leader                   S             S
February 2001                2   Task Team Leader                   S             S
Procurement Officer
-49 -



May 2000                     2   Task Team Leader                   S             S
Procurement Officer
February 2000                J   Sr. Road Safety Specialist         S             S
January 2000                 4   Task Team Leader                   S             S
Sr. Environmental Specialist
Sr. Road Safety Specialist
Operations Officer
July 1999                    2   Task Team Leader                   U             S
Sr. Environmental Specialist
ICR
February 2002                1    Task Team Leader
September 2001              4     Task Team Leader                  S             S
Procurement Officer
Sr. Environmental Officer
Financial Management Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActuaVLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               37.9                       130.3
AppraisaVlNegotiation                    60.4                       182.5
Supervision                              86.5                       321.4
ICR                                       2.5                        17.4
Total                                   187.3                       651.6
- 50 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Physical                             * H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
ElI Financial                          O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Institutional Development            O H  O SU O M   O N   0 NA
OI Environmental                       O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Gender                         O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)         OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   * NA
LI Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
-51 -






Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS       *U    OHU
[ Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
D Preparation                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
OI Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       OU    O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 52 -






Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7
(Page 1 of 4)
_~~~~9      _ 0          -    r-  '0 0-    0  '  89  0 -q: 
I. 
_ _ i .. 66  C .~ - -      C z- stC .4 _
!  ~~~~~~~~  ~ 9   A;
53 -
2    o* _o      4   9         9- *'       a 
t~~   * 0  e.          0   -  -      C'    0 
7.       - l  -  S; i               "X$          i§S
-~~~~~~~~~-5 - 



Annex 7
(Page 2 of 4)
U_
*      _-
I.  q  p  4 -   e fi
2i e - _ _4 
a~
C_       _
0 -  S   42:  = 
j     Si. 
o       a  ;5
I 'q:Si2g# 
_2
.* 8 8  8 t  8 ' 1
*   i{  § Rui 
I)r 
Si; 8  v  E  -i 8  g  :R~~~~~~.
I   I !! !I  #
- 54 -



Annex 7
(Page 3 of 4)
Table   -3 Trsflk Vrhmes and Elgbway Laugft by Renja (2000)
(ADT) RW                   -
ND oSIal                         600         1,166        S29          407          2.710
<l.000                          4.07w       2,382        1,357        1,041         3,350
I,000-2,00                     3473         3,759        1,80         1,569        10.613
2,0004O00                       3.301       3,92         2,761        1.504         11.436
4      ,000                     2.07         1,910       1,485         771          6.210
AMOO4,a0                         749         1.000       1.059         459           307
3,000-15.000                    I,272         .1) 1.092               1.4S2         5.348
IS5  SOO0                       572          310        1,672         359          2.713
aA0-100.000                       30           39          45.                        414
200.00                              .        .. '                        -            230
ToWt
AvBsOADToPb     k           15,917  1    5 ,5        11945        7.569        52.000
Goums,: Trrfdl Engwbring OM       m. Dupwai     of H1UN.mu.
- 55 -



Annex 7
(Page 4 of 4)
-   e.    Xe t oc - v
,,         .- ,   , 
-  0  4 -  af  el  s  --
. I-   X'  *r
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
,<.  R  n   ^  ~~'
'0,
*      i 4..  - 4 a .
_ .4~~~~~~~~~~~.
i       II£ >               S <
fS r      i     i  i O
- 56 -



It                       _ .......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.  '   GI FNA
.   - VIET
M A N R  f                                            D RMYANMAR 9  , AM
THAILAND'
MYANMAR       i~C     )     I9                                     ,PDR '
-              j               /( X .  >  LAO PEOPLE'S  V THAIL4ND '-
/4. e      /   t \        o' - -       DEMOCRATIC                E ;AAAODIA
t wM,,,e Fa 9 on~ " }   \4b51 4           EP  LIREPUBLIC
;    R .2r t,,         ),9j  Ir                                     N.' A"i s,
4, \ / w $  XLan pEvo g A  J  St                MA sIA
! z A  > :  I J            Ph,ch           /uJ        ~~^~> -  1"'
C.
Andarnr99AR,, I  'AboAn                                             . X
M*ANMARj                  CENR. L          R
Andaman               P         of
Seat
of
_                 Thailand
/    Ah ,Aph,,                                                    -
1 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~           50  "I  15  200
-10'  /                                                 - N,..'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  0
/   3  '-'  THAILAND
,c1¢,2 f  w    -      NATIONAL. HIGHWAY NETWORK
50U T  HR N ,                           ORrBro
Th, N,,               .                4. > \  Airports
d ~  ~~    -hn  F <l               Region ooundo,i0,
h/9,9 ,'       t  \              -  - -  InterFne o Io boundoe
1w-
/ 5_ 5zK \ ~~~~~~~0       50     100    I502o
-'-Ir                         MILES
'rN  . - rwy,   -,,        MALAYSIA'!   > 
., ,    -'rtn| 100'                               I °/ 05
_ _   I   l Kusb lumpus  v         I~~~~~-  IA' 






IMAGING
Report No.:        2369
Type-.     C



