Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13333-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 28, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 1, 1995)
Currency Unit     =     Thai Baht (B)
B 1.00     =     US$0.0399
US$1.00      =      B 25.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)      =       3.2 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kmi)     =       0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (kmn)     =       0.39 square miles (mil)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
APCU   -  Action Plans Coordinating Unit
ATC    -  Automatic Traffic Control
BMA    -  Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
BMTA  -  Bangkok Metropolitan Transit Authority
DOH    -  Department of Highways
DPC    -  Department of Pollution Control
ETA    -  Expressway and Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
LPG     -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LTD    -  Land Transport Department
MIS    -  Management Information System
MOSTE -  Ministry of Science, Teclhnology and Environment
MOTC  -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
NEPO   -  National Energy Policy Office
NEQA   -  National Environmental Quality Act
NESDB -  National Economic and Social Development Board
OECF   -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OEPP   -  Office of Environnmental Policy and Planning
PCB    -  Pollution Control Board
RTG    -  Royal Thai Governmenit
SEA    -  Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SOE    -  Statement of Expenditure
SPURT  -  Seventh Plan Urban and Regional Transport Project
SRT    -  State Railway of Thailand
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND FISCAL YEAR
October I - September 30



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Kingdom of Thailand
mplemtmlg
Aggricies:             Ministry of Transport and Communications, Department of Highways, Land
Transport Department and Department of Pollution Control
Beneficiar:            Not applicable
Povertv:               Not applicable
AmnounI:               US$150.00 million equivalent
Terms:                  17 years, including four years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Commitmeni
Fee:                   0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financing Plan:        See paragraph 3.15
EconomicQRate
of Retum:              A minimum rate of 12 percent has been set for financing of sub-projects under
the project. The sub-projects already committed for financing have rates of
return ranging from 19 percent to 63 percent.
Mp:                    IBRD No. 26039-TH
Project ID:            TH-PA-4800






THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Contents
Page
1.  THE SEVENTH HIGHWAY PLAN
A.      Economic and Sectoral Context ----------------------------------------------                             -       I
B.      DOH's Seventh Highway Plan--------------------------------------------------------------2
C.      Experience Under Past Loans---------------------------------------------------------------5
II.  ISSUES AND ACTIONS
A.      Institutional Capacities: DOH, OEPP, LTD  and DPC-----------------------------------7
B.      Vehicular Emissions and Noise Standards ------------------------------------------------8
C.      Traffic Safety--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11
D.      Resource Mobilization----------------------------------------------------------------------11
[II. BANK PARTICIPATION
A.      Project Formulation -------------------------------------------------------------------------13
B.      Rationale for Bank Involvement----------------------------------------------------------- 13
C.      Objectives------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14
D.      Description of Bank-Financed Components ---------------------------------------------14
E.      Cost Estimate and Financing--------------------------------------------------------------- 16
F.      Implementation of Bank-Financed Activities-------------------------------------------17
G.    Procurement of Bank-Financed Inputs---------------------------------------------------- 18
H.      Disbursement--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 19
I.      Monitoring and Auditing -------------------------------------------------------------------21
J.      Environmental Impact of the Project------------------------------------------------------22
K.      Economic Justification-------------------------------------------------                     -------------- 23
L.      Project Risks----------------------------------------------------------------------------------23
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION---------------------------------24
This report is based on the findings of a May/June 1994 appraisal mission to Thailand comprising
Messrs./Mmes. Maurice Le Blanc (mission leader, transport economist), Sigfus Sigfusson (highway
engineer), Stephen Dice (urban environmental specialist), Manida Unkulvasapaul (environmental
specialist), Koji Kuroda (highway engineer), Kevin Page (projects analyst), Philip Sayeg (road transport
industry specialist, consultant), and Christopher Weaver (vehicle emissions expert, consultant). Bobbie
Brown (staff assistant), Eva Monteblanco (staff assistant), and Hamideh Keyhani (staff assistant)
contributed to the production of the report. The report was reviewed by the peer reviewers, Messrs.
Christopher Hoban (highway engineer) and John Flora (transport specialist). It was cleared by Mr. Callisto
E. Madavo (Director, EA1) and Mr. J. Shivakumar (Chief, EAIIN).



FIGURES IN THE TEXT
Figure i:           Modal Split of Transport in Thailand -------------------------------------------------------------------- I
Figure 2:    Seventh Plan Expenditure --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
Figure 3:   Summary of DOH Seventh Highway Plan Period Investment Expenditures ----------------------- 4
Figure 4:    Maintenance per Kilometer on DOH  Roads ------------------------------------------------------------ 4
Figure 5:    Seventh Highway Plan Financing ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 5
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 1:         Project Costs by Component ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
Table 2:         Project Financing by Component------------------------------------------------------------------------17
Table 3:         Summary of Project Procurement Arrangements ----------------------------------------------------- 18
Table 4:         Schedule of Estimated Disbursements------------------------------------------------------------------20
ANNEXES
1. The Highway Subsector
Annex Tables
Table 1:  Length of Highway Network in Thailand by Road Class ---------------------------------------36
Table 2: DOH Special and National Roads by Region, Road Class and Surface Type----------------37
Table 3:   Special and National Roads: Surface Type and Condition--------------------------------------38
Table 4:   Number of Vehicles Registered by Type ----------------------------------------------------------39
Table 5: Special and National Roads: Traffic Volumes and Divided Highway Lengths by Region -40
Table 6:   Department of Highways Expenditures, 1988-95 ------------------------------------------------41
Table 7:   Summary of Government Revenues from  Road Users ------------------------------------------42
Table 8:   Summary of Government expenditures on Road Works  ---------------------------------------43
Table 9:   Summary of DOH's Seventh Road Development Plan------------------------------------------44
Table 10: Comparative Petroleum  Product Prices in Selected Asian Countries--------------------------45
2.   The Royal Thai Government's Action Plan for controlling Motor Vehicle Emissions and Noise-----46
Table:        Summary of Action Plans ---------------------------------------------------------------------------59
3.      Environmental Capacity Strengthening Program  for DOH  and OEPP  ------------------------------------63
Schedule 1: Environmental Assessment Strengthening Program  (EASP)----------------------------73
Schedule 2: Draft TOR  for the Environmental Technical Specialists (ETS)-------------------------74
Schedule 3: Draft TOR for Consultative Services on Development of Guidelines/Manuals to
Mitigate the Negative Impacts Due to Road/Highway Projects ------------------------77
Schedule 4: Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and
Compensation Issues--------------------------------------------------------------------------82
Schedule 5: Strategy and Program  for DOH  Environmental Training--------------------------------88
4.      Supervision Plan---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------95
5.      Bank Involvement in tile Transport Sector --------------------------------------------------------------------97
6.      Cost &  Benefit Streams ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------98
7       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ---------------------------------------------- 101
CHARTS & MAPS
1.      Organization of the Ministry of Transport and Communications----------------------------------------- 103
2.   Organization of the Department of Highways-------------------------------------------------------   104
3.      Organization of the Department of Land Transport -------------------------------------------------------- 105
4.   Map (IBRD No. 26039)



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1. THE SEVENTH HIGHWAY PLAN
A. EcCONOMIC AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
1.1    Thailand's explosive growth in GDP, averaging almost IO percent per annum between 1988
arid 1995, has led .o vastly increased demand for transport and has put severe strains on the existing
infrastructure and the environment, especially in the Bangkok Metropolitan Region (BMR). An
extensive transport network has been developed which offers a wide range of modal options at
varying levels of service including road, rail, inland waterways, ports and aviation. Road transport,
however, dominates thc sector accounting for 89 percent of the total freight traffic and 90 percent of
passenger traffic. Details of the road network and the road transport industry are found in Annex 1.
The State Railway of Thailand (SRT) has a network of about 3,861 route-km of meter-gauge track
radiating from Bangkok and connecting witlh the Malayan and Cambodian Railways. Rail freight,
representing 2 percent of national freight tonne-km, is highly concentrated in a few commodities
such that in 1991, cement and petroleum products accounted for three quarters of the total 7.9
million tonnes carried. Petroleum products alone accounted for 43 percent of the total. Similarly
for passengers, rail's share is only 9 percent and is geographically concentrated on routes radiating
from Bangkok. The Bank has been involved in analyzing the future role of the railway in both
urban and inter-urban transport as well as investment and institutional requirements.
Passenger (person-kilometers)                Freight (tonne-kilometers)
Inland
Rail 9%  , _        ~      -          Waterways     Rail 2%
4%
Airl1%            -                         Coastal
Shipping
5%
Figure 1: Modal Split of Transport in Thailand
1.2    Thailand also has a well developed inland waterways system which covers about one third
of the country's area and comprises some 1,600 km of navigable waterways. Inland waterways
traffic is conservatively estimated to account for about 4 percent of the total freight traffic.
Hlowever, cargo flows in river transport are difficult to ascertain since various sources do not show
a complete picture of the traffic and data from different sources vary considerably. Air freight
transport is negligible and accounts for only 0.7 percent of the total passenger traffic.
1.3    Tiaffic growth has been most dramatic in road transport. Nationally, road traffic increased
at the rate of almost 15 percent per annum since 1989 while the size of the vehicle fleet, excluding
motorcycles, more than doubled, growing at an average rate of 9.6 percent per annum between
i985 and 1993. Motorcycles multiplied even faster at an average rate of 14 percent per annum,



- 2 -
making up 65 percent of the nation's vehicle fleet and creating a disproportionate amount of the
noise and air pollution. With GDP growth projected at an annual rate of 5 percent in the medium
tern, and the fleet of nearly 10.8 million vehicles expected to continue growing at these rates, there
is an urgent need io increase road capacity and improve the efficiency of the use of road
infrastructure to avoid serious bottlenecks to Thailand's continued economic growth. Already,
Thailaiid has about 4,500 km of inter-urban two-lane roads carrying over 8,000 vehicles per day --
traffic levels which generally indicate foui-laning to maintain minimum acceptable speeds. The
challenge will be to service this demand while mitigating the environmental impacts of such
dynamic growthi in the road sub-sector.
1.4   In the last 30 years, government investment in the first six national development plans
(1965-1991) has expanded the paved road network from an initial 5,500 km in 1965 to a nation-
wide road network of over 57,126 km in length by the end of 1994, linking an additional 146,600
km of rural roads and 14,800 km of municipal roads not directly administered by the national
government. As the network has grown and matured, the emphasis on maintenance and
rchabilitation has increased, with maintenance expenditures per kilometer on Department of
Highway (DOH) roads more than doubling between 1988 and 1994, from 56,400 Baht/km to the
highly appropriate level of 124,700 Baht/km.
1.5    At the start of the Sixth Highway Plan, most of the planned investments were slated for
rehabilitation and reconstruction (39 percent) and paving (35 percent). Works for capacity increases
only accounted for 20 percent of the Plan. However, when the growth in demand for road transport
increased commensurate with the overall economic boom, congestion became chronic, and a mid-
term review of the Plan in 1989 shifted the emphasis away from rehabilitation and upgrading,
focusing instead on the more urgent need to expand capacity to keep up with demand. In the revised
and vastly expanded Sixth Highway Plan, widening and new links made up 68 percent of the
expanded investment program. The cost of the revised Sixth Highway Plan escalated from Baht 23
billion to Baht 119 billion due to the addition of the new widening projects, price escalation, and
revised cost estimates based on detailed engineering. By the end of the Sixth Highway Plan period
in 1991, Baht 28 billion had been expended to complete 20 percent of the program, with the
remaining 80 percent (estimated to cost Baht 97 billion) carried over into the Seventh Highway
Plan period (1992-96). These Sixth Highway Plan "Carry-over" projects, currently all committed or
under implementation, precluded any significant expenditure on Seventh Highway Plan projects
until 1994, two years into the Seventh Highway Plan period.
B. DOH's SEVENTH HIGHWAY PLAN
General
1.6    The three major goals outlined in the Seventh Highway Plan are to: (a) sustain economic
growth; (b) distribute income and prosperity to the regions, and; (c) develop human resources,
quality of life, the environment, and natural resources. The government has recognized the pressing
need for additional road capacity and is committed to mobilizing sufficient funds, accelerating
investment, and encouraging a greater participation by the private sector to provide the road
infrastructure required to achieve the stated goals. The government has also committed significant
resources, both from its own budget and from Bank and ADB loans to finance the continued



- 3 -
implementation of environmental Action Plans to reduce vehicle emissions and noise, and to
enhance traffic safety, which were initiated during the Sixth Highway Plan.
50,000.0                                                               ______________.  _
45,000.0                                                       * > t <. Security Roads  1
40.000.0
35,00|0.0                         *                             *''  - ia Highway Maintenance
30,000.0oHihaCosrcon
s  25,000.0  -    g '          §       |     ;-                     Rehabilitation and Upgrading
3 0,000.0
W  1,0G00.0      *; -: 11 1t, 1   1           4   {      ;l       " Special Highway Construction
Reaifand imoeentadUgrdn
120,000.0
1500.0                    Ta  iclYa
5,00C0.0  .'                                                  * l::   -< . -   "   w   Administration
5,000.0    e_;        _:'-_'                          _
1991      1992       1993      1994       1995
Thai Fiscal Year
Figure 2: Revised Seventh Plan Expenditures
1.7    The original Draft Seventh Highway Plan (1992) proposed a Baht 95 billion investment
program, focused on the addition of road capacity at an estimated cost of Baht 32 billion. This
program has since been superseded by a revised Seventh Highway Plan (March 1994) which
envisions a strategic program of capacity increases (including widening, new links, interchanges
and construction of sections of the new motorways) scheduled to consume about 65 percent of the
overall investment expenditure of Baht 195 billion. The remaiiing 35 percent of the Plan is
reserved for rehabilitation, reconstruction and paving projects. The Plan is very aggressively
scheduled, with more than half the expenditures likely to be carried over into the Eighth Plan
period.
1.8    Under DOH's Seventh Plan, road expenditures, summarized in Figure 3 (See Annex 1,
Table 9), road capacity would be increased through widening 2.094 km of main arteries connecting
Bangkok with the regions to a four-lane standard at an estimated cost of Baht 46 billion. The
revised Plan also includes a widening of an additional 1,155 km of roads not located on the main
arterial routes at a cost of Baht 36 billion, and improvement of interchanges (in 38 locations) of
existing roads and the construction of controlled-access motorways (198 km). This is appropriate
since the surface condition and strength of the trunk network have been brought to a very
satisfactory level in the last several years, while congestion on the main roads in the Central Region
(i.e., the Bangkok area) clearly indicates that network capacity is not keeping pace with traffic
requirements.



-4 -
40000      ;:Cary Ove
35000                    *.l                torways
30000                                   * k r i r t t; 0 t terchan is
E  20000                                    M *New Links
.C 15000                                   0]Paving
10000~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rehabilitation/
5000                                     Reconstruction
0 
92    93    94    95    96
Thai Fiscal Year
Figure 3, Summary of DOH Seventh Highway Plan Period Investment Expenditures
1.9    The large Investment Plan proposed is regarded by DOH as necessary to catch up with the
unexpectedly xapid traffic increases that have occurred since 1986 (at an annual rate of some 14
percent) and to handle similar growth expected over the next several years. However, the size of the
Plan may need to be reduced due to insufficient budgetary resources and a lack of implementation
capacity. Other potential constraints would be cost pressures due to a booming construction market
and a substantial increase in land acquisition costs for the major projects planned in the Bangkok
metropolitan area.
Recurrent Expenditures
1.10   Recurrent expenses included under the Seventh Highway Plan are considered appropriate.
This is particularly true of road   r
maintenance which is allocated        140.00
higher amounts than under the
Sixth Plan, starting with a 30        120.00
percent increase between  1991             l 0.l *
and 1992. In 1994, 7.1 billion        100.
Baht were expensed for road          ~0
maintenance, averaging 124,700         8
Baht per km (See Figure 4 based    b 60.00
on Annex  , TablesI&6).
Together with  the  significant        4000
rehabilitation   and   upgrading
efforts  proposed   under  the         2.0 
Investment Plan, these increases         0    :.
are considered sufficient to meet
the   additional   maintenance                     o
requirements  from    network
increases (nearly 3 percent per    Figure 4: Maintenance Per Kilometer On DOH Roads
year, but mostly at the low-  I



- 5 -
volume end) and the rapid traffic increases projected for the Plan period based on recent
experience.
Financing of the Highway Plan
1.11   Government budgetary  allocations  are
expected to cover about 75 percent of DOH's                    IRD
planned expenditures. The remairing funds required       ADB   8%
would be obtained from foreign sources, including        80/-
the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank
(AD3) and the Overseas Economic Cooperation          OF\
Fund (OECF) of Japan, and would be applied            9%  \    ^
mainly to the Plan's investment expenditures. Figure      _._
5 summarizes expected financing sources for the
Seventh Highway Plan.
RTG
1.12   If the financing resources available for the                          75%
Seventh Highway Plan are not sufficient to cover  Figure 5: Seventh Highway Plan Financing
total Plan requirements (as proposed by DOH and
presented above), the Plan would be reduced by scaling down or postponing sub-projects for
mipgrading and constructing new (low volume) road links. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that it will by March 31, 1996 and by March 31 of each subsequent
year until completion of the project, carry out, jointly with the Bank, a progress review of the scope
and implementation of the Seventh and Subsequent Highway Plans.
C. EXPERIENCE UNDER PAST LOANS
1.13   To date, the Bank has provided a total of about US$777 million for 13 highway projects in
Thailand. Implementation of these projects has been largely satisfactory, mostly within budgets and
on schedule. The Project Completion Report prepared for the First and Second Highway Sector
Projects (dated June 30, 1994) found that the two projects helped DOH sustain a more efficient road
transport system by focusing on maintenance, strengthening institutional capacity to accommodate
traffic increases much greater than originally expected, and applying resources to enhance DOH's
fiscal capabilities. The lessons learned from the implementation of the two projects pointed to the
fact that the maintenance policy adopted by DOH and the conservatively designed pavements had
facilitated economic growth in spite of the higher than anticipated traffic volumes. The Thai
experience suggests that overall sustainability of highway sector projects depends as much on past
decisions/actions taken or not taken (on maintenance policy, building of institutional capabilities,
design standa;ds and trained human resources) as on the efficiency of eurrent projects. The PCR
also found that strong institutional capabilities combined with close Bank and Borrower relations
were essential to successful project implementation, and that the sector design approach, used for
the first time in Thailand, introduced flexibility into the sub-project management, creating positive
benefits which built on existing infrascructure and past programs and strategies. The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Highway Sector Project indicated that the
project's development objectives were satisfactorily achieved, and that the design of the Fourth
Highway Sector Project incorporated the lessons learned. Implementation of DOH's portion of the
Fourth Highway Sector Project is proceeding well.
1.14   With regard to the elements of the previous projects for which DOH was not directly
responsible, i.e., the environmental, safety and industry efficiency Action Plans, anticipated



- 6 -
difficulties in coordination and in procurement have been experienced. While commitment to the
Plans has been excellent and progress in policy reforms has been substantial, problems have arisen
from the need to coordinate various agencies and ministries as well as from changing institutional
responsibilities in Thailand. The establishment of the coordinating unit (APCU) and associated
advisory position in the MOTC, together with Bank supervision under the Fourth Highway Sector
Project, has provided a good basis for progress under the proposed Project.
1.15   Since- adopting the original Actions Plans in early 1991, Thailand has made substantial
implementation progress, particularly with regard to the Action Plan for Reduction of Vehicle
Emissious and Noise. Since its introduction in May 1991 in Bangkok, unleaded gasoline has
achieved more than 70 percent of the Thailand national gasoline market. By the end of 1995, all
gasolines are scheduled to be unleaded, while strict controls on benzene and other potentially
lar1uful gasoline cornponents are being maintained.  Sulfur content of diesel fuel has been
dramatically reduced, and improved lubricating oil standards are being enforced. Strengthened
en,issions standards for all classes of vehicles (especially motorcycles) have been adopted and a
schedule for phasing in the required engine modifications has been agreed. Vehicle inspection is
now required for renewal of registration for all vehicles more than ten years old in the Bangkok
area. An improved network of ambient and problem area monitoring of air quality has been
established nationwide, while special studies of particulate emissions in the Bangkok area are now
underway with the support of a Japanese Policy and Human Resources grant to Thailand. Traffic
Safety education and reporting programs continue to be strengthened, while a national road safety
niaster plan is now under preparation. DOH continues its "blackspot" elimination program to
improve the raost dangerous road sections.
1.16   The present revised and updated version of the Action Plan reflects the experiences gained
to date on the implementation of actions under the Fourth Highway Sector Project and ongoing
disc.ussions with Bank missions in the preparation of the proposed project. The Action Plan
includes a balanced mix of policies and investments to reduce the adverse impacts of motorized
transport on air quality and noise levels nationwide, and especially in the Bangkok Metropolitan
Area. These measures are summarized in Annex 2.



- 7 -
2. ISSUES AND ACTIONS
A. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITiES: DOH, OEPP, LTD AND DPC
2.1    The road sub-sect.r in Thailand is highly developed and well-managed and the DOH, in
particular, is a mature and relatively efficient institution with good technical capabilities which
continues to improve and enhance its systems and human resources. Whereas maintenance and
sustaining the road network in good condition is the central issue facing most of the Bank's client
countries, Thailand faces a different set of issues which relate more to the fact that growth is
outstripping capacity. Meeting this demand while mitigating environmental impacts related to
road construction and increased vehicular use represent the key issues addressed under the Fourth
Highway Sector Project and is further supported under the proposed Project.  Successful
Tnaniageinent of the issues depends on the institutional capacities of DOH, LTD, OEPP and DPC,
particularly with regard to implementation of efforts to mitigate environmental problems such as
controlling vehicle emissions and noise pollution and reducing traffic accidents; but also in
developing a greater range of rescurce mobilization options, including private sector finance, to
fund an apprepriately-balanced, multi-modal transport network.
2.2    Depaltment of Highways. During the last decade, DOH has successfully improved the
operation and management of the road sub-sector through programs for: (a) the development and
instailati3ln of a modern and efficient maintenance management system; (b) the development and
country-wide instailation of an equipment rental system and the creation of a revolving fund for
equipment replacement; (c) improved and increased road maintenance; (d) construction of new
training facilities and implementation of an improved, expanded training program; and (e)
introduction of a road traffic safety improvement program, mostly the elimination of existing
"blackspots." Some of these programs will continue as integral parts of DOH's operations and
others as parts of the Action Plans discussed below.
2.3    A new effort being addressed under the proposed Project is the strengthening of the
Government's environmnental assessment capabilities in the transport sector, particularly for
highway development. While the widening and capacity improvements under the Seventh Plan
pose minimal environmental risk, being limited mainly to existing rights-of-way, future capacity
additions beyond the Seventh Plan will probably involve new alignments on new rights-of-way
requiring enhanced DOH environmental assessment (EA) and resettlement capabilities.  In
preparation for the proposed Project, DOH carried out a sectoral environmental assessment
(SEA). The SEA (see Annex 3) focused upon the development of a medium-term strengthening
program for DOH project EA capacities, as well as related review capabilities at the OEPP, to
respond to the mandate of the Thai National Environmental Quality Act (NEQA) of 1992 and the
Bank's Operational Directives on EA and resettlement issues.
2.4    DOH has, in fact, already begun implementation of the steps recommended by the SEA.
The first and most basic step was the establishment of the DOH Environment Unit within the
Planning Division to serve as the focal point for efforts to improve EA and related procedures and
capacities throughout the Department. While six positions were initially assigned to the Unit,
other DOH divisions have now identified staff for training in environmental issues and appropriate
aspects of the EA process. The proposed strengthening program includes mobilization of longer-



- 8 -
term advisory and training professionals to enhance DOH and OEPP capacities even while the
institutional strengthening is undenvay.
2.5    Jand Tra=ortDepartme  Tb. LTD is charged with regulating commercial and, as of
1988, private vehicles. Its duties include route and operator licensing of commercial vehicles and
the setting of tariff ceilings for roaa transport, standards of road vehicles and equipment, vehicle
safety awd emis;ions inspections, and The setting and collection of vehicle licensing fees. Due to
difficulties in attracting staff with transport-related training, the Department has many vacancies,
primariiy in areas requiring tertiary education; some sections have only half of their staff
complemnent. Currently, about 700 of its total staff of 5,500 have college training. LTD's new
responsibilities for private vehicles and increased role in vehicle inspection require it to fill the
existing vacancies, to recruit additiornal personnel and to provide continuous training. While the
ongoirg and proposed highway sector projects incitade some training assistance for LTD, much
more needs to be done on both the vocaiional and tertiary levels. Specifics of the Department's
training requirememns would therefore be identified by technical assistance engaged under the
project to assist LTD in implementing selected Action Plan components.
2.6    Office of Enmironmental Policy and Planniig.  OEPP, in the Ministry of Science,
Technology and Environment (MOSTE), was created by the NEQA legislation of 1992, which
updated and streng±hened Thailand's basic enx ironmental protection law. The key role for OEPP
in the highway sector is to mitigate impacts for all development activities in Thailand, public or
private. As noted in the SEA for Highways, OEPP currently has limited capacity to fulfill its
relatively new mandate, but is actively developing the necessary procedur al framework and staff
to undertake this role. The EA strengthening component presented in Annex 3 would provide
fund- to assist OEPP as well as DOH to develop necessary capacities for oversight of the EA
processes in DOH.
2.7    Departent oif Pollution Control. The DPC, also within MOSTE, was also created by the
1992 NEQA, by transferring the staff of the former Office of the National Environmental Board
(ONEB) to staff the newly-created agency. In accordance with the provisions of the NEQA,
DPC's Air Pollution Control Division has taken a leadership role in updating RTG's Action Plans
for the Reduction of Vehicle Emissions and related discussions of institutional capacities for
implementation. DPC has rapidly expanded the staffing of the Air Pollution Control Division
during the past two years, and the agreed Action Plan (Annex 2) includes technical assistance,
training and related support to DPC as it assumes the full monitoring and enforcement powers
provided by the NEQA.
B. Vehicular Emissions and Noise Standards
2.8    Bangkok and other large cities in Thiailand, suffer from severe street-level air pollution
due to the large number of vehicles and heavy traffic conditions. The pollutants of greatest
concern are suspended particulate matter, especially respirable particulate matter, carbon
monoxide, lead, and toxic air contaminants such as benzene. Levels of respirable particulate
matter on major streets are often double or triple those considered safe, and are thought to be a
major factoi in causing and aggravating respiratory illnesses. Average blood-lead levels in the
general populace and in exposed groups such as traffic policemen are also far higher than is safe.
Traffic noise levels, due pfimardy to poorly-muffled motorcycles and diesel engines, are
extremely high.



- 9-
2.9    Major sources of respirable particulate matter include two-stroke motorcycles and three-
whee' taxis (called tuk-tuks), and light- and heavy-duty diesel vehicles. Most two-stroke and diesel
vehicles emit significant visible smoke, which tends to be confined in the major road corridors
and limits visibility to a few hundred yards during heavy traffic periods (which last most of the
day). lLydrocarbon emissions from two-stroke motorcycles are probably the major source of toxic
air contaminants such as benzene, while lead in the atmosphere is due almost entirely to emissions
from vehicles using leaded gasoline.
210   A key feature of the proposed Project is the RTG agreement to continued progress in
implementation of the agreed Action Plans for Highway Safety and for Vehicle Emission and Noise
Reduction, currently being pursued as components of the Fourth Highway Sector Project and
updated/extended for inclusion in the proposed Project. The impressive accomplishments in many
of the Action Plan components and the aggressive proposals for the proposed Project appear to lay
the groundwork for the RTG to play a regional leadership role in dealing with this complex set of
issues, although the increased importance of communication and coordination among the Action
Plans' implementing agencies is a cause for concern given the lack of any tradition or
adm.nistrative culture to foster such close working relationships. Generally, positive progress has
been achieved in implementing the current Action Plans, but some issues remain which have now
bc_ome priority areas for implementation under the proposed Project. Annex 2 presents the agreed
Action Plans and a more detailed discussion of the content of the major action items agreed. The
most significant components of the proposed Action Plans extension for implementation during the
1996-99 period include:
(a)    The National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) began the elimination of leaded
regular gasoline from Thailand's fuel supply effective September 1,1994, at which
time unleaded regular gasoline became available in all retail outlets. Accelerated
refinery modifications has enabled NEPO to advance the schedule for this major
milestone, and have resulted in more than 80 percent of all gasoline sold in
Thailand during the third quarter of 1995 being unleaded, with the elimination of
all leaded gasoline scheduled for December 1995.
(b)    The Land Transport Department (LTD) has initiated the process of licensing
privately-operated vehicle inspection stations in a six-province "pilot" area
centered on Bangkok. Although much remains to be done in developing the
inspection program (e.g. see points below on testing procedures and LTD quality
assurance/supervision), the LTD decision to begin actual implementation of a
vehicle inspection program for private cars, trucks and motorcycles represents an
extrem.ely significant step, while properly limited to the "pilot" area of highest
priority concern during the developmental period. The Action Plan includes the
evaluation of this pilot effort as the basis for establishment of a national l/M and
safety program.
(X)    To supplement the formal I/Mv program, an aggressive on-road emissions testing
program is also proposed to identify and force the repair of the worst-polluting
vehiicles, including those in the RTG-owned fleet.. This wil! require the active
cooperation of DPC, LTD and the Police, as well as the development of an
appropriate data network to be supported during the Action Plan period.



- 10-
(d)    The Department of Pollution Control (DPC) is preparing and has begun to submit
to the National Environment Board a series of revised emissions standards for new
and in-use vehicles, as well as revised ambient air quality standards. DPC has also
announced that. under the Action Plan, white smoke/particulate standards are being
developed as quickly as possible, with special focus on motorcycle emissions.
(e)    LTD continues to make progress tovw'ard establishing the Vehicles Emissions
Laboratory to be operated jointly with DPC. The laboratory building has been
constructed and the equipment has been tendered, while the LTD/DPC operations
protocol is under discussion. Although delayed by siting/land acquisition issues,
LTD is similarly prcceeding with. the Demonstration Inspection Center to support
their quality control and training requirements for the inspection prograrn. Both of
these facilities featured prominently in the Fourth Highway Sector Project Action
Plan and remain ongoing priority items in the updated program.
2.11   Technical assistance provided under the Fourth Highway Sector Project has produced
recommendations on interim air quality standards and provisional inspection tests for in-use
ve'iicles, and resulted in suggestions which have been incorporated by LTD and the Department of
Pollution Control (DPC) as the basis of proposed Action Plan additions under the proposed Project.
Under the Fourth Highway Sector Project, a study was carried out to provide an initial analysis of
the potential feasibility of expanded natural gas/LPG use in the transport sector. The second phase
of this ongoing study will include further work on promising applications of gas/LPG technology in
Thailand. Another irr.portant technical assistance component under the ongoing project is providing
advisory support to LTD and DPC in initial implementation of the current Action Plans and
preparing the updated/extended programs included under the proposed Project.
2.12l  The Action Plans represent coordinated packages of policy and regulatory reforms,
procedural and institutional changes, and physical improvements that are designed to substantially
improve conditions in the road sub-sector. The Action Plans directed at vehicular pollution and
traffic safety are expected to have major benefits for the urban population, in particular, by
improving air quality and decreasing injuries and fatalities caused by traffic accidents.
Implementation of some measures included in or relating to the Action Plans has already been
completed or is in progress. The Action Plan Coordinating Unit within MOTC, in concert with
other involved agencies, has also selected a program of priority items in each plan which either lay
the basis for further action or address critical, long-standing issues. These priority programs (or key
items included in the programs) were selected for implementation and more detailed p.eparation,
dialog.ae and monitoring under the proposed Project. Financing arrangements for priority items
included in the Action Plans are shown in Annex 2 and include major roles for RTG as well as the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). Implementation of the Action Plan items would be monitored
during the project period (see para. 3.31). During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that it would, by March 31, 1996 and by March 31 of each subsequent year until
completion of the project, carry out, jointly with the Bank, a progress review of the scope and
implementation of the Action Plans for Reduced Vehicle Emissions and Noise and Traffic Safety
and consult with the Bank with regard to the scope and nature of activities to be carried out under
the Action Plans in the course of the following fiscal year, paying due regard to the monitorable
performance indicators agreed with the Bank as well as comments and recommendations.



- I1 -
C. TRAFFic SAFETY
2.13   Governraent statistics indikate traffic accidents in Thailand rising by an estimated annual
average of 15 percent during 1982-92, and traffic-related deaths reported in 1992 totaled about
10,2C0, amounting to a rate of about 12.1 deaths per 10,000 vehicles. This rate is slightly higher
than those of many cf Thailand's neighbors (e.g. Malaysia and Philippines at 9), but around six
times higher than rates in the developed countries (Japan 1.8, Australia 2.3). The numbers are,
however, thought to be even higher since accident records in Thailand are neither accurate nor
complete. The factors responsible for the high accident rate include inappropriate design of some
road segments, poor vehicle condifion due to inadequate maintenance, and unsafe driver behavior
owing to inadequate driver education and the use of drugs and alcohol (especially by truck
operatcrs). Aggravating the situation is the broad mix of vehicles on the roads, the high proportion
of trucks and buses mixed with the very high number of motorcycles and the growing fleet of cars.
2.14   In recent years, the Government has taken significant actions to address these problems,
such as estabiishing the National Safety Council in the Office of the Prime Minister to coordinate
the traffic accident reduction efforts of the various agencies involved; launching a DOH "black
spot" program, which includes road improvements and the provision of traffic signals and signs,
guardrails, pedestrian bridges, etc.; and outlawing the use of amphetamines by truck drivers. In
1993, two important regulations becarme effective requiring: (i) all vehicle operators to be covered
by third-party liability iiisurance, under which drivers wish high accident records will pay higher
pre.niums or give up their licenses; and (ii) the use of helmets by motorcyclists to reduce the
severity of accidents.
2.15   Under the Fourth Highway Sector Project, the MOTC has awarded a consultant contract to
study and develop a strategy for action to address road safety issues and establish a long term Road
Safety Master Plan. The initial phase of the Plan would be funded under the ongoing project and
would include strengthening of institutions concerned with road safety, an improved accident data
system, improved vehicle testing, educational programs and a multi-media public awareness
campaign. The proposed Action Plans to address road safety and air quality related to transport (See
the matrix in Annex 2), also include the establishment of traffic safety discipline in school
curricuta, improved law enforcement and traffic surveillance, vehicle safety inspections, and
improvements ki transportation of toxic wastes.
D. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
2.16   Although the Government does not directly link the level of road-related taxes to road
expenditures, a DOH study has shown that total road user revenues, principally from customs and
excise duties, more than cover annual expenditures for construction, maintenance and general
administration of the road network (Annex 1, Tables 7 & 8). An analysis of the distribution of tax
revenues compared with the costs imposed on the network, in terms of physical damage caused by
various types of vehicles, reveals that trucks (and heavy trucks in particular) are likely to be
undercharged. Furthermore, while automobiles, motorcycles and other light vehicles may
contribute adequately with regard to pavement damage, it is less clear whether the related charges
on these vehicles represent the costs of congestion which they impose on the system. In addition,
externalities such as noise and air pollution have not been considered in the pricing equation.
2.17   The increasing need for more highway capacity, particularly for an extended inter-urban
motorway system, has raised interest in finding additional resources, preferably from road users.



- 12-
Fuel prices are in line with those in neighboring countries and are higher than the opportunity cost
of refined products (Annex 1, Table 10). The RTG, realizing that it could no longer fully finance
the needed highway capacity expansion solely from its own budgetary resources decided to carry
out a "Long-Term Strategic Investment Study" financed under the Fourth Highway Sector Project.
The objectives of the study were to carry out a highway investment master plan for the next twenty
years and review alternative financing mechanisms available to Government, including tapping of
capital markets and relying more on the private sector to finance a share of future highway
expansion and pricing and taxation options. One of the main objectives of the study was to develop
options which will raise revenues while ensuring more appropriate user pricing to support or
improve allocative efficiency and environmental goals. The study was completed in May 1995, and
the RTG is currently reviewing the study implications for future highway investment plans.
2.18   During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that by June 30, 1996, the
results and findings of the Long Term Strategic Investment Study would be discussed with the
Bank, and that by June 30, 1997, a time-bound action plan would be prepared and furnished to the
Bank based on the findings of the study, and all necessary measures to promptly implement such
Action Plan would be taken with due regard to the recommendations made by the Bank.



- 13 -
3. BANK PARTICIPATION
A. PROJECT FORMULATION
3.1    During the past decade, the Government of Thailand has shifted its focus from the
construction of an adequate road network to serve socioeconomic development of the country to the
protection of past investments through increased and improved highway maintenance and
rehabilitation. During this time, with the rapid growth of road traffic throughout the country and
particularly in the Bangkok area, a number of critical issues have emerged related most notably to
traffic congestion, road safety and the environmental impact of the vehicle emissions and noise
associated with high traffic flows. The Government has recognized the importance of these issues
and has already adopted some significant measures to address them, focusing in the first instance on
the air quality and enviromnental assessmeent issues which have broad potential impacts on the
population. It began. to deal with these issues in earnest under the ongoing Fourth Highway Sector
Project and expects to further advance its agenda in this area under the proposed Project. The
proposed Project, in addition to focusing specifically on improving air quality and road safety
thnrugh the establishment of a comprehensive vehicle inspection system would also focus on
assisting DOH to meet its targets in providing additionai highway capacity to meet the ever-
increasing traffic levels, particularly on the main trunk road network. The loan, together with
proceeds from the Fourth Highway Sector Project (Loan 3446-TH), would finance a slice of about
4 peircent of total expenditures under DOITs Seventh Highway Plan during the last year of the plan
period (and some of its carry over into the Eighth Plan, i.e., Government FY1996-99).
B. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.2    The rapid growth of the Thai economy during the last decade raises two sets of issues that
need to be addressed in order to sustain development. First, the quality and adequacy of physical
infrastructure, particularly of transportation facilities, are emerging as key constraints to medium-
te-m growth. Infrastructure bottlenecks are already serious in the Bangkok metropolitan region, and
now extend to many secondary towns. Secondly, the environmental impacts of rapid growth,
particularly due to the increase in demand for transport and energy, are raising concerns about the
quality of future growth. As a recent Bank economic report (Report No. 11770) found, the social
costs of traffic congestion and transport-related air pollutants are already high and would continue
to rise without concerted policy actions.
3.3    Hence, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Thailand, which was discussed by the
Board on September 22, 1994, considers these two areas among the priorities for Bank lending and
policy advice. The proposed Project is a logical extension of the efforts initiated under the Third
and Fourth Highway Sector Projects. It sets the stage for developing a longer-tern transport
strategy as the opportunities for widening existing roads are reduced and as public sector resources
fall short of financing requirernents raising the need to attract private funds. Moreover, it continues
to build on government efforts to address the environmental and safety implications of road traffic
growth. While a more direct treatmrent of these latter issues, particularly in BMR, through a
specific urban transport project or urban environmental project may be called for, the institutional
make-up of Thailand has made it difficult to develop such operations. The Highway Sector Project
series, however, has served as an effective instrument to address many of these issues with



- 14-
significant implications for BMR as much of the related sectoral policy responsibilities lie within
the purview of the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
C. OBJECTIVES
3.4    With the gzneral objective of meeting the continued rapid growth in transport demand
resulting from sustained economic growth, and to address critical issues associated with transport-
related enviromnental pollution and traffic safety, the project aims specifically at: (a) furthering the
implementation of actions aimed at reducing environmental degradation and vehicular accidents
atLributable to fast growing motorization through the establishment of a privately operated vehicle
inspection system; (b) improving the quality of service of the inter-urban road network thorough
increased road capacity and improved safety standards of existing roads; and (c) providing a
systematic basis for the establishmert of environmentai assessment criteria at the design stage as
well as environmental management during and after new road construction and capacity increases.
D. DESCRIPTION OF BANK-FINANCED COMPONENTS
3.5    The project would finance the tollowing components over a period of about four years:
(a)    civil works sub-projects for capacity increases involving the widening to four lanes
and rehabilitation of the existing two lanes of selected sections of the country's
major inter-urban national highways;
(b)    consulting seivices for the design and supervision of DOT-s road widening
program;
(c)   technical assistance and training to LTD, DPC, DOH and MOTC related to air
quality, highway safety improvements, and institutional development, and;
(d)    sirengthening environmental assessment and mitigation management capacities at
DOH and OEPP.
Capacity Increases Through Widening
3.6     ub-prWjecta. Widening works would be comprised of the construction of two new lanes
(embankment. pavement, drainage, structures, etc.) and, as required, the rehabilitation of the
existing two lanes (rnostly pavement works) and the construction of intersections with other major
roads most of which would be at-grade, all to be in accordance with class "D" of DOI's standard
for a divided highway, which is acceptable to the Bank. Works would be carried out entirely along
existing alignments and within the existing right-of-way.
3.7    Design and Supervision. DOH carries out about half of the annual design work load, while
the remainder is carried out by local consultants with some assistance from foreign consultants for
major or especi.;lly complex designs The design of some 250 km of roadworks as described above
would be financed under the project and carried out by consultants under four contracts which
would require a total of some 400 staff-months of mostly local consultants. Supervision of civil



- 15 -
works would be carried out by DOH staff supplemented by about 100 staff-months of local
consultants and 25 staff-months of foreign consultants for overall coordination.
3.8    Sub-projects for financing under the project were selected and agreed at negotiations for
the first year of project implementation and by March 31 annually thereafter based on procedures
and econom;c and technical criteria, including an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent, as
agreed by the Government and the Bank under previous sector loans (para. 3.17).
Institutional Strengthening of DOH
3.9    DOH, with assis[ance from consultants financed under Loan 3446-TH, is developing a
future strategy for road investments and new approaches to the associated necessary resource
mobilization, including restructuring of road user charges and the collection of tolls, as well as
planrning a revised organizational structure to administer and operate roads of the future. The study
was completed in May 1995 and Government is formulating an Action Plan based on the findings
of the study for discussion with the Bank. DOH has agreed to allocate resources from its own
budget to cover the costs of consultant services to assist in the implementation of follow-up actions
to the studv.
Improvements to DOH's Training Facilities
3.10   Previous projects provided funds for, inter alia, construction of two training centers, one at
headquarters and the other at Chon Buri. The building at headquarters was completed and fully
equipped in 1992 and has been in continuous use since. Completion of the center at Chon Buri was
delayed uptil 1993 and although in use, it is seriously lacking in furniture and in training equipment
and aids. Also, housing for teaching staff has been occupying a significant part of the dormitories
because housing for such staff is not available. To assist DOH in increasing their current training
caracity (about 5,000 staff on average annually in courses of 1 to 65 days duration as well as a few
hundred highway officials from Laos and Myamnar), ADB has agreed, under its Second Regional
Roads Sector Project, to provide financing to add housing for teaching staff at the Chon Buri center
and to furnish and equip the center to make it fully operational.
Environmental Capacity Strengthening of DOH and OEPP
3.11   As a follow-up to DOH's SEA for the highways program (paras. 2.3 and 2.4), the project
includes a technical assistance component of US$5.0 million for a strengthening program for DOH
for enviromnental assessment and the EA oversight capacities of OEPP. The component includes
training, preparation of guidelines and manuals, and program development. Approximately 186
staff-months of technical assistance by international and national consultants in the environmental
and technical fields would be provided under this component through seven contracts, ranging from
3 to 100 staff-months. (Draft terms-of-reference for the various technical assistance assignments are
detailed in Annex 3.)
,.12   In addition to its own resources, the Government will implement the program with support
from the World Bank and ADB. The Bank will provide US$2.0 million for financing of the
environmental specialist, development and use (including training) of guidelines for design,
strengthening DOH's capacity to deal with social issues, and strengthening OEPP's capacity to
review and monitor the EIA process for the road sector. The technical assistance will be about 80



- 16-
person months under four contracts. Financing of the training program, strengthening of the DOH
Environmental Unit (EU), and other remaining activities will be provided by ADB (US$ 2.0
million) and the Govemrment.
Action Plan Implementation
3.13    The project includes funding for technical assistance and training and some minor
equipment purchases to assist MOTC, LTD, DPC and associated agencies to implement the Action
Plans dealing with the reduction of motor vehicle emissions and noise as well as traffic safety (See
Annex 2). Approximately 10 contracts for 400 staff-months of technical assistance and advisory
services by local and international professionals would be covered under this component.
Financing would be provided from Government resources (US$13.7 million), as well as support
from the ADB (US$2.0 million) and the Bank (US$2.19 million). In addition, funds would be
provided for short courses and training of staff from the principal Action Plans implementation
agencies. Consulting assignments may be redefined to focus on specific tasks as defined in the
Action Plans as they are reviewed periodically.
E. COST ESTIMATE AND FINANCING
3.14    Project Costs. Together with remaining balances of the Fourth Highway Sector Loan, the
proposed Bank loan of US$150.00 millioii would finance about 7.5 percent of the last year
expenditures of DOH's Seventh Investment Plan and carry-overs into the Eighth Plan (Government
FY 1996-99). The ADB would provide US$6.00 million under its Second Regional Roads (Sector)
Project. Table I shows the cost of the various project components.
Table 1: Project Costs by Component
(US$million)
US$                          Baion  Iaht Million  Percent
CompS.nent                          Local   Foregnp   Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Foreign
Road Widening
Civil Works                        139.81    139.81    279.62   3,495.3   3,495.3   6,990.5     50%
Design                               6.00      4.00     10.00    150.0    100.0    250.0        40%
Construction Supervision             8.00      2.00     10.00    200.0      50.0    250.0       20%
Subtotal   153.81    145.81    299.62   3,845.3   3,645.3   7,490.5    49%
Institubtionl Development (DOH)        0.20      0.80      1.00      5.0      20.0      25.0      80%
Environmentlo  Unit (DOH & OEPP)       1.00      4.00      5.00     25.0     100.0    125.0       80%
Traiing Faclities (DOH)
Housing (for teaching staf)          0.78      0.42      1.20     19.5      10.5      30.0      35%
Training and Teaching Aids           0.08      0.72     0.80       2.0      18.0      20.0      90%
Subtotal     0.86      1.14     2.00      21.5      28.5     50.0      57%
Action Plans Components
Pollution Control                    1.20     10.09     11.29     30.0    252.3    282.3        89%
Traffic Safety                       2.98      2.06     5.04      74.5      51.5    126.0       41%
Action Plans Coordinating LTnit      0.45      1.12      1.57     11.3      28.0      39.3      71%
Subtotal     4.63     13 27    17 90     115.8    331.8    447.5       74%
TOTAL    160.50    165.02    325.52   4,012.5   4,125.    8,138.0      51%
Exchange Rate: 25 Baht per US$



-17-
3.15    The foreign exchange component for civil works is estimated at about 50 percent,
assuming that execution will be mostly by local contractors as has been the case in recent years. For
constu:tancy services, the foreign exchange component is estimated at about 40 percent for design,
20 percent for supervision and 80 percent for technical assistance.
Table 2: Project Financing by Component
US$ Million                      Baht Million
Component                           Govt.    Bank   ADB I Total   Govt.   Bank   ADB   Total
Road WVidening
Civil Works                       139.81    139.81    -     279.62   3,495   3,495    -      6,991
Design                              6.00      4.00    -       10.00     150     100   -        250
Construction Supeivision            8.00      2.00    -      10.00     200      .50    -       250
Subtotal  153.81    145.81    -     299.62   3,845   3,645   -       7,491
Institutional Development (DOH)        1.00       -      -       1.00      25      -     -        25
Environmental Unit (DOB & OEPP)        1.00      2.00   2.00     5.00      25       50    50      125
'T'raining Facilities (DOH1
Housing (for teaching staff)         -         -     1.20      1.20     -       -      30       30
Training and teaching aids          .-    0.80                0.80      -       -      20       20
Subtotal     -         -     2.00     2.00      -       -      50       50
Actior. Plants Components
Pollutioa. Coiitrc' /a              9.08      1.40   0.81    11.29     227       35    20      282
T1affic Safety                      4.31       -    0.73      5.04      108     -       18     126
Action Plans Cocruinating Unit      0.32      0.79   0.46      1.57      8       20    12       39
1..71     2.19   2.00     17.90     343      55    50      448
TOTAL   169.52   150.00   6.00   325.52   4,238 T 3,750 T 150   8,138
Exchange Rate: 25 Baht per US$
a/ Government'. p.rtion of the Pollution Control subcomponent includes US$ 1.0 million financed by a Japanese
grant from the Policy and Human Resources Development Fund.
F. IMPLEMENTATION OF BANK-FINANCED ACTIVITIES
3.16    As under the previous four highway sector projects, MOTC would be responsible for
executing most parts of the project through its Departments of Highways (DOH) and Land
Transport (LTD). DOH would be responsible for all civil works components, while LTD would
execute selected activities under the actions plans for road traffic safety and vehicle emissions
inspections. The remaining Action Plan activities would be carried out by the respective agencies
concerned and coordinated by the APCU, with DPC playing a leading role with regard to vehicle
emissions. (para. 2.7)
3.17    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it will, by
December 31, of each year until completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank, for its review and
approval, a list of sub-projects to be financed under the project, and that the selection of sub-
projects to be financed under the project will use technical, environmental and economic criteria



- 18 -
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, including (i) a minimum economic rate of return
of twelve percent (12 percent) and (ii) measures adopted by the Borrower to avoid or minimize the
involuntary resettlement or relocation of persons occupying the land acquired to carry out the
respective sub-projects. Any sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement of persons would
be subjected to the preparation of a Resettlement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank.
3.18   Project supervision by the Bank would require about 96 staff-weeks over the life of the
project, of which about 29 staff-weeks would be at headquarters for review of progress and audit
reports, procurement actions, etc. and 67 staff-weeks would be in the field. This input is higher than
the average but is dictated by the complex nature of the Action Plans, which require considerable
input by exverts. Supervision would be provided by a highway engineer, transport economist and
specialists in fields covered by the Action Plans. The borrower's contribution to supervision would
include daily supervision of implementation, the preparation and submission to the Bank of reports
on various subjects, including implementation progress, and coordination of the Bank's field visits.
A project supervision plan is shown in Annex 4. Supervision of the project's civil works program
would be coordinated with ADB and OECF, the other major external agencies supporting
implementation of the Seventh Highway Plan (para. 3.31).
G. PROCUREMENT OF BANK-FINANCED INPUTS
3.19   Procurement of project inputs would be carried out as shown in Table 3:
Table 3: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method             Total
Project Element                               ICB       Other /a    ADB /b        Cost
Civil Works                                 279.62         --         1.20       280.82
(139.81)      (--)        (-)       (139.81)
Consultant Services and Training
Engineering & Supervision                 --        20.00         --        20.00
(--)       (6.00)       (--)       (6.00)
Studies & Technical Assistance            --        16.40        2.00        18.40
(--)       (4.19)       (--)       (4.19)
Training                                  --         3.50        2.80        6.30
( )   (--)     (--)       ~~~0.00
TOTAL                279.62       39.90        6.00      325.52
(139.81)     (10.19)      (-)       (150.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
a/  Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
bh   ADB is supporting the Institutional Development and Action plans through parallel financing
under their Second Regional Roads Project.



- 19-
3.20   Civil works financed under the Bank loan would be carried out under contracts procured on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
1995 Guidelines and using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Pre-qualification of contractors
would be carried out annually under procedures also in accordance with Bank Guidelines and using
the Bank's standard documents. However, foreign contractors would always have the option of
being considered for any tender throughout the year. Pre-qualified contractors would be allowed to
bid on any contract or group of contracts for civil works but would be eligible for awards only up to
the value of works for which they are pre-qualified.
3.21   Consultants would be employed in ac.cordance with the Bank's Guidelines and using the
Bank's Standard Documents for the use of consultants. Outline terms of reference for this
assistance are included in the project file. The Institutional Development and Training Facilities
components, as well as the ADB-financed portions of the Action Plans Components, would be
procured in accordance with ADB's procedures.
3.22   DOH and LTD would be the main procurement agencies. Both have experience in carrying
out procurement under Bank-financed projects as this will be the fourteenth highway project
implemented by DOH and the fifth with LTD involvement. Both agencies will use the Bank's
standard documents for tendering and contracting. Minor components of the Action Plans would be
carried out by agencies with less experience in project implementation, including procurement, but
these agencies would be assisted in procurement and other implementation matters by technical
advisers in the APCU.
3.23   A draft Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in December, 1994, and
was sent to the Government tor review. Dialogue with the Government is continuing on several
items. However, in the context of this project, the Borrower's procurement regulations and
procedures for projects financed by external loans were reviewed by Bank staff and found to be
consistent with Bank guidelines.
3.24   Under the project, Bank-financed works c3ntracts above US$15.0 million each would be
subject to prior review by the Bank; this review is expected to cover about 90 percent of estimated
total contract values. Contracts for consultancy services estimated to cost more than US$100,000
for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review.
H. DISBURSEMENT
3.25   Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan would be made against applications based on
contracts for sub-projects eligible for Bank financing as follows:
(a)    Civil Works: 50 percent of total expenditures;
(b)    Consultant Services and Training: 100 percent of total expenditures.
3.26   For the civil works and environmental assessment components under the responsibility of
DOH, the project would use the Government's established internal revolving fund system which
enables the Controller General's Department to advance funds from its own resources to line
agencies for expenditures in both local and foreign currencies. When project expenditures reach
US$50,000, the Controller General's Department will batch the withdrawal applications and submit
them to the Bank for disbursement. Disbursement for consultants' contracts costing less than



- 20 -
US$100,000 each for firms and less than US$50,000 each for individual consultants and
disbursements for training would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
3.27   For all APCU project components, withdrawal applications would be grouped as far as
possible to meet the US$50,000 minimum, but for small technical assistance contracts and training,
the minimum withdrawal application would be US$20,000 to facilitate prompt payments to the
various agencies involved.
3.28   A schedule of estimated disbursements (Table 4) has been prepared on the basis of a
tentative implementation schedule prepared by DOH and APCU. The projected disbursement
profile for the proposed Bank participation is broadly in line with recent highway implementation
performance. It is expected that loan disbursements will be completed in about four years. The
Completion Date of the project would be December 31, 1999 while the Loan Closing Date would
be June 30, 2000.
Table 4: Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$million)
Cumulative
Disbursement    Disbursement at end of
IBRD FY / Semester       per semester          semester
1996
June 30, 1996                    3.00                3.00
1997
December 31, 1996              30.00                33.00
June 30, 1997                  30.00                63.00
1998
December 31, 1997              30.00                93.00
June 30, 1998                  30.00               123.00
1999
December 31, 1998              25.00               148.00
Ju:ne 30, 1999                  2.00               150.00
I. MONITORING AND AUDITING
3.29   DOH and LTD would be responsible for administering most contracts under the proposed
loan, but APCU would also administer contracts for technical assistance required for
implementation of the Action Plans. These agencies would keep records of all procurement
documents (including bids and proposals and their evaluation and contract awards) as well as
official decisions on each agreed contract, showing accumulated expenditures, monthly payments
and other administrative data. Based on these records, the agencies would regularly prepare reports
showing this information, as instituted under the previous highway sector projects. The Bank would



- 21 -
reserve the right to inspect and review the documentation maintained on individual contracts by the
agencies and would be sent copies of documents on request.
3.30   In order to fully monitor the progress of the Action Plans, the environmental strengthening
component and the associated technical assistance inputs, it is appropriate that a Mid-Term Review
of these proiect components be carried out. Such a review will allow the Bank and the
implementing agencies to: (i) take stock of the implementation progress taking into account initial
performance indicators and evaluation criteria; (ii) review, update and approve established Action
Plans for the following phase, including updating cost estimates; (iii) evaluate the environmental
strengthening program and prepare a revised implementation program; (iv) discuss all related
activities in the road sub-sector financed by other donor agencies, and; (v) exchange information
among Implementing Agencies and propose solutions to implementation issues. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it would prepare a report, furnished
to the Bank no later than January 31, 1998, evaluating the progress achieved in implementation and
including a draft plan for work to be carried out during the remaining period of implementation
and, with the Barnk, conduct a Mid-Term Review, occurring no later than March 31, 1998.
3.31   The annual consultations on the highway program and budget and on the overall Action
Plans implementation would provide the major opportunity for reviewing progress of the
investment plan for the national roads and the implementation of the proposed Project. Monitoring
and supervision of the project would focus on the following: (a) the evolution and subsequent
confirmation of the annual programs and their financial and physical targets for the road investment
and maintenance programs; (b) the progress made in pursuing the institutional and sub-sectoral
objectives of the project included in the Action Plans for road traffic safety and pollution control,
and; (c) the implementation progress of Bank-financed sub-projects. A set of key indicators would
be established to measure the effectiveness of the Action Plans: for road traffic safety - annual
changes in the rate of accidents, including the number of injured and dead, and property damage
costs; for air and noise pollution control - annual changes in the level of pollutants emitted by
vehicles; and for the vehicle inspection system - annual changes in the rate of failure to pass
inspections.
3.32   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that: (a) the
implementing agencies would keep separate accounts for the proposed Project; (b) the project
accounts, including documentation for SOEs, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, with the audit also including a separate opinion on SOEs used as a basis for
disbursement, and; (c) the detailed audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within nine months
of the end of each government fiscal year.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
3.33   Project support to the ongoing Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle Emissions and Noise
Pollution would have a positive effect on the environment. Thailand's rapidly increasing
motorization has been accompanied by serious health hazards posed by high levels of vehicular
emissions and noise in urban areas. The dangerous effects of respirable particulate matter, high lead
levels and high carbon monoxide levels are now of growing concern to the population at large. The
Government has recognized and begun to alleviate this situation through the introduction of lead-
free gasoline and improved smokeless lubricants as well as the mandating of tougher noise and
emissions standards for new vehicles. Action Plan components to be carried out under the project
would address these issues through the further strengthening of fuel standards, the development of



- 22 -
more stringent -missions standards, vehicle inspection and roadside testing targeted to reduce
vehicular pollution in the country's urban areas, particularly Bangkok.
3.34   In preparation for the Fifth Highway Sector Project, DOH carried out a sectoral
environmental assessment (SEA) for its Seventh Highway Plan Program. The SEA focused upon
the development of a medium-term strengthening program for DOH project environmental
assessment (EA) capacities, as well as related review capabilities at the OEPP, to respond to the
mandate of the Thai National Environmental Quality Act (NEQA) of 1992 and the Bank's
Operational Directives on EA and resettlement issues. Both DOH and OEPP have agreed to the
propcsed budget and implementation arrangements for the strengthening program, and have
formally endorsed the SEA. The SEA Summary has been made available for comment locally,
within the Bank and publicly through the Bank's Public Information Center. This SEA document is
one of the first of its type produced under updated Bank procedures for Sectoral EAs, released in
October 1993.
3.35   DOH  has confirmed that the recommended process (Annex 3, Figure 5.1) for
environmental assessment (EA) would be applied for all new sub-projects under the Seventh and
subsequent Highway Plans. These procedures, which are generally consistent with the Bank's EA
requirements, call for the screening of all projects for their environmental impacts at the feasibility
study stage and incorporation of any needed mitigation measures in the project design. DOH has
provided EA screening summaries for all ongoing projects for which Bank financing is committed
or proposed under the project. These projects mainly involve rehabilitation and widening of roads
on existing alignments and within existing rights-of-way. EA screenings of additional sub-projects
to be financed by the Bank would be submitted by the newly-created DOH Environmental Unit and
found acceptable prior to Bank funding of such sub-projects. Although not anticipated under this
project, DOH has agreed that full EA reports, following guideline terms of reference previously
agreed with the Bank, would be carried out for all projects entailing new rights-of-way or expected
to have a significant environmental impact.
3.36   DOH will routinely monitor the sub-projects to assess the effectiveness of any mitigation
measures included in their designs and will include any necessary additional measures for
environmental protection in supplemental investment programs or the maintenance budgets for
such projects. Bank supervision missions will also review the results of the screening process and
the coordination between DOH and OEPP for all highway sector sub-projects, not only those
financed by the Bank, in conjunction with assessing the effectiveness of the EA strengthening
component. Although essentially no resettlement is required for sub-projects currently identified for
financing under the proposed Project, copies of Bank guidelines and requirements for resettlement
of persons displaced by project works have been provided to DOH, which has agreed that in the
event that resettlement is required, it would prepare a resettlement plan to be submitted to the Bank
for approval.
K. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
3.37   The proposed investments under the project are limited mainly to the widening of key
sections of RTG's main trunk road network, representing about 90 percent of the project costs. All
of these works are subjected to feasibility studies based on criteria reviewed and approved by the
Bank. Cost estimates are based on preliminary engineering studies, and the benefits consist of
savings in vehicle operating costs, maintenance cost savings, and diverted or generated traffic
benefits, whenever applicable. Time savings are not included, except in cases where congestion is a
factor. Vehicle operating cost savings are based on the terrain in which a particular sub-project is
located and on the traffic composition and growth. DOH maintains a country-wide system of



- 23 -
regular traffic counts and updated vehicle operating costs. The minimum economic return for sub-
projects to be included in the plan is established at 12 percent. A tentative list of sub-projects
submitted for inclusion in the Bank program have rates of return ranging from 19 to 63 percent. All
sub-projects to be included in the proposed Project will be selected in accordance with the
methodology which has been approved and reviewed periodically by the Bank.
3.38   The economic assessment of the other project components, i.e. the Action Plan items
relating to the air quality and road safety as well as the DOH Environmental assessment
component, is more complex and, by necessity, of a qualitative rather than quantitative nature.
These items are deemed to have substantial positive benefits, not only to the transport sector, but
also to the improved health and well-being of the population at large. As such, the benefits cannot
be easily quantified, although the key indicators developed to monitor the progress of Action Plan
implementation (Annex 2) will provide objective measurements of some benefits of Action Plan
components.
L. PROJECT RISKS
3.39   There is no serious risk that DOH will falter in the implementation of its investment
program as road works to be carried out under the program largely follow the alignments of
existing roads, minimizing property disturbances and land acquisition for rights-of-way. The main
project risks relate to Action Plan implementation. While implementation of some Action Plan
measures were delayed under the Fourth Highway Sector Project, the momentum has now been
established and implementation has progressed satisfactorily. However, the political sensitivities of
some of the issues will undoubtedly cause some implementation problems. To counter this
possibility, continued use of technical assistance would be made under the project to prepare and
implement the various components and a coordinating unit, established under the Fourth Highway
Sector Project, is continuing to assist MOTC in the overview of Action Plan components.



- 24 -
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on:
(a)    carrying out with the Bank, by March 31, 1996 and by March 31 of each
subsequent year, annual reviews of the scope and implementation of the Seventh
Highway Plan and of the Action Plans for Reduced Vehicle Emissions, Noise
Pollution and Traffic Safety. (paras. 1.12 and 2.12);
(b)   the implementation of the Action Plans for Reduced Vehicle Emissions, Noise
Pollution and Traffic Safety with due regard to monitorable performance
indicators. (para. 2.12);
(c)   the preparation of a tine bound action plan, furnished to the Bank no later than
June 30, 1997, on the basis of the recommendations of the Long-Term Strategic
Investment Study. (para. 2.1 8);
(d)    furnishing to the Bank, for its review and approval by December 31, of each year,
a list of sub-projects to be financed under the project, the selection of which will
use technical, environmental and economic criteria agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, including: (i) a minimum economic rate of return of
twelve percent (12 percent), and; (ii) measures adopted by the Borrower to avoid
or minimize the involuntary resettlement or relocation of persons occupying the
land acquired to carry out the respective sub-projects. (para 3.17);
(e)    accounting and auditing arrangements which are satisfactory to the Bank,
including: (a) the maintenance of separate accounts for the proposed Project; (b)
annual audits of the project accounts, including SOE documentation; and (c)
submission of the detailed audit reports to the Bank within nine months of the end
of each government fiscal year. (para. 3.32);
(f)    approval and implementation in accordance with an agreed implementation
schedule of the environmental assessment guidelines and the land acquisition,
resettlement and compensation guidelines. (para. 3.36);
(g)    a report to prepare for the Mid-Term Review (See sub-paragraph (h), below), and
furnished to the Bank no later than January 31, 1998, evaluating the progress
achieved in imiplementationi and a draft plan for work to be carried out during the
remaining period of implementation (para. 3.30), and;
(h)    a Mid-Term Review  with the Bank, occurring no later than March 31, 1998, to
review progress achieved, taking into account agreed performance indicators, and
to include: (i) a review and update of the Action Plans; (ii) an evaluation of the
environmental strengthening program and the preparation of a revised
implementation program; (iii) a discussion of all related activities in the road sub-
sector financed by other donor agencies, and; (iv) an exchange of information
among Implementing Agencies and proposal of solutions to implementation issues.
(para. 3.30).



- 25 -
4.2    With the a'bove assurances, the proposed Project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$150.00 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Thailand for 17 years, including a four-year
grace period, at the Banks standard variable interest rate.






Annexes






-26-                              Annex 1
Page 1 of 10
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
The Highway Subsector
A. The Highwav Network
1.    At the end of 1994, Thailand's public road network totaled about 218,642 km and comprised
about 57,126 km of national roads (including about 340 km of high volume, limited access special
highways) and about 146,600 km of rural roads (Table 1 to this annex and Map IBRD 26039) as well
as some 14,800 km of municipal roads, of which about 2,800 km were in Bangkok (excluding some 20
km of the Second Stage expressways opened in 1993). The national road system connects the principal
towns and regional/provincial centers throughout the country and interconnects the rural roads; it is a
very extensive system and also serve as direct access to a substantial proportion of villages and rural
population. The rural (or tertiary) roads connect the remaining villages and rural population with the
national road systems. The Northeast Region has the greatest length of national roads, with a share of
about 30%, followed by the Northern Region with 29%, the Central Region with 23%, and the South
with 17% (Table 2). For rural roads, the approximate regional distribution is 44%, 22%, 21 %, and 13 %,
respectively.
2.   Before the national and provincial highway were'combined into one national road system by the
Highway Act of 1992, the former national highway system had grown from 15,200 km to 18,300 km
since 1965, while the former provincial highway system grew from 28,700 to 33,900 km. During the
same period, the proportion of paved road had also increased from 36% to about 94% for the former
national highway system, and from about 5 % to 67 % for the former provincial highway system, and the
new national road system had 78% paved and 22% unpaved roads in 1993. Despite the rapid rate of
improvement, expansion of the former national and provincial road system has been relatively small,
averaging about 2.3% annually.
3.     The new national road system covers a wide range of design standards, surface condition and
capaciiies. The former national highway network is now almost entirely improved and paved. Most
roads are adequately aligned and have sufficient capacity for present traffic; however, increasing traffic
on several sections, particularly the main routes radiating from Bangkok, is creating congestion which
requires significant capacity increases through an increased number of traffic lanes and improvement of
intersections. In the medium term, construction of new roads will be confined to a small number of
additional links to complete the network and to shorten some routes.
4.    As for the former provincial road system, there is still an existing need to upgrade several
thousand km of unpaved and unimproved roads, virtually all of which serve as rural access roads. These
roads have not been constructed to defined engineering standards and often lack permanent drainage
structures and have little, if any, gravel surfacing; many sections are impassable during rainy weather.
5.    The rural road system is also extensive, with an average density of about 1 km per 3.9 km2. The
roads are of low standard, average about 4.5 m wide, and have traffic of less than 50 vehicles per day
(vpd). Most are unimproved or gravel roads. In the dry season, about two thirds are usually in fair
condition and one third are poor. In the rainy season, many roads become impassable. When justified by
significant traffic levels, rural roads are reclassified as national roads and responsibility for their
maintenance and improvement is transferred to the Department of Highways.



-27-                               Annex 1
Page 2 of 10
B. Road Transport
Motor Vehicle Fleet
6. The motor vehicle fleet, including motorcycles, grew from about 3.4 million units in 1984 to about
10.8 million units in 1993 (Table 4). Excluding motorcycles, the increase was from about 1.4 million
units :o over 3.7 million units, with an average annual growth of 10.8%, while motorcycles grew at
16.1 %.  Cars and pickups represented about 63%  of the total fleet of four-wheel vehicles, with
commercial vehicles--buses, trucks and other utility vehicles--making up the remainder.
7.    Car ownership in Bangkok is still low, at about 120 per thousand population in 1992, with
motorcy cle ownership at 181 per thousand. A doubling of car and motorcycle ownership is expected over
the next decade. Regional car ownership is muck lower than in Bangkok (car ownership in the country
is 16 per thousand population) but varies greatly among the cities, with higher levels in the more affluent
tourist areas like Chiang Mai and Phuket. Throughout the country, road transport is dominant, carrying
about 92% of passengers and 89% of freight.
Traffic
8.     Motorized traffic (excluding motorcycles) on all national and special highways rose from about
22 billion vehicle-km in 1983 to an estimated 64 billion vehicle-km in 1992. Cars and taxis account for
about one-third of the vehicle-km, another one-third is of light trucks. About 50% of this traffic is
concentrated in the Central Region within a 150-km radius of Bangkok, highlighting Bangkok's leading
role as the center of government, commerce, industry and transport. Over 90% of non-urban traffic
(excluding motorcycles) is concentrated on national roads, with the remainder on rural roads. The national
roads show great variations in traffic density. About 15% of the roads account for about 55% of the
traffic, and about 35% of the road length accounts for about 70% of the traffic. In 1993, some 16,600
km of national roads had traffic of less than 1,000 vpd (Table 5), 31,400 km had traffic between 1,000
and 6,000 vpd, while about 6,000 km had traffic over 6,000 vpd. Medium (6 wheel trucks) and heavy
trucks (10 wheel trucks, full- and semi-trailers) in general account for between 25 % and 60% of the total
vehicle-kms. Only some 1,600 km of the network have four lanes or more, while the 6,000 km of roads
with traffic over 6,000 vpd would soon need to have four lanes or more. DOH's Seventh Highway Plan
calls for an increase in the number of lanes of some 3,250 km of national roads (1,891 km of four-laning
and 1,358 km of other widening schemes such as climbing- or passing-lanes), while the widening of
highways in the 6th Plan carry-forward accounts for 1,246 km.
Trucking Industry
1.    About 400,000 trucks now operate in Thailand but many other types of vehicles, including pick-
ups, act as commercial vehicles. Most of these vehicles are owner-operated, although a few firms have
several hundred vehicles each. The Government-owned Express Transport Organization (ETO), which
has a monopoly for certain services, has about 1,200 trucks. The 834 common carrier truck license
holders, including ETO, control the operation of 37,000 trucks. Overall, the truck fleet is old and makes
use of recycled 10 wheel trucks which are usually not fuel efficient nor environmentally friendly. At
present, some 3,700 trucks or 1 % of the total fleet are articulated vehicles which can carry high payloads
with lower axle loads than the typical 10 wheel truck. The trucking industry has been the subject of a
two-phased study completed in 1988 with financing under previous Bank-assisted projects.
2.     Trucking Regulation. Although the trucking industry is essentially free of economic regulation,
periodic and regular pressure is applied for more regulation, purportedly to prevent destructive



-28-                                Annex 1
Page 3 of 10
competition within the industry or with the railway and to reduce the high percentage of empty truck
hauls, which waste fuel and other resources. Some of these initiatives attempt to prevent competitors
from entering the free transport market. Regulatory inroads have, however, been made by ETO, which
has trucking monopolies for: (a) transport of freight landed at Klong Toey port; (b) a number of
Government-specified commodities; and (c) until recently, transit traffic to and from Laos and Malaysia.
However, ETO was not given exclusive rights to serve the new Laem Chabang port on the Eastern
Seaboard. Until recently the ETO had been expanding, despite generally acknowledged poor performance
in cost and services. In the face of increased private sector competition, ETO has been experiencing
financial losses for the past two years, but is likely to make a small profit in fiscal year 1994, following
personnel and operational changes. The size of ETO's work force (over 4,000 staff) has protected it from
reform. ETO, however, represents a small part of the trucking industry as its total tonnage transported
is only about 2% of total road freight transport demand.
3.    A peak-period truck ban has been in force in Bangkok for about 20 years. The industry appears
to have adjusted its practices to fit in with the ban, but has vigorously resisted regular attempts to have
the times and area of the ban expanded.  About two years ago, the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MOTC) received three proposals for the establishment of truck terminals in outer parts
of Bangkok. These are still under consideration. Prior to a final decision being made the LTD is
planning to engage a consultant to conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment. as required by law.
Thie economic benefits of truck terminals are by no means clear, but any benefits would be rapidly eroded
if use of truck terminals was made compulsory.
4.     Truck Overloading. Overloading of trucks is fairly common and has implications for road safety,
maintenance and the enforcement of road traffic laws. Truck overloading, however, is essentially limited
to the major bulk commodities, which are carried on ten-wheel trucks largely on the major trunk
corridors. There are ten permanent truck weighing stations in the national highway system, all operated
by DOH with the participation of its Highway Police Patrol. In addition, DOH has some 35 mobile
teams with portable scales. The Trucking Industry Study concluded that existing axle loads and gross
veliicle weight limits should be increased, although to date the Government has retained the existing
maximum axle weight of 9 tons. The composition of the truck fleet is, however, changing. While six-
wheel trucks are the main offenders for overloading, increased use is being made of multi-axle trucks
which, while permitting heavier loads, may also distribute the loads so that maximum axle loads are
acceptable.
Inter-city and Rural Bus Transport Industry
5.     The country's inter-city and rural bus fleet consists of about 60,000 vehicles, about half of which
are light buses (vehicles with more than seven passengers) and half are heavy buses. In general, the
buses are operated by very small operators with few management skills. A two-phased study to assess
the efficiency and effectiveness of the bus industry, the Study of Intercity and Rural Bus Transport
(SIRB). carried out under the Second Provincial Roads Project (Ln. 22311-TH), estimated that in 1989
the industry had the following structure: one company, the Government-owned Transport Company (TC),
had 592 buses; 20 firms had more than 100 buses; 400 firms had an average of about 24 buses each;
45,300 firms had one vehicle each; and 490 license holders had no vehicles.
6.     For historical reasons, there is a high incidence of affiliation or "middle men" in the industry.
The SIRB estimated that 58% of all bus license holders own no buses of their own but rather subcontract
the rights to operate to affiliates. Only 14% of all license holders own all the buses operated under their
licenses. As policy, TC operates only 9% of the 6,600 buses permitted on their licenses. The SIRB
concluded that this extent of affiliation in the industry should be reduced over time as it is a major barrier



-29-                                 Annex 1
Page 4 of 10
to encouraging the development of larger operators with better management and operational skills.
7.     Thailand's regions are well served by the intercity and rural bus systems. The inter-city bus
services running regular fixed route services are largely operated by the private sector, although the State
Enterprise Bus Operator (the Transport Company) monopolizes all of the 188 routes operating between
Bangkok and the provinces, using some 4,600 buses. However, the Transport Company sub-contracts
about 90% of the services to private operators. In addition, tourist buses and charter tours are operated
by private bus operators on non-fixed routes, using approximately 6,000 buses. There is also a well
developed system of bus services operating between the major provinces and within provinces.
C. Highway Administration
8.     The MOTC, through DOH, is responsible for the administration, planning, construction and
maintenance of the national road systems (Chart 1). MOTC's Land Transport Department (LTD) is also
responsible for initiating and administering legislation on the use of roads, including registration of all
vehicles and the licensing of commercial vehicles. The 73 provinces and municipalities, under the
Ministry of Interior (MOI), are generally responsible for the rural roads, assisted by a number of MOI
agencies.
Departrnent of Highwavs
9.     The DOH is responsible for the classification of all roads and road systems, for the initiation of
legislation concerning the construction, maintenance and protection of all roads and for the preparation
and implementation of programs and budgets for the development and maintenance of national roads.
While other government departments and agencies also build and maintain roads for special purposes,
DOH's highways activities cover about 66% of total investments in the sector. The Department's
expenditures for 1987-93 is shown in Table 6.
10.   The DOH is a well-organized and well-operated agency, which functions with considerable
autonomy. Its organization (Chart 2) is adequate, comprising 18 divisions at the Bangkok headquarters,
15 field divisions and 85 highway districts located in the provinces. In addition, the Highway Patrol
Police, under the operational control of the Police Department, is under DOH for administrative and
budgetary purposes.
11.   The DOH's staff of about 8,400, including about 1,400 professionals, is adequate to carry out
its functions and responsibilities. The professional staff, 840 of whom are engineers, is largely capable
and experienced. Most of the staff are civil servants, with their remuneration determined by government
salary scales.
12.    During the last 10-12 years, DOH has gradually improved its training facilities and programs.
This effort culminated under recent Bank-assisted highway sector projects which financed a new training
center at DOH's headquarters and another at Chon Buri. These projects have also financed equipment
and training aids as well as consultant services to assist in the review and revision of course contents and
curricula. In the past few years (1992-94), about 120 courses have been given annually, each of 1-65
days duration and attended by between 4,000 and 6,000 staff. In addition, with some bilateral assistance,
DOH has trained a few hundred highway officials from Laos and Myanmar and has plans to offer similar
services to Cambodia and Viet Nam. DOH's present training facilities and programs are considered
mostly adequate for its expected operations during the next few years, although further training needs will
be identified under the ongoing study of DOH's long-term strategy and institutional capacity, being



-30-                                 Annex 1
Page 5 of 10
carried out under loan 3446-TH. However, housing for teaching staff and improved outfitting (furniture,
equipment and teaching aids) of the center at Chon Buri is still required, especially if training of foreign
highway officials continues and expands, and the proposed project will therefore provide funds for this
purpose.
Depaitment of Land Transport
13.    The LTD's main responsibilities are the regulation of road transport and road use, including route
and operator licensing of commercial vehicles and the setting of tariff ceilings for road transport,
standards of road vehicles and equipment, vehicle safety and emission inspections and the setting and
collection of road user taxes. LTD's organization (Chart 3) is adequate for the discharge of its present
duties, with 11 divisions at the Bangkok headquarters and 76 provincial offices. It has about 5,300 staff,
of whorn about 3,000 are involved in private vehicle registration, driver licensing and related functions
conferred on LTD after it took over responsibility for administering the Motor Vehicles Act in 1988.
Of the baiance of the staff, about 700 have college degrees. LTD has difficulty in attracting suitably
qualified stath, particularly those with previous training in transport-related matters. As a result, staffing
levels of many LTD Divisions, primarily in areas requiring tertiary eduction, are well below their
pernitted maximum; some sections have only half of their normal staffing.
14.    LTD's new responsibility for private vehicles and increased role in vehicle inspection and
enforcement require the Department to fill existing staff vacancies with trained personnel and in some
areas to recruit additional staff. Recruitment of additional staff as well as continuous training of new and
existing staff will also be needed in conjunction with the upcoming introduction of LTD's computerized
Management Information System (MIS), if the system's potential is to be realized.
15.    Despite efforts to increase its capabilities, LTD needs further strengthening in order to keep pace
with the country's rapidly increasing motorization and road use. Ongoing Bank-assisted highway projects
are providing LTD with training and equipment for vehicle inspections while the proposed project would
finance technical assistance and equipment to strengthen LTD's staff in specified functions.
16.    A greatly expanded training effort is, however, needed. A program should therefore be prepared
to address both the vocational and tertiary training needs of LTD staff, using a range of training delivery
methods to reach the various levels of the organization.  The latter might include: (a) overseas
observation trips for senior managers; (b) short courses for new staff and refresher courses for existing
staff, accompanied by manuals and texts in Thai; (c) post-graduate training study assistance for selected
staff; and (d) possible support for relevant training programs at local universities. In particular, formal
training courses are needed in: transport planning, administration, and economics; vocational areas such
as impfoved vehicle inspection; use of computers at a basic and advanced level; automotive engineering;
control of vehicle noise and exhaust emissions, etc. The main objective of the program should be to
assist the Department effectively fulfill its increasingly important role as a manager and administrator of
the nation's vehicle fleet and its use.
D. Highway Planning and Environmental Assessment
17.    Planning. The DOH Planning Division prepares its highway development programs and drafts
annual budget proposals for national roads on the basis of highway sector objectives included in the
Government's five-year development plans as well as proposals put forward by DOH field offices, the
provincial authorities and other ministries and departments. Prior to being accepted, all project proposals
are subjected to a field reconnaissance, during which DOH collects data for a preliminary assessment of



-31-                                Annex I
Page 6 of 10
the works required, their cost and project economics. The Planning Division then ranks the proposals
in approximate order of priority and prepares a draft development plan, based on economic criteria. For
smaller projects, particularly those financed wholly by the Government, little further preparation is
undertaken, other than detailed engineering. For major construction projects, detailed feasibility studies
are carried out, usually by consultants due to DOH's limited resources. DOH has been relying on joint
ventures of foreign and local consultants to help in preparing its main work programs; however, with
Asian Development Bank (ADB) assistance, it is now establishing a modern pavement management and
planning system which allow it to be mostly self-sufficient in planning, although local consulting
assistance will be required at times of peak workloads.
18.   Draft five-year development plans prepared by DOH for national roads (and by MOI for rural
roads) are reviewed by the inter-ministerial Land Transport Coordination Committee, under MOTC, to
ensure adequate coordination and balance. The draft plans are then reviewed by the National Economic
and Social Development Board (NESDB) for the size of the total program and its relationship to national
priorities. The plans must then be approved by the Cabinet. After approval, the plans are periodically
reviewed and revised to reflect changed priorities and availability of funds.
19.   The current 7th Road Improvement Plan (7th Plan) period is from October 1991 to September
1996 (FY92-FY96), but it has not been formally approved.  The Draft 7th Plan contains about 15,000
km of road improvement or upgrading, with an estimated cost of 95,206 million bahts (in 1990 prices).
Over 60 per cent of the budget was allocated to the strategic components of the plan, including widening,
new links and the initial sections of the proposed motorway system. The remaining 40 per cent of the
budget was allocated to rehabilitation/reconstruction or paving projects, and the 7th Plan includes an
initial 200 km of the proposed national motorway network (144 km of Bangkok-Petchaburi route and 54
km of Chonburi-Map Ta Phut on the Eastern Seaboard area) at an estimated cost of 14.8 billion Baht.
20.   Only some 20% of the 6th Plan program was completed during its plan period and many projects
that were begun during the 6th Plan period are still under implementation in the middle of the 7th Plan
period. Also, a number of projects included in the 6th Plan were carried over and started in the 7th Plan
period (but are still referred to as 6th Plan projects). The carry-over expenditures amount to some 75
billion Baht, of which about 80% are for new links and widening projects in the Central Region which
were added to the 6th Plan at its mid-term review in 1989. Thus, very few real 7th Plan projects have
been started and expenditures so far have been negligible.
21.   DOH is looking beyond its previous five-year horizon and beginning long-term investment
planning. With assistance from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), DOH has prepared
a strategic plan for development of a motorway network of over 4,000 km. Loan 3446-TH is providing
DOH with technical assistance which is presently formulating recommendations for a long-term strategic
plan to identify possible sources of investment financing, including the tolling of motorways and the
potential of private sector participation. The proposed project would provide DOH with technical
assistance and resources to implement the recommendations of the ongoing study.
22.   Environmental Assessment. The road widening and rehabilitation activities of the project focus
on works to be carried out on existing alignments and typically within the existing right-of-way which
are unlikely to cause significant impacts.  All sub-projects will be screened and appropriate EA
documentation prepared by DOH taking into consideration potential environmental impacts in compliance
with RTG and Bank EA guidelines. Minor and short term impacts which may arise during the
construction phase will be mitigated through the use of appropriate guidelines for design and construction.
In cases where property acquisition will be required, this will generally concern minor widening of right-
of-way in the vicinity of new interchanges. DOH has offered assurances that any resettlement will be



-32-                                Annex 1
Page 7 of 10
handled in accordance with Bank guidelines.
23.   A sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) has been prepared both to confirm the adequacy of
current practices and to suggest improvements/ strengthening needed and DOH has established a new
environmental unit to manage the DOH EA process. As a sector project, the preparation activities have
included a comprehensive assessment of RTG's environmental review process and capabilities for the
highway subsector (the SEA) which will lead to improved practices and enhanced capabilities, supported
by a. separate $5 million component under the project, including institutional strengthening of key sector
agencies to improve environmental management capacities based on the results of the sectoral EA. Bank
operational planning includes close supervision of the EA process as well as strengthening project
implementation. As DOH reaches the limits of its possibilities of widening existing highways within
existing rights-of-way, and increasingly seeks new highway/motorway alignments, it is important that
DOH capacities for environmental assessment and management be developed to deal with more significant
environmental issues.
E. Highwav Financing and Road User Charges
24.   Highwav Financing. The highway subsector is financed from (a) general budgetary revenues and
(b) foreign loans and grants. Road user taxes are not earmarked, except for the relatively small proceeds
from vehicle registration fees, which are distributed among the Police Department and the local
governments. Sections of three inter-urban roads were operated as toll roads until 1993 when toll
collection was abolished. However, DOH will consider instituting tolls on selected roads in the future.
In recent years, external funding of investments for national and provincial roads has amounted to around
9 % of total expenditures and about 15 % of road construction and improvement costs. The ADB, Japan's
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and the World Bank have been the principal sources of
external financing and are expected to remain so through the Seventh Plan.
25.   The increasing need for more highway capacity, particularly for an extended interurban motorway
system, has caused the Government to seek additional sources of financing. Since traffic levels on the
proposed four-lane roads are normally sufficient to justify tolls, consideration is being given to the use
of tolls on these roads. The Expressway and Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand (ETA) imposes tolls
on its network of urban expressways, including a recent Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) scheme to
encourage private financing of expressway development. Recognizing the potential for tolling, the
Government is taking steps to establish a rational approach to toll rate setting, and MOTC is expected
to become responsible for proposing appropriate toll levels. There is thus a need for assistance in
developing a methodology for determining such toll rates.
26.   Road User Charges. Although the Government does not directly link the level of road-related
taxes to road expenditures, a DOH study has shown that total road user revenues, principally from
customs and excise duties, more than cover annual expenditures for construction, maintenance and general
administration of the road network (Tables 7 and 8). An analysis of the distribution of tax revenues
compared with the costs irrmposed on the network, in terms of physical damage, by the various types of
vehicles reveals that trucks, particularly heavy trucks, are undercharged and do not pay adequately.
Furthermore, while automobiles, motorcycles and other light vehicles may contribute adequately with
regard to pavement damage, it is less clear whether the related charges on these vehicles represent the
costs of congesticn which they impose on the system. No analysis has been carried out on the use of road
taxes to encourage greater fuel efficiency and environmental improvements in vehicles and their use which
could enhance the effectiveness of recent regulatory initiatives on these issues. It should be noted,
however, that fuel prices, the principal instruments for such objectives, are lower in Thailand than in



-33-                                Annex I
Page 8 of 10
neighboring countries (Table 9).
27.    LTD is currently reviewing registration charges for all vehicles and will present proposals to the
Ministry of Finance. The proposed charges will take into account the purchase price of the vehicle and
its engine capacity. LTD's preferred option would greatly increase charges for all vehicles (by about
three times), particularly for heavy vehicles, and would be automatically updated each year (see Annex
5). It is expected that the Long Term Strategic Investment Study will address these concerns.
F. Hi,liway Engineering and Construction
28.    DOH's Location and Design Division is responsible for the engineering of national roads. In
recent years the division has undertaken a substantial part of such work itself, employing consultants
when needed but particularly for externally financed projects. Almost all the firms engaged in detailed
engineering are Thai, since domestPc consultants have expanded in numbers and capability in recent years.
Foreign consultants, employed only to a limited extent and chiefly on specialized studies, usually operate
in joint venture with Thai consultants and employ only a few key foreign staff.
29.    As the program of road improvements and new construction has increased in scope and
complexity (motorways, grade-separated interchanges), more of engineering has gradually been given to
consultants. However, under Loan 3446-TH DOH is procuring an up-to-date computer aided drafting,
design and engineering management (CADEM) system which will both increase and modernize DOH's
design capacity at the same time. Even with this increased capacity, at least 50% of DOH's engineering
design work will need to be carried out by consultants.
30.    DOH has a range of geornetric design standards for national roads which are appropriate to the
road ciass, terrain and traffic volumes. It has also established design standards for use by the MOI
agencies charged with this task. For the design of flexible pavements and overlays, DOH uses the U.S.
Asphalt Institute's method, one of the most conservative methods in conmmon use, taking into account
observed and measured existing condition and traffic volumes and estimated loadings projected for the
next seven years. However, designs for 15 year traffic loadings are also prepared, and the initial (seven
year) thickness determined so that the additional pavement thickness required for carrying the traffic from
year 7 through year 15 is within a practical range for asphaltic concrete overlays. The result is that
pavements are somewhat over-designed when compared to practices in most other developing countries.
31. About 90% of DOH construction is by contract. The rest is by force account through DOH's
National and Special Highways Construction Divisions. This construction includes the improvement of
sorne existing national roads and of some rural roads to be incorporated into the national road system,
usually for training purposes in eight training centers set up with bilateral aid. Rural road construction
is now also predominantly by contract. Some small projects, undertaken by the provinces, districts and
groups of villages, are largely constructed by force account with a high proportion of hand labor. Even
though the DOH started a study on the reduction of direct labor and further increase of contracted works,
it is expected to need several years to realize it.
32.   The Thai industry has evolved during the past 20 years or so from infancy to maturity, and in
1993 the Thai Contractors' Association had about 800 members. The industry's growth is partly due to
a 1964 decision of DOH to increase the volume of highway construction by contract and to reduce its
force account works. Thai contractors have in general performed satisfactorily and the quality of work
has usually been good. The evolution of the domestic industry can be attributed to the initiative of local
entrepreneurs, fostered by the Government's policy of using competitive bidding to award contracts for



.34                                Annex 1
Page 9 of 10
an overwhelming proportion of its large and continuous stream of road works. International competitive
bidding by prequalified firms is normally reserved for contracts financed by external sources and for
specialized construction work. Construction supervision is usually carried out by DOH, which, over the
years, has developed an efficient system to coordinate project execution. Local and foreign consultants
are used extensively on foreign-financed projects, with the role of foreign consultants confined to overall
management and assistance with special problems.
G. Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation
33.   DOH is responsible for maintenance of the national road system while maintenance of most rural
roads is the responsibility of the 73 provinces, often with assistance from MOI and the municipalities.
Roads for the operation of irrigation projects are maintained by the Royal Irrigation Department, and
some national defense roads, mainly in the frontier areas, are maintained by the army.
34.   DOH's maintenance activities are planned and supervised by its Maintenance Division and carried
out by its 15 field divisions and 85 field districts. Most routine maintenance operations are performed
directly by the field districts, and periodic maintenance is done by contract under the supervision of the
field divisions and districts. Large-scale foreign-financed periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works
are carried out by contract and supervised by DOH headquarters.
35.   DOH's ability to organize and perform road maintenance has greatly improved over the last ten
years. A highway maintenance study carried out in 1976 under the Fifth Highway Project established the
framework for the maintenance of national and provincial roads. During the period 1978-81, under the
Sixth Highway Project, technical assistance was provided to help DOH set up an internal maintenance
equiprront hiring system (tl'e Revolving Fund); the system's goals are to improve the efficiency of
equipment management and utilization and to provide for the prompt supply of spare parts and funding
of the regular replacement of worn-out equipment. Although limited operation of the fund began in 1983,
it was not fully operational until 1988 when the required legal, administrative and financial arrangements
had been completed.
36.   DOH has developed two new systems; a Pavement Management System (PMS) to help its
Maintenance Division in assigning priorities for maintenance of paved roads under its control and a
Bridge Management System which serves as data-base in assigning priorities of bridge maintenance and
rehabilitation.
37.   The national network is in reasonable condition. In 1993, some 62% of the paved network was
rated good, 20% fair and 18% poor (Table 3), but the condition of the network's high-volume corridors
is somewhat better. Nonetheless, an important part of the system is approaching the end of its design life
and is increasingly in need of major repairs and rehabilitation as the network ages and as traffic volumes
and loadings increase much faster than anticipated at the design stage. Furthermore, until about 1985,
expenditures on road maintenance and rehabilitation were often below the levels needed to prevent general
deterioration of the road network. While the over-designing of pavements (para. 30) counteracts some
of the potential pavement damage from high traffic volumes and overloading, DOH estimates that during
each of the next five years, some 2,550 km of the network will need to be rehabilitated and about 2,290
km upgraded to paved standard; this indicates that more than 5% of the network will annually require
major improvement during the Seventh Plan period.
38.   DOH's road maintenance expenditures were inadequate until about 1985 when expenditures began
generally to match requirements. Maintenance expenditures in the Seventh Plan amounted to about



-35-                                Aimex 1
Page 10 of 10
US$3,900 and 4,400 per km in 1992 and 1993, respectively and are planned to increase to about
US$8,000 per km in 1996. Together with the significant amount of rehabilitation and upgrading works
planned during the Seventh Plan period, these allocations are considered satisfactory.
39.    The Maintenance Division has started a program to pave shoulders of national roads, mainly on
sections within 15 km from major cities, 10 km from small cities and five km from villages, where there
are more bicycles and slow moving vehicles. This program is proving successful in shifting slow moving
traffic from the pavement proper to the shoulders and consequently contributes to increasing the capacity
and safety of these sections. The Division estimates that necessary budget for this program is 2 billion
Baht and that it will take 10 years to implement.



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Length  of Highway  Network  irn Ithailand  by  Road  C;asF
Road Class & Responsible Agency    1982   1983  1  1984        19L5      1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994
1. Special Highway (DOH)          84.0       84.0     193.4      1 °3.4    193.4      193.4     193.4      193.4     193.4      193.4     193.4      292.0     337.0
2. Expressway (ETA)                 8.9      16.8      16.8       27.1      27.1       27.1      27.1       27.1       27.1      27.1       27.1      47.0       47.5
3. National Highway (DOH)      15,511.0  15,497.0  15,499.0  15,507.6  16,329.6  16,378.6  16,504.6  17,47?.6  18,251.6  19,711.6  54,195.0  56,610.0  56,789.0
4. Provincial Highway (DOH) /a    28,361.0  28,714.0  28,951.0  29,457.0  30,026.0  32,034.0  33,170.0  ?3,415.0  33,860.0  32,546.C
5. Rural Roads               1050._39.6  106.401.6 -07967. 6 108 8 S21.6  109.821.6  110.788.6  11078.6 1 19. 9020.6 1122.357.6  127,120.6  134,045.6  140.504.1  146,639.6
- The Office of Acceierated Rural
Development                16,582.0  17,392.0  17,251.0  13,551.2  19,r66.0  19,506.0  19,506.0  19,506.0  19,606.0  22,126.0  28,604.0  32,111.6  34,678.0
- The Royal Irrigation Department   3,893.0   4,203.0   4,602.0   4,872.0   5,173.0   5,200.0   5,200.0  12,400.0  15,028.0  15,458.0  15,762.0  15,762.0  18,582.0
- The Public Works Department  2,914.0   3,156.0   3,364.0   3,643.0   3,932.0   4,432.0   4,4?z.0   5,464.0   6,173.0   7,886.0   8,029.0  10,979.9  11,729.0
- Others /b                  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6  81,650.6
6. Municipal Roads              8.541.7   8.541.7   8,541.7   8.544.4  i.O 174.4  14.709.0  14 7090   14.,709.0  14724.0  14.724.0  14724.0  14.724.0  14829.0
- BMA                         1,152.3   1,152.3   1,152.3    1,155.0   2,785.0   2,785.0   2,785.0   2,785.0   2,800.0   2,800.0   2,800.0             2    2,905.0
- Other Cities                7,389.4   7,389.4   7,389.4   -,389.4   7,389.4  11,924.0  11,924.0  11,924.0  11,924.0  11,924.0  11,924.0  11,924.0  11,924.0
Total            157,546.2  159,255.1  160,769.5  162,551.1  166,572.1  174,130.7  175,392.7
Total Length of DOH Roads  43,956.0  44,295.0  44,643.4  45,158.0  46,549.0  48,606.0  49,868.0  51,082.0  52,305.0  52,451.0  54,388.4   56,902.0  57,126.0
a/ Provincial Highways were subsumed under the National Highways pursuant to the Highway Act, April 11992.
b/ The last measurement of Other Rural Roads was made in 1981. Figures are maintained by the Office of Accelerated Rural Development.
Source: Department of Highways, October 1995



-37-                                 Annex I
Table 2
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Department of Highways Special and National Roads by Region,
Road Class and Surface Type
(km)
Maintenance Length              Under
Region   Concrete  Asphaltic  Laterite    Total    Construction    Total  %
North           72    11,712     1,420    13,204     1,519        14,723  28.8
Northeast      279    12,833     1,442    14,554      704         15,258  29.8
Central      1,202     8,922       820    10,944      756         11,700  22.9
South          378     8,030       504     8,912      533          9,445  18.5
TOTAL    1,931 |  41,497 [   4,186   47,614 |   3,512    |51,1261 100.01
Source: Departmenit of Highways, Computer Division, October 1995



-38-                                          Annex I
Table 3
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Special and National Roads:
Surface Type and Condition
Length          Percent
(km)           Peren
Type of Roads
Paved                                   43428             85
Unpaved                                  7698             15
Total Length      51126             100
Surface Type of Paved Roads
Bituminous Surface Treatrnent           16503             38
Asphaltic Conci ete                     20411             47
Penetration Macadam                      3909              9
Cement Concrete                          2606              6
Total      43429             100
Conditions of Paved Roads
Good                                    26925             62
Fair                                     8686             20
Poor                                     7817             18
Total      43428             100
Source: Department of Highways, October 1995



-39-
Annex I
Table 4
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Number of Vehicles Registered by Type
THAILAND           |      1984               1989                1990                1991                 1992               1993 /a
Type          Number  %   Number  %   Number  %   Number  %   Number  %   Number  %
Private Cars            506,114   15.1      637,243    9.8     777,345   10.2      796,087    9.4       890,821    9.3      1,022,137    9.4
Private Bus              175,915    5.2     363,177    5.6     445,093    5.9      482,455    5.7       505,756    5.3       547,722    s.I
ick-Up                 .397,954   11.9    787,028   12.1      925.936   12.2      957,865   11.3    1,119,727   11.7      1,313,438   12.1
Taxi                      16,827    0.5      16,827    0.3      16,827    0.2        16,351    0.2       21,472    0.2         39,038    0.4
Tuk - Tuk                 19,614    0.6      19, 14   0.3       19,614    0.3       20,492    0.2        32,650    0.3         42,490    0.4
Motorcycles            1,911,220   57.0   4,153.000  63.8   4,778.220   62.9    5,521,391   65.1    6,307,800   65.7        7,106,893   65.6
Bus                       i5,699    1.7      67,627    1.0      71,680    0.9       76,359    0.9        78,786    0.8        81,591    0.8
Truck                   200,612    6.0      277,153    4.3     330.540    4.4      363,089    4.3       397,640    4.1       420,920    3.9
Other                    68,994    2.1      183.351    2.8     226.829    3.0      246.936    2.9       240,539    2.5       261,620    2.4
T'otal                 3 352 979 I_o-    6,505,020   100    7,592,084   100    8,481,025   100    9,595,191   100          10,835,849   100
BANGKOK                   1984                1989                1990                1991                1992               1993 /a
Type           Number  %   Number  %   Num ber  %   Number  %   Number  %   Number  %
Private Cars            392,359   34.7      470,927   27.4     598.223   29.2      594,078   28.1       649,563   27.4       727,054   27.4
Private Bus             124,056   11.0      232,689   13.5     300.938   14.7      324,517   15.4       338,336   14.3       364,782   13.8
Pick-Up                  65,495    5.8      236,082   13.7     268.598   13.1       156,136    7.4      217,336    9.2       272,190   10.3
Taxi                      13,493    1.2      13.493    0.8       13,493    0.7       13,493    0.6       18,505    0.8         35,967    1.4
Tuk - Tuk                  7,406    0.7       7,406    0.4       7,406    0.4         7,406    0.4        7,352    0.3          7,405    0.3
Motorcycles             435.l6  3b.5       644,597  37.4      72s,679   35.6      887,289   42.0    1,006,302   42.4       1,105,084   41.7
Bus                       15,985    1.4      19,528    1.1      20.923    1.0       23,199    1.1        23,394    1.0        24,074    0.9
Truck                    42,102    3.7       58,040    3.4      67,987    3.3       79,167    3.7        84,328    3.6         86,768    3.3
Other                    33.401    3.0       38.824    2.3      39.567    1.9       27.233    1.3        28,172    1.2         29,202    1.1
Total              |   1,129,813| 1001   1,721,586 | 10o    2,045,814 1 100  12,112,518   100    2,373,288   100            2,652,526
a/ 1993 figures are estimates of the Land Transport Department
Source: Land Transport Department



-40-
Annex I
Table 5
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Special and National Roads:
Traffic Volumes and Divided Highway Lengths by Region
I ~        ~~ . :                             
<1,000                      5,664       6,878        2,051        2,051       16,644
1,000 - 2,000                 2,740        3,878        2,328        1,683      16,639
2,000 - 4,000                  2,681       3,353        2,727        1,559       10,320
4,000 - 6,000                  1,116        1,326       1,263         780        4,485
6,000 - 8,000                   362          272         468          625         1,727
8,000- 15,000                    565         324          962          434        2,285
15,000 - 50,000                  249          179        1,109         207         1,744
50,000 - 100,000                    0            0         229           20          249
> 100,000                        0            0          23            0           23
TOTAL                       13,377      16,210       11,160        7,359      54,116
Average ADT per km                2.817        2,766       7,957        4,039        4,025
4-lane               1       112          431         689          133         1,365
6-lane                         3           12          88           46          149
>6-lanes                        7            5           76                       88
TOTAL                         123          447          8521        179         1,602
a/  Shown only for roads with applicable traffic counts available.
Source. Denartment of Highways, Traffic Engineering Division, May 1994



THAILAND
FIFTH HI3HWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Department of Highways Expenditures, 1988-1995
(Baht Million)
Budget
Item                         1988       1989       1990       1991       1992      1993       1994        1995
Administration                                    2.025.2   2.246.7   2,8436    3.089.8   3.605.9   6.282.0    8.362.0  14.450.5
General Administration                            1,019.4    1,205.0   1,415.8    1,648.8    1,858.2   2,111.3    2,166.9    2,295.2
Administration for Engineering                       90.5       94.4      113.7      135.3      154.2     235.6      245.6       293.8
Administration for Operation                       266.3       306.9     346.3      340.4      351.2      381.1      453.3       483.7
Right-of-way Acquisition                           310.5      315.8      621.8      531.7      788.2   3,014.9    4,968.9   10,817.1
Administration of Construction Centers               83.3       72.3       91.3       99.3       87.9     151.4       108.9      104.1
Highway Patrol                                     255.2      247.8      248.9      333.2      363.5      386.2      418.3      456.6
IBRD Loan 2894-TH                                                4.5        5.8        1.1        2.7        1.5        0.1      -
Special Highway Construction and Improvement         175.9      474.2      582.9   1,113.6   1.277.0   2.615.5    3.285.8   4.680 4
Highway Constructaon. Rehabilitation and Upgrading  4.231.2   5.485.0   7.928.8   8.549.1  11.008.5  16.079.8  19.109.2  20.275.8 
National Highways                                 1.602.7    2206.9   3.624.2   3.895.7    5,928.9   9.370.9  10.876.2  12499.8 
Primary Highways                                644.7    1,211.7   2,377.1    2,370.9   3,237.4   4,689.2    6,670.0    8,440.3
Secondary Highways                              958.0      995.2   1,247.1    1,524.8   2,691.5   4,681.7    4,206.2    4,059.5
Provincial Highways /a                            2,628.5   3,278.1   4,304.6   4,653.4   5,079.6   6,708.9    8,233.0    7,776.0
Highway Maintenance                               2,813.2   2.866.5   3.528.9   4.229.3    5443.2   6.320.2    7.125.7   8.558.7
Routine Main'tenance                              1,184.7    1,186.7    1,402.6    1,619.6    1,961.9   2,085.5    2,173.3    2,391.7
Sperial and Periodic Maintenance                  1,628.5    1,679.8   2,126.3   2,609.7    3,481.3   4,234.7    4,952.4    6,167.0
Security Roads                                       611.8      631.4     640.8      646 8      797.7      8391       680.8       701.0
oad Improvement for Tourist Area                                Z17       39 9       2.3        532        59-5 23.8
737.8   3.462.1    1.282.7   3.400.9   5.789.4   5.670.4   3.944.1           -
Central Fund                                                      42A 
TOTAL  10,595.1   15,167.6  16,847.6  21,057.8  27,974.9  37,927.3  42,573.8  48,901.4
a/ Provincial Highways were subsumed by National Highways pursuant to the Highways Act of April, 1992.
For planning purposes, however. Provincial Highways continue to be tracked as a sub-component of the National Highway network.
Source: Department of Highways, Annual Report, October 1995



-42-
Annex I
Table 7
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Government Revenues from Road Users
(Baht Million)
Government Agensies              FY1989 I FY1990    FY1991   FY1992    FY1993
Customs Department                 19,171    27,122    19,553    18,705    25,736
Excise Duties Department           30,294    28,272    38,250    35,163    37,502
Revenue Department a/              12,339     17,512    17,512    17,512    17,512
Vehicle Registration
Land Transport Department b/      3,113      3,572     3,980      4,638     N/A
Tc!l Roads, DOH c/                    115       134        144        160
Toll Roads, ETA  d/                 1,111      1,251     1,598      1,979
Oil Reserve Fund e/                 5,715     2,420      5,225      1,738
TOTAL1   71,858    80,284    86,262 |  79,895    80,750
a/  Revised figures for FYs 91-93 are not available.
b!  In 1988, the registration of cars was transferred to LTD from the Police Department.
c,  DOH stopped collecting tolls in 1993.
d/  Includes other miscallaneous (non-tollI revenue. Collections were franchised in 1993.
e/  The oil reserve fund was discontinued in 1993.
Source:   Long-tern Strategic Study and Mission Estimates.



-43-
Annex 
Table 8
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Government Expenditures on Road Works
(Baht Million)
Government Agencies                  FY1988  FY1989  FY1990  FY1991  FY1992  FY1993  FY1994
Department of Highways                10,595   15,168  16,848  21,058  27,975   37,927  42,574
Toll Roads, DOH                           60      31       75       55     221      166      149
Toll Expressway, ETA                   1,013   2,457    2,921    2,745    7,035  25,812     -
Public Works Department                  607    1,257    2,474   3,696    5,219    5,369    2,990
Irrigation Department                    229     207      431      796     749      525      440
Office of Acce'lerated Rural Development  1,013  974    1,997   4,916    5,529    6,069    8,424
Military Mobile Development Unit         250     300      300      300     300      300      300
Communityl Development Unit                6       6        7        7        7       8        8
Public Welfare Department                 23      36       36       36      36       36       36
Bangkok Metropolitan Administration    1,452    1,427    1,437    1,422    1,383    1,829    2,318
Concessionaires                         -        -        500   2,610    1,717    1,921     -
TOTAL                  15,248 | 21,863  27,026  37,641   50,171   79,963  57,239
Source:  Department of Highways, October 1995.



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of DOH's Seventh Road Development Plan
'Million Baht)
Expected
Category      Plan Targets       1992           1993           1994            1995            1996          TOTAL        GToal   (%)  cto 8tho|
_______         _______                                 _______ _______~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Plan
c.o a/  New  c.oa/      New   c.o a;  New   c.o a/   New  c.o ai    New    c.o a/ New        c.o a/ New
Widening           1,155  3,249    6,2791-        6,446    559  4,436    477   1,929   6,002      485  17,905  19,575 24,943  44,518   37.1   35,866
Rehabilitation     3,689  5,391    2 726          5,122    556  4,746    269  2,698   1,597       896   4,896  16,188  6,768  22,956   19.1   10,881
Upgrading to
paved standard     4,201   5.119    3,531         4,190    136  3,923    631   1,719   1,618      509   2,097  13,872  4,482  18,354   15.3    3,255
New Links           649    975    1,560           2,213     67   3,045    145   5.646     380   5,307   1,855  17,771  2,447  20,218   16.i    4,361
Interchanges (No.)    6      38      604          1,639   -      2,432    -     1,986     263   3,045   1,044   9,706  1,307  11,013    9.2    6.953
Traffic Safety (No.)    -    15    -        113    -       453    -       625    -        642    -        943    -      2,776   2,776    2.3    -
New Motorways   I-           98    -        -      -       -      -       -                      -        248    -       248      248    0.2   14,202
_  9,700  14,932   14.700  1910    1     171 18,582  2,147  13,978 1      02  10,242   28,938  77j ,11242,971 120,083 1        75,518
a/ Carry over from Sixth Development Plan
Source: Post Evaluation Section, Planning Division
I'



-45-
Annex I
Table 10
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Comparative Petroleum  Product Prices to End Users in Selected Asian Countries
(US$/Gallon - January 1991 Prices)
Item               Hong Kong    Indonesia   Japan   Korea    Malaysia    Philippine   Thailand    Singapore
Gasoline.
premium              5.15         0.97       5.72    N.A.        2.12        2.57         1.88       N.A.
Gasl inc.
regular             N.A.          0.84       5.43    3.59       2.22         2.41        1.62         1.96
Diesel                3.19         0.44        3.02    1.10       0.84         1.24        1.35        0.74
Note:   Hong Kong and Japan unleaded, all others leaded for regular and diesel. Japan unleaded for premium also.
Source: Energy Detente, Vol. XMI, No. 15, August 31, l991.



-46-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 17
The Royal Thai Government's
Action Plan for Controlling Motor Vehicle Emissions
and Noise
1.    The Royal Thai Government in 1991 adopted an Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle Emissions and
Noise Pollution. That Action Plan was initiated with technical assistance under the Third Highway Sector
Project (Loan 3220-TH). Implementation of elements of the Action Plan begun in earnest under the
Thailand Fourth Highway Sector Project (Loan 3446-TH), and financing for additional elements would
be provided under the proposed Fifth Highway Sector Project. Technical assistance in implementing the
Action Plan is presently being supplied by consultants with funding from bilateral sources and from a
Japanese Grant administered by the World Bank. A second Japanese Grant has recently been approved
to support further work in the air quality area.
2.    Since 1991, the Royal Thai Government has made substantial progress in implementing the Action
Plan. Notable advances have been made in monitoring of air quality and noise levels, the establishment
of emissions standards for new vehicles, supplying unleaded gasoline and reducing the use of leaded
gasoline in Thailand, and the use of low-smoke lubricating oil for two-stroke motorcycles. Significant
progress has also been made toward implementing a vehicle inspection program - perhaps the most critical
component of the emissions control program. Nonetheless, much work remains to be done.
3.    The present revised and updated version of the Action Plan reflects the experiences gained to date
on the implementation of actions under the Fourth Highway Sector Project and ongoing discussions with
Bank missiops in the preparation of the proposed project. The Action Plan includes a balanced mix of
policies and investments to reduce the adverse impacts of motorized transport on air quality and noise
levels nationwide, and especially in the Bangkok Metropolitan Area. These measures can be grouped into
the following major categories:
i     air quality monitoring and planning;
*     epidemiological studies of air pollution effects on health;
*     improved fuels and lubricants;
*     alternative, cleaner fuels for vehicles;
*     emissions and noise standards for new and in use vehicles;
*     periodic vehicle inspection and maintenance;
*     on-road enforcement of vehicle emissions standards;
*     public information on air pollution and the role of vehicles;
*     traffic management.
In addition, the Government is continuing its efforts in mass transit and has recently expanded the scope
of the Action Plan to address water-borne transport in Bangkok, including measures to reduce pollutant
emissions and noise.
ACTION PLAN FORMULATION AND OVERSIGHT
4.    Primary responsibility for air quality policy and oversight of air quality programs lies with the
Department of Pollution Control (DPC) within the Ministry of Science, Technology, and the Environment



-47-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 17
(MOSTE). In formulating the vehicJe emission control programs contained in this Action Plan, DPC has
benefitted from technical assistance Drovided under the Japanese Grant. In addition to a number of
focussed technical assistance projects, the proposed Fifth Highway Project includes financing for
additional long-term, full-time, senior-level advisory support to DPC for policy development and
evaluation, implementation support and supervision, and ongoing development of the Action Plan.
5.    Other agencies with important responsibilities under the Action Plan are the Ministry of Transport
and Comnnunications (MOTC). especially its Land Transport Department (LTD); the Thai Industrial
Standards Institute (TISI) and the Fuel Oil Division within the Ministry of Industry (MOI); and the
National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) within the Office of dhe Prime Minister. Responsibility for
coordinating the implementation of this and the other two Action Plans (dealing with Traffic Safety and
Road Transport Efficiency) lies with the Action Plans Coordinating Unit within MOTC. This unit works
closely with DPC and LTD. Continued Bank financing for the Action Plans Coordinating Unit would
be provided under the Fifth Highway Project, as would financing for the costs of technical assistance on
vehicle emissions issues for LTD. The ADB has also agreed to finance selected elements of the Action
Plan and the RTG budget will there by far the largest share of the estimated implementation cost of these
initiatives.
MONITORING AND PLANNING
6.    The monitoring and planning component of the Government's Action Plan is intended to provide
DPC with the full range of tools and information needed to monitor existing air quality levels and to plan
for attaining healthy levels of air quality. This component comprises the establishment of air quality
standards, expansion of the existing air quality monitoring network, and development and validation of
air quality models based on accurate emissions inventories. In addition, DPC would begin taking the first
steps toward developing a similar capability with regard to ambient noise levels. Monitorable indicators
for this action program are suggested below and will be agreed with key RTG agencies not later than
during tlhe initial annual review of the progran (April 1996).
7.    Air quality standards - The Royal Thai Government has established air quality standards for a
number of pollutant species. In 1993, a consultant study funded by Japanese Grant in connection with
the Fourth Highway Project reviewed the Thai ambient air quality standards and made recommendations.
These reconmmendations are presently under consideration by an inter-agency committee. It is expected
that revised ambient air quality standards based on these recommendations are will be presented to the
National Environment Board by early 1996.
Monitorable Indicators;
Action by the National Environment Board adopting/rejecting the revised ambient air
quality standards (expected by April 1996).
8.    Air quality monitoring - Continuous monitoring of ambient air quality is necessary to identify air
quality problems and to track progress toward meeting air quality standards. The Department of Pollution
Control presently operates 32 fixed air quality monitoring stations nationwide, plus two portable stations.
DPC plans to increase the number of fixed monitoring sites to 62 stations nationwide by the end of 1997.
This will include 22 stations in Bangkok, 4 in the industrial area of Samut Prakhan, and others in the



-48-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 17
provinces surrounding Bangkok and in the other main cities and towns of the Kingdom. These will be
linked by electronic data communications to a central computer system in the DPC offices in Bangkok.
Design of this network has already been completed, with Swedish help, and a contract for the eight new
stations to be added has been signed from the 1995 Fiscal year budget. The remaining 22 stations will
be added in Fiscal 1996 and 1997.
9.     Data collected by the air quality monitoring system will be analyzed to determine the air quality
status cf each of the areas covered. DPC intends to publish the resulting characterizations in an annual
report. These data will serve as input to the air quality planning and management process within DPC
and other government organizations. It is also intended that the air-quality monitoring data will be
accessible on-line to other organizations (such as the BMA and EGAT) needing timely access to such
data. Added computer hardware and software to support this on-line data access will financed as part
of the current Action Plan.
Monitorable Indicators:
Number of air quality monitoring stations on-line and reporting data (annually)
Publication of annual report on air quality (annually)
Number of organizations having/using on-line access to air quality data (annually)
Air quality trends in Bangkok as revealed by ambient monitoring (annual updates)
10.   Emissions inventory and modeling - Ambient air quality data supplied by the monitoring network
will serve as input to a gridded air quality model. Other inputs to this model will include gridded
emissions inventory data, including stationary, mobile, and area sources. As part of the Swedish bilateral
assistance, the AIRVIRO emissions inventory and modeling software has been installed on a computer
at DPC headquarters, and DPC staff have been trained in the use of this software. Available data on
r:oint-source emissions, traffic patterns, etc. have been loaded into the emissions inventory model.
However, the model cannot yet accomplish accurate projections of emissions inventories and air quality,
due to the absence of reliable data on vehicle emission factors in Thailand. As part of the U.S. bilateral
assistance, a version of the U.S. MOBILE5 emissions model has been adapted to reflect Thai emissions
standards and vehicle fleet comnposition (modification known as MOBILE-Thai). However, lacking actual
emissicns measurerments on Thai vehicles, this model can give only a crude approximation of the likely
emissions. Further, MOBILE-Thai does not project particulate emissions, which are the pollutants of
greatest concern from mobile sources.
11.   A consultant study to update and improve the pollutant emissions inventory is planned to be
carried out in 1995, funded by the recently approved Japanese Grant. In addition, annual updates of
vehicle traffic and emissions estimates will be carried out by Chulalongkorn University.
Monitorable Indicators:
Piogress of the consultant sttidy (begin October 1995, end October, 1996)
Up-to-date status of AIRVIRO emissions inventory (annually)
Trends in emissions inventory and modeled emission concentrations projected by AIRVIRO
(annually)
Correspondence of modeled emission concentrations with measured data (annually)



-49-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 17
12.   Vehicle emissions laboratory - A vehicle emissions laboratory has been constructed and will be
equipped as a component of the Fourth Highway Sector Project. This laboratory is to be operated by the
Land Transport Department (LTD) in cooperation with the Department of Pollution Control. The
emissions laboratory will be capable of and used for measuring emissions from all classes of vehicles,
from light motorcycles up to 20 ton trucks. The resulting data will constitute the first measurements of
in-use vehicle emissions in Southeast Asia, and will be used to define the vehicle emission factors in the
AIRVIRO software and MOBILE-Thai, as well as entering directly into the air quality planning process.
Continuing measurements of in-use vehicle emissions will be used to assess the effectiveness of vehicle
emission control measures, and to identify areas of shortfall for corrective action.
13.   Once the laboratory is fully functioning, emissions testing will be carried out by LTD and/or DPC
personnel, in accordance with an operating protocol to be agreed between the two agencies. Finance for
training, technical assistance, minor additional equipment, and spare parts to support the operation of the
emissions laboratorv for the first three years will be financed under the Action Plan.
Monitorable Indicators:
Construction status of laboratory building (completed)
Status of ICB for laboratory equipment (contract signed by December, 1995, equipment
delivered by June, 1996).
Agreement between LTD and DPC on the operating protocol (by December, 1995)
Operational status of emissions laboratory (annual, beginning July, 1996)
Number of vehicles tested by vehicle type (annual, beginning January, 1997)
Trends in vehicle emissions data (annual, beginning January, 1997).
14.   Noise monitoring and modeling - Like air pollution, ambient levels of noise pollution in Bangkok
and other principal cities of the Kingdom are of significant environmental concern. Vehicles are a major,
if not the major, source of environmental noise. The DPC recently acquired noise monitoring equipment.
Monitoring is conducted at eight fixed sites, and two mobile monitoring stations are available. Under
the proposed Fifth Highway Sector Project, financing would be provided for the acquisition of noise
modeling software, to be used primarily in assessing the environmental impact of proposed projects that
would generate noise. Technical assistance and training in noise evaluation and the use of the modeling
software would also be provided.
Monitorable Indicators:
Acquisition of noise modeling software and technical assistance.
Number of locations/days of ambient noise monitoring, and results (annually, beginning
1996)
Number of projects assessed for ambient noise impacts, and results of these assessments
(annually, beginning 1996)
EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES
15.   The Bank's 1993 Country Economic Memorandum for Thailand identified air pollution -
especially lead and PM1O - as an important public health problem. An earlier study by the U.S. AID
came to the same conclusion. These studies were based on epidemiological data mostly from the U.S.



-50-
Annex 2
Page 5 of 17
and European sources. Because of the difference in lifestyles, climate, and income levels between the
U.S./Europe and Southeast Asia, the health impacts of a given level of pollution may be different. For
examppie, residents of Bangkok tend to spend much more time on the street each day than do Americans
or Europeans, and may thus suffer greater impacts from the high levels of pollution that occur there.
Epidemiological studies will be carried out in Bangkok to better characterize the impact of major air
pollution (especially mobile-source PM1O emissions) on health.  Support for these studies will be
provided by the second Japanese Grant.
Monitorable Indicators:
Progress of epidemiological studies
FUELS AND LUBRICANTS
16.   The component of the Government's plan dealing with fuels and lubricants has focussed on
improving the emissions characteristics of gasoline, diesel fuel, and two-stroke lubricating oil through
changes in specifications and investments in refinery process equipment. These measures have already
achieved significant success, and studies of possible future changes to further reduce vehicle emissions
are under way within the National Energy Policy Office. Improved monitoring and testing of fuel and
lubricant quality to ensure compliance with the specifications are also a significant focus of attention.
17.   Gasoline - The Government has moved aggressively over the last four years to introduce unleaded
gasolirne and to reduce the lead content of leaded gasoline. This has resulted in a marked decrease in
ambient lead concentrations in Bangkok. Sales of leaded regular gasoline will be completely eliminated
by December 1995.
Monitorable indicators:
Elimination of leaded regular from the market (by December 1995)
Results of field checks of gasoline composition by the Fuel Oil Division (annually)
18.   Diesel - Regulations limiting the sulfur content of diesel fuel are being phased in. Beginning
December 1995, the maximum sulfur content of diesel fuel will be limited to 0.25 % by weight. In 1997,
the limit will be reduced to 0.05%.  Some of the refinery investments necessary to meet the 0.05%
sulfur regulation are to be financed by the Bank's Bangchak Refinery Project.
Monitorable indicators:
Diesel fuel sulfur standard of 0.25% in effect (December 1995)
Diesel fuel sulfur standard of 0.05% in effect (December 1997)
Results of field checks of diesel composition by the Fuel Oil Division (annually)
19.   Monitoring of fuel guality - The Fuel Oil Division within MOC is responsible for verifying
compliance with the limits on lead in gasoline and sulfur in diesel fuel, as well as other fuel quality
specifications. Limited technical assistance in performing these tasks has been provided by consultants
supported by the Japanese Grant. Finance for additional technical assistance and training for the Fuel
Oil Division to carry out its monitoring and enforcement responsibilities wouid be provided under the
Action Plan.



-51-
Annex 2
Page 6 of 17
Monitorable indicators:
Number of staff trained and type of training (annually)
Number of diesel and gasoline samples analyzed, and nunber not meeting standards
(annually)
Actions taken against suppliers not meeting standards
20.   Two-stroke lubricating oil - White smoke emission from two-stroke motorcycles is believed to
be a major contributor to the high ambient PMIO levels in Bangkok. To help reduce these emissions,
the Government in 1991 established regulations requiring the use of low-smoke lubricating oil. Despite
these regulations, white smoke remains a very significant and visible problem. Presently, "low smoke"
lubricating oil is defined by a Thai national standard, based on a smoke opacity test in a two-stroke
motorcycle. Consideration is being given to adopting the Japanese lubricating oil standard instead, which
is said to be more stringent (this standard has also been proposed to ISO as an international standard).
Motorcycle manufacturers have also expressed concern over the variation in quality of lubricating oils
actually found in the Thai market. Responsibility for verifying compliance with the two-stroke oil
standard lies with the TISI.
Monitorable indicators:
Number of oil samples tested by TISI, and testing results (annually)
Actions taken against suppliers not meeting standards.
ALTERNATIVE FUELS
21.   Alternative fuels such as natural gas and LPG offer significant potential for reducing emissions,
especially of diesel particulate matter. LPG is widely used as a fuel for taxis and tuk-tuks, but the quality
of present LPG conversion systems is low, and emissions from converted vehicles are consequently high.
Eighty-two buses are presently operating on compressed natural gas, as part of a pilot program involving
PTT and the BMTA. PTT has also converted some light-duty vehicles to CNG operation. An ongoing
consultant study is preparing a plan to promote more widespread commercialization of clean, alternative
fuel vehicles. As part of this study, the consultant will be addressing the need for emissions and safety
regulations governing these vehicles. Funds have also been budgeted under the proposed Action Plan for
technical assistance to assist in carrying out the consultant recommendations. USAID is also assisting
RTG to explore a variety of electric battery-power option.
Monitorable indicators:
to be defrmed based on consultant study
EMISSIONS STANDARDS FOR NEW AND IN-USE VEHICLES
22.   Existing and proposed emissions standards and dates of effectiveness are listed in Table 1.
Emissions standards for new vehicies are promulgated and enforced by the Thai Industrial Standards
Institute (TISI). Standard-setting is based on the recommendations of an inter-agency committee. This
committee includes representatives of the Department of Pollution Control, Land Transport Department,
TISI, and the automotive industry, as well as academic experts in vehicle emissions. Recently, DPC



-52-
Annex 2
Page 7 of 17
(with consultant assistance) has taken the initiative to review existing vehicle standards and to develop
proposals for new and revised s:andards to be presented to the committee. Further technical assistance
to support DPC in this area would be financed under the Fifth Highway Project.
Table 1: Existing and proposed Thai vehicle emissions standards.
Level     Basis                  Emissions                Smoke    Date
1  HC      NOx       CO       PM    |_Opacity  Effective
Light-Duty Gasoline Vehicles (g/)hn)
I    ECE R15-04        4.7-6.9        14-27                        never
2    ECE R83 (b)         0.97         2.72                       Mar 1995
3    ECE R83-01          0.5           2.2                       Mar 1995
l_______              ________ Motorcycles  (g/lkn)
1    ECE R40-00   7-15       16-50                               Aug 1993
2    ECE R40-01  4.2-12   12.8-35                                Mar 1995
3      U.S. and      5        13                         30%'
< 110 cc   Taiwan                                                   July 1996
110-125   Standards                                                 July 1996
125+ cc                                                             July 1997
4      Taiwan       0.5-1     2-5      0.5   0.05-0.10    15%    Jan 1998,
Level 2
_______ _____          Light-Duty Diesel Vehicles (g/km)
1    ECE R83 (c)         0.97         2.72     0.14    ECE R24 |_Jan 1995
2    ECE R83-01          0.7           1.0      0.08    ECE R24 [ Jan 1996
l____                    Heavy-Duty Engines (g/kWh)
1    ECE R49-01    2.4       14.4 1_11.2        --    ECE R24   Never
2       Euro 1       1.1      8.0      4.5      .36    ECE R24 Jan 1997,
r  3        Euro 2       1.1      7.0      4.0      .15    ECE R24 Jan 1999,
Under discuission.
23.   Passenger cars and trucks - Regulations requiring gasoline passenger cars and trucks to be
equipped with catalytic converters took effect in January, 1992. These regulations did not require
vehicles so equipped to meet any specified emission level, however. To rectify this situation, TISI
adopted a level 1 emissions standard based on ECE R15-04 emission regulations. Compliance with this
standard is presently voluntary. It appears that the Level 1 standard will not become mandatory. Instead,
the Level 2 standard, based on the ECE R83, will become mandatory. Compliance with the Level 2
standard is required from January, 1996 for light-duty gasoline vehicles. The Government intends to
adopt Level 3 standards based on the European ECE R83-01 emission regulations, but the timing for



-53-
Annex 2
Page 8 of 17
mandatory compliance with this standard has not yet been established. Level I emissions standards for
light-duty diesel vehicles, also based on ECE R83, are scheduled to become mandatory in January 1996.
These standards, for the first time, establish limits on black smoke and particulate emissions from light-
duty diesel vehicles. This is an extremely significant step, as smoke and PM emissions from these
vehicles are presently very high, and are considered to be significant contributors to the high ambient
PM1O levels in Bangkok. It is intended that stricter Level 2 standards based on ECE R83-01 will become
mandator) in the future, but timinlg for these remains to be determined by the Cabinet. A consultant
study of diesel emissions standards is presently under way, with funding provided under the Japanese
Grant. The results of this study are expected to affect the timing and levels of future diesel emissions
standards.
Monitorable indicators:
Adoption of emission regulations as scheduled
Sales of vehicles meeting new emissions standards.
24.   Motorcycles - Level I limits on motorcycle emissions of CO and HC + NOx are already in effect,
and data from manufacturers indicate that these have resulted in nearly a 50% fall in emnissions of these
pollutants by new motorcycles. Level 2 limits, to take effect next year, will result in further incremental
improvement. Agreement has recently been reached between the Ministry of Science, Technology, and
the Environment (MOSTE) and the Ministry of Industry (MOI) on Level 3 standards to be phased in
between t 997 and 1999. These new standards will likely require two-stroke motorcycles to use catalytic
converters to control HC emissions.
25.   A consultant study of motorcycle emission standards for Thailand was completed in February,
1994. This study identified particulate emissions (in the form of white smoke) from two-stroke
motorcycles as a significant environmental concern which has not been addressed by motorcycle emission
standards to date. Agreement in principle has been reached with the motorcycle industry to limit white
smoke emissions to 30 % opacity or less in conjunction with the Level 3 emissions standards. Additional
research will also be carried out to define a basis for setting Level 4 standards, which would include
further limits on emissions of particulate matter. This research will include actual PM measurements on
Thai motorcycles.
Monitorable indicators:
Adoption of emission regulations as scheduled.
Sales of vehicles meeting new emissions standards.
26.   Heavy-duty trucks and buses - Contemplated heavy-duty engine emissions standards for Thailand
are based on the steady-state ECE 13-mode procedure. This test is much less expensive than the
alternative U.S. heavy-duty transient cycle, but may be less effective in controlling emissions under real-
world conditions of transient operation. Level 1 emissions standards, based on ECE regulation R49-01,
went into effect in January, 1995, and Level 2 standards (equal to the EEC "Euro 1" standard level) are
scheduled for July, 1996. The consultant study of diesel emissions standards referred to above also
addresses heavy-duty engines. The results of this study may affect the level and timing of future
emissions standards for these engines.
Monitorable indicators:
Adoption of emission regulations as scheduled.



-54-                              Annex 2
Page 9 of 17
Sales of vehicles meeting new emissions standards.
27.   Evaporative and refueling emissions - Emissions of gasoline vapor from the fuel distribution and
marketing system, and by evaporation from vehicle fuel systems, are presently uncontrolled. NEPO a
is financing a consultant study to define evaporative control requirements, costs, and benefits the results
of which will be implemented during the Action Plan period.
Monitorable indicators:
Progress of consultant study (underway)
Other indicators to be defined based on study results
28.   Testing and enforcement - Responsibility for enforcing compliance with new-vehicle emission
standards lies with TISI. A set of vehicle emissions test cells for this purpose is under construction at
TISI's Industrial Standards Laboratory, and is expected to be operational by the end of 1994. Presently,
vehicle emissions standards, as in Europe, require compliance only at the time the vehicle is new, and
include a combination of prototype certification and testing of samples from actual production. It is
anticipated that future emission regulations may require, as in the U.S., that vehicles continue to meet
emissions standards over their useful lives when properly maintained. Such regulations would require
an expansion of the enforcement program to include in-use emissions surveillance.
Monitorable indicators:
Number and types of vehicles tested, and number failing to meet standards
Action taken against vehicles failing.
CONTROLLING IN-USE VEHICLE EMISSIONS AND NOISE
29.   Measures to reduce emissions from vehicles already in use are an important complement to new-
vehicle emission standards. Such measures offer virtually the only hope for significant improvements in
air pollution in the near term, and are also needed in the long term to ensure that the potential emissions
benefits of new-vehicle emission standards are not lost through poor maintenance, tampering with, or
removal of emission controls. Commercial vehicles are presently subject to periodic emission checks as
part of their licensing process. Additional measures have been initiated to control in-use emissions
including the definition of emissions standards and test procedure, establishment of a demonstration
inspection center, a program for on-road enforcement of vehicle emissions and noise limits, and a pilot
periodic inspection program for private vehicles in the Bangkok region.
30.   In-use standards and test procedures - A consultant study to recommend suitable emissions test
procedures and standards for in-use vehicles was carried out in 1993, with funding from the Japanese
Environmental Grant. This study developed test procedures suitable for use in roadside checks, as well
as in periodic vehicle inspections. The test procedures developed included checks for excessive white
smoke emissions from two-stroke motorcycles and black smoke emissions from diesel vehicles, as well
as HC and CO emissions. These tests were then applied to a sample of vehicles to characterize the
present distribution of emission levels in use. Based on these distributions, the consultants recommended
emission standards applicable to each vehicle class. These standards and test procedures are now being
considered by interagency committee responsible for coordinating vehicle inspections, and it is anticipated
that final test procedures and standards will soon be presented to the National Environment Board.
Monitorable indicators:
Action by the National Environment Board adopting revised test procedures and standards.



-55-                                Annex 2
Page 10 of 17
31.   Demonstration insDection center - Development of a demonstration inspection center (DIC) in the
Bangkok area for vehicle emissions and safety was included in the Fourth Highway Sector Project. The
center was intended to fulfill a number of purposes, including inspection of government vehicles, training
of inspectors for the contemplated private I/M program, preparation of undercover vehicles for quality-
control checks on the private I/M program, and serving as a referee facility to resolve disputes between
vehicle owners and the private inspectors. The center was intended to be used to "try out" and
demonstrate new I/M methods. Specifications for ICB of equipment for the center were prepared in 1993
by consultants funded under the ongoing Japanese Grant. These consultants also worked with LTD's staff
architect to develop the building design. Actual construction is planned to be undertaken in 1996, after
a suitable site is identified and approved.
Monitorable indicators:
Decision on construction of DICs
Progress toward contracting for construction and ICB of equipment
Operation of DICs
32.   Inspection of commercial vehicles - Commercial vehicles such as trucks, buses, and taxis are
subject to emission checks by LTD, as part of the annual inspection required for licensing. These checks
are presently not very effective due to shortages of equipment and inadequate inspector training and
supervision. For example, the rate at which heavy-duty diesel vehicles failed for excessive smoke in
LTD's inspections was about 2%, compared to a failure rate of more than 50% in checks of vehicle
randomly stopped on the road. Some of this shortfall is due to equipment shortages - if an inspection
station doesn't have a working smokemeter or emissions analyzer, the vehicles must be passed. Other
problems occur due to the use of incorrect testing procedures, which sometimes allow vehicles to pass
that should have failed. Financing for additional testing equipment is being provided under the Fourth
Highway Sector Project. The current Action Plan will also provide financing for a senior technical policy
advisor to assist LTD in improving its execution and oversight of the vehicle inspection process.
Monitorable indicators:
Number of vehicle inspected
Failure rates for emissions by vehicle type, age, etc.
33.   Inspection of Government Vehicles - Government vehicles are subject to annual emission checks.
Responsibility for these checks is split between several government agencies. Military vehicles are
checked by the armed services themselves, and vehicles of the Ministry of Interior are checked by the
Police Department. Vehicles operated by the Ministry of Transport and Communications are checked
by LTD. DPC is responsible for checking all other Government vehicles. Comprehensive statistics on
failure and repair rates for these checks are not available.
Monitorable indicators:
Number of vehicles inspected
Failure rates by vehicle type, age, etc.
34.   Pilot periodic I/M program for Bangkok - The Land Transport Department has launched a pilot
program for periodic inspection and maintenance of private light-duty vehicles and motorcycles for both
emissions and safety standards. The pilot covers annual inspections carried out at specially-licensed
private garages. The program is to be phased in, with initial inspections limited to motorcycles more than
seven years old and private cars more than ten years old. The program started July 1, 1994, and will
be evaluated after three years of operation. Based on the results of this evaluation, plans are to be



-56-                      ~~~~~~~Annex 2
-56-                               Page 11 of 17
dcveloped for a nationwide I/M program. Financing for consultants to assist in the evaluation and in
planning the national program would be provided under the current Action Plan.
35.   To date, some 178 inspection facilities had purchased the necessary equipment and received
approval to carry out inspections for the pilot program. Another 12 facilities had received conditional
approval, contingent upon acquisition of the necessary inspection equipment. Consultants funded by a
Japanese Grant provided technical assistance to LTD in establishing inspection, licensing, and QA/QC
procedures and in developing the administrative structure needed to oversee the inspection program.
Through September 1995 nearly 240,000 cars and 65,000 motorcycles have been inspected in the license
stations with the reported failure rate (requiring repair) being approximately 10%.
Monitorable indicators:
Number of inspection centers in operation
Numnber and type of vehicles inspected
Emission failure rates by type of vehicle
Results of QA/QC program, especially undercover vehicle operations
Number of disciplinary/enforcement actions initiated against fraudulent or malperforming
inspection centers, and the outcomes of these actions.
36.   On-road enforcement - On-road emissions enforcement serves as an important complement to
periodic inspection and maintenance programs. On-road enforcement of smoke regulations can be
especially effective, as screening for likely violators can easily be performed by eye. During 1995 DPC
has also initiated similar screening for gaseous emissions through remote sensing systems. By detecting
and citing the worst-offending vehicles on the road, these programs encourage vehicle owners to maintain
their vehicles properly, and help to guard against evasion of the periodic I/M  program.  Three
organizations presently exercise responsibility for on-road enforcement of vehicle emissions standards.
There are the Police, the Land Transport Department, and the Department of Pollution Control. The
authorizing legislation is different in each case, resulting in inconsistencies between the three agencies.
An interagency working group has been set up to coordinate enforcement activity, with the goal of
fielding combined teams of Police, DPC, and LTD personnel to carry out emissions checks and
enforcement. Equipment for on-road inspection teams, as well as technical assistance in developing and
implementing the on-road enforcement policy are included in the current Action Plan.
Monitorable Indicators
Average daily number of vehide inspection teams in operation
Number of vehicles inspected and number failing inspection
Number of vehicles appearing at inspection centers to dear violations; number not so
appearing within the required time
Average vehicle emission levels in use.
37.   Vehicle emissions inspection data network - To help ensure proper enforcement and prevent
evasion of the vehicle I/M and on-road emissions programs, it is planned to establish a data network for
vehicle emissions inspection and compliance data. Initially, this network will support the on-road
enforcement program - making it possible to ensure that vehicles cited by this program actually carry out
the required repairs. Data on whether a given vehicle had complied would be available on-line to vehicle
registration authorities, traffic police, and the vehicle inspection teams. Eventually, this network will be
expanded to include the results of periodic vehicle inspections as well. This will help to guard against
fraudulent vehicle inspection certificates, and to target vehicle inspection stations showing that show
unusual pass/fail rates for further investigation. Financing for hardware and software to support this
network would be provided under the current Action Plan.



.57-                               Annex 2
Page 12 of 17
Monitorable Indicators
Progress toward implementation of the network (a) for on-road enforcement and (b) for
periodic I/M
Effectiveness in denying vehicle registration to violators
Number of high-emitting vehicles entered into the data base, number cleared by re-
inspection, and number not so cleared within 30 days.
Actions taken against vehicles not clearing in 30 days.
38.   Mechanic training and certification - Effective enforcement of in-use vehicle emission standards
will create demand for emissions-related repairs. To assist the public in choosing qualified repair
technicians, LTD is in the process of establishing a mechanic training and certification process. Technical
assistance for developing the training curriculum was provided by consultants funded by the ongoing a
Japanese Grant.
Monitoring Indicators
Number of mechanics trained and certified
PUBLIC INFORMATION
39.   A significant part of the air pollution problem in Bangkok is due to poor maintenance and/or
inappropriate vehicle operating practices, such as tampering with the maximum fuel setting on diesel fuel
injection pumps, using the wrong type of oil, or mixing more than the necessary amount of lubricating
oil with the fuel in two-stroke motorcycles. The vehicle I/M and especially the on-road enforcement
programs have substantial potential to reduce these unnecessary emissions. In order for these programs
to have their greatest effect, they will need to be complemented by a public information campaign
explaining the effect of air pollution on health, the role of vehicles in creating pollution, and specifically
addressing how vehicle owners and operators can minimize pollution from their vehicles. This campaign
will address such issues as using the proper quality and the recommended amounts of oil in two-stroke
engines, causes and solutions to diesel smoke problems, and the need to assure proper adjustment of the
air-fuel ratio in gasoline vehicles.
Monitoring Indicators:
Progress of public infonnation campaign
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
40.   Measures are presently being undertaken to improve traffic management and control in Bangkok.
These measures include the recent assignment of additional police officers to traffic duty, and the
implementation of Phase I of an area traffic control (ATC) scheme for Bangkok. Phase I includes 150
of the most congested intersections in Bangkok. Phase II will include additional intersections, and will
be implemented during 1996 to 1998. At the same time, the UNDP is funding implementation of a
network for closed-circuit TV monitoring of critical intersections for the Police Department.
Coordination between the BMA and the Police Department remains a critical problem in overall traffic
control - at present, the Police tend to override the automatic signal system, thus defeating its purpose.
ADB is also supporting the development of a comprehensive traffic management program for the Bangkok
area, being prepared by OCMRT with the assistant of professional consultant and public consultation
processes.



-58-                               Annex 2
Page 13 of 17
MASS TRANSIT
41.   A number of mass transit schemes have been proposed for Bangkok. Three have been approved,
and work has begun on some of these. The main mass transit projects now on the boards are the
Hopewell scheme (multi-level, elevated highways with electric train tracks between the two directions on
the lower level, the "skytrain" scheme, the Tanayong electric train proposal, and a similar proposal by
the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration. The recent decision by the Thai Cabinet to require all mass
transit schemes to use underground, rather than elevated rights-of-way in the central Bangkok area has
introduced significant uncertainty regarding the economic feasibility and timing of each of these
proposals. There is, in any event, little possibility that any of these proposals would actually reduce
traffic levels and air pollution in Bangkok. Suppressed travel demand is already significant, and would
be much greater by the time any of these projects could become operational. Thus, any traffic carried
by the mass transit system is likely to be incremental to, rather than a replacement for, automotive
traffic.



THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ACTION PLANS
US$ million                    %
Projects                                                                       Agency       Loan       Govt      PHRD        Total      Loan    Hemarks
Action Plan to Reduce Vehicle Emissions and Noise Pollution
TA For Operation Support and Policy Implementation
1 TA for DPC policy and implementation support, supervision and updating of DPC             1.00                             1.00      100%  TOR under preparation
Action Plan
ig042  Senjo -echnic~l poic advi sor rip  LTK;.D.: :.  .l;it                                           0.75igg -$t;0-00:;:-.i:  ..-.  ... .  ... .  T...A. .ne. p. reara ti. on .. ......
.                      L~~~~~~~~~~~~T.D                                                            .. .........            . ..
Ambient Air/Noise Data Collection
3 Submission of Revised Interim Ambient Air Quality Standards to NEB by      DPC,                                                             No budget required. Based on report by
7/94                                                                      NEB                                                              Cons. (JGF 1).
f o r  O P t.               ..        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . .                                                   .. .. . .. ..... .. .
5 Reinforcement of computer networking system (hardware & softwarel to    DPC                -0.16                 -0.16                 0%  To be confirmed                              '.
share data on major ambient air pollutants.
P. dd             tAo a                                                                                                  .    ..palh'tit*i. Dffl    WI StA   ........os ....acdyJ    IO.mk1$
7 Adapt USEPA Mobile 4 model to become 'Mobile Thai" to estimate mobile   DCUSAID assistance
source emissions
-.: a   pW    - tb~Ir                   pori*nr g~tfl eoe ioBM                                                                                 SU   fla
9 Annual vehicle emissions audit; support of work performed by               DPC             -         0.10        -0.10                 0%  TOR under preparation
Chulalongkom University
Ambient Air/Vehicle Emissions Health-Related Study
:                     -.Z .                        Myla1. -                                                                  ($ ..... .    ... .tU -r:.
Vahicle Emissions Standards/Monitoring
11  Submission of new vehicle standards (to ECE Level 1111 by mid-i1994       DPC,                                                             No budget required.
NEB
t        n.    .   ........ ..............  .  .....  .  ......r ...    ..a...     .... . 
-9V
%~~~~~~~~~~~~-



US$ mrillion                     %
Projects                                                                             Agency        Loan        Govt       PHRD        Total       Loan    Remarks
Supoort to the fun         n
13  Technical assistance to research program & operating the lab facility           DPC, LTD                    0.40                   0.40          0%   TOR under preparation
:g. . ...                                                                                                                                            ::*:-:*:::',:-...'''    "... . ''' .....
15  Equipment (spare parts)                                                         DPC, LTD                    0.36                   0.36          0%
Development of vehicle emission standards
1* ~~vaposat)y .. .#$uio S. O .                                                                             .00 ....T....wid.e. .ra .........
,'$.,:....,e',,,a,-t      W .,.i,":'.S   ::                                                                    .....    ..   ..  ..... :''  ........:.'::'   : ': '
17  Particulates source study & control strategy (diesel & motorcycles)             DPC                                     0.30       0.30          0%   Japan Grant 2 ($0.3 mil)
'f-  '.' ' '  ' 1    .    '   's   "   ,m,   i,f  '-'   Sr    [ i,  ,::.,   ;''.... :::   '':''::::  .   '  tf   ', :'   .. :...... '...........
IS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                         .........it  soe n  ...~P4  .                                 .  A.t adqsu$d
19  Controls on other Pollutants (Level IV Standards)                               DPC,                                                                            for 1997
NEB          -                       --Targeted fr19
On Road Enforcement Program
n ' ' '      ,          ,       ' ' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ...,,,. ...  ..
t' -      5       "~ ~~~              ~ ~ ~~..... ."...                                           ..... ,' ''' >            ..
23  EstablishBangkof-artesaepilot onfee piate i enspectiponfclityias  protoldrvhcle   LT                                                                   Supre   yJF1(02ml
by~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~4 mid-1994t tntuvwde evr
21  Development of interagency on-road enforcement protocol - equipment             LTD, DPC                    0.90                    0.90         0%   Sufficient for equipping 1a5
Police                                                                interdepartmental teams
Vehicleaio Inspections andMantenac DIIIM
~ io-~~vehIcIa~I~ns aLTD...                                                                                                                                 site .u,,.- .....-.  - -  -.......m......l.l
29 Equipment ..... LTD .........r..r........
Demo 'nstrations Inspec ion Centerae (ID
~~#  Vorwtrwit(on                                                            LTD                              .    .-.-0I%. ......... .O. ..... 4    wy  A
kt   mi                                                                                                                                ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(4  n)n
25 TEcvaluto  of he angkkaeceltisetonfclte                                         LTD                                                                    Link-040 10 teds to ritem 28 une 31lb  0     C>
y  ... .. .....   ...     .. ..                                                                          .     . .. .. . ..~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~
or ars.          ..... . ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
twork,  a,                                                                                                                            . . ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



_______          USS million                     %
Projects                                                                            Agency       Loan        Govt       PHRD        Total       Loan    Remarks
Petroleum Products Specification/Monitoring
31  90%  of all motor vehicle fuel to be unleaded by 8/94                          NEPO                                                                 No government budget required
- S S-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                      "r.    a"."'  .     ...  .       --. ..... ..     -.             -........
33  Study of further revisions to all fuels specifications                         NEPO,                                                                Government budget.
s 3--<t s W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .. . .. .          . .. .. ... . . . . ... . .. ..   .,.
35  Issue improved lubricating oil standards                                       MOC.                                                                 Japanese standards under consideration
TISI
Alternative fuel vehicle program
.t TA t support development of r...      pr          a    t -.r gas                                               .... ..g.s. -  .. .  .. ....o...
Public Information
37  Public information campaign on air quality and air pollutants                 MODP6C060                                                        0
g9gggggtg sn g ..M........ ....0..                                        -         0  .0
Traffic Management
39  Design of Phase I of ATC system  in larger Bangkok area                        BMA                                                                  BMA's own budget
ATC with police function of traffic control (international study tours)        P     ,                     0.25                   0.625        0%   To be agreed
BMAH
Other Projecs
,42     pnwil  'or  -easr       t of  'r and  'isa po'ltt of       '~ "oat    ', T,  be ,.,,o,on,,,,,,,,,,ir,,m, ,,,,, .,,,d.. ......
43  Water transport master plan for Bangkok                                        MOTC aresTOR under preparation
Subtotal                 1.40        8.89        1.00      11.29        12%6
Action  Plan to Improve Safety in Transportation
ss-s wit poic  function,,, of-. trafi conro (itenaioas tud  tus)                Polic,          -0.25                   . s s     0s-  '''  ss-  .25 . s ' %  To be agreeds' 'Ss'S' 's.t.s............ 
0O  > 
..i ..........  ....~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-



US$ million
Projects                                                                 Agency      Loan      Govt      PHRD       Total     Loan    Remarks
Behavior Training and Education
45 Establishment of traffic safety discipline in school curricula        MOE                    0.60                 0.60       0%  Continuing program
g   -     c *mdi      s                   M 6 I0 h  :o :~ ::.-C...........m.......  ...g                           . ..:
Law Enforcement and Traffic Surveillance
47 Training of LTD officers in enforcement                               LTD                     0.04                0.04       0%  Seminars
40 TsainicQ  f isaffic aoidant raaeu t.a H.. l........                                                                                       ....2:: .
--t -'5' ..... '- t t-. , y -z M}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... ......
49 Rescue equipment for highway police rescue team                     .Pol c                    0.48                0.48        0%  7 units (1 per highway districtl:
Police                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~compliment to 4th Hwy. Loan
Roads and Environment
0    nt     s ort t:he Trfi  n rng*neern n4.vision, bGH       .    :        :     - :-                            .:so                           a .n. -.::a
51 Automatic traffic counters                                            DOH                    0.34                 0.34       0%  85 units
52 Pub .lc       - irifonnation tanipeign on drifilW  d dr'ivg H. .  . 
53 Public information of road safety and regulations                     NSC,
DOH                     0.20                0.20        0%  Ongoing program
MOTC                                                                                                 O
64 £valQatXgt:4of blok  otakn::t uiiti onpr    t:.. -:-;                                                            0.0- .
55 Hazardous & toxic waste transport study                               MOI,                                                        Includes road rail and producing
Police,                 0.40                0.40        0% industries
LTD
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plc                                                            0.60 -t:x   '   i a
53~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. .......
LT
597 Implementation of short term measures recommended by Road Safety     MOTC                    0.6-                0.0         0%
Master Plan Study                                                              I____
Subtotal              0         5.04                15.04       0%
Action Plan Administration
~OAdlm  Pi    MorleOsiUitJPC4MO                                                                03
59 Short-term courses, seminars, and conferences                         MOC04                                        .5To be identified between Bank end
:-  .                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~MT  -   .5        -        04              MOTC an-nually
60~~~~~~~~~~A3 &iaPlaAdsoOfieIqaif,amai. f#3ttiiMT0.79                                  Gl00
Subtotal              0.79      0.78        .        1.57      50%
ACTION PLAN TOTAL COSTI                2.19[114.7111.00 117.901                    2%
0



- 63 -                                  Annex 3
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Environmental Capacity Strengthening Program for DOH and OEPP
A. Introduction
1.    The Department of Highways (DOH) is the main agency responsible for building and operation
of the national, special, and concessional highways as specified by the Highway Act of 1992. As of
1993, about 54,195 km of the national highways and 193 km of the special highways were built, of which
30% are located in the North, 25% in the Northeast, 27.5% in the Central, and 17.5% in the South.
About 4,345 km of inter-city motorways will be built during the next 20 years (at a construction cost of
about 355 billion baht) and 1,891 km of the main national highways will be widened (at a cost of about
45 billion baht) during the 7th Plan (1992-1996).
2.    The National Environmental Quality Act (NEQA) of 1992 requires that an environmental impact
assessment (EIA) study must be carried out for all special highway projects and the national highways
that go through the protected and/or sensitive areas. The EIA must be reviewed and approved by the EIA
Reviewing Committee through the Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP) of the Ministry
of Science, Technology, and Environment (MOSTE). EIA approval of the National Environment Board
(NEB) is required for the cabinet approval for investment of the project. In 1992, a Cabinet Resolution
ordered that an Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE) is required for widening of the roads and highways
that go through the protected and/or sensitive areas, while an environmental checklist is required for
rehabilitation and maintenance activities. The IEE can be reviewed and approved by OEPP, while the
checklist can be reviewed and approved by the Forestry Department.
3.    DOH has been carrying out the policy to protect the environment and minimize the negative
impacts while increasing efficiency of road transportation. During the detailed design, due consideration
is given to promote road safety, provide adequate drainage, and minimize soil erosion while
implementation of the activities is carried out during the construction stage. When land acquisition is
required, the acquisitionprocess is carried out following the guidelines specified by law. There are cases,
however, where special compensation and/or assistance is provided to those affected people despite the
lack of monetary provision by law. Due to the limited allocation of the government budget and limited
capacity and experience of DOH staff, the effectiveness of these activities is greatly hampered at present.
Given the future needs for road development and environmental protection, it is anticipated that DOH's
capacity to deal with the environmental issues, especially those related to safety, soil erosion, flooding,
and the delay in payment, must be strengthened as soon as possible.
4.    Similarly, OEPP's present capacity is inadequate compared to the need to carry out its tasks. For
the transportation sector, there are at least five major projects under the responsibility of DOH whose
EIAs were approved and effective monitoring for EIA compliance is required. OEPP intends to acquire
consulting services for this monitoring and reporting and at the same time to establish a system that can
effectively respond to the results. It is expected that during the next five years, DOH will prepare EIAs
for new projects, comprised of at least three motorways, two new highways, and 15 new and/or widening
road projects. These projects will require significant effort by OEPP in reviewing and monitoring of the
ETAs. In addition to the DOH projects, OEPP is also expected to review the EIAs and monitor
compliance of the transportation projects under the responsibility of other agencies, including the Public



- 64 -                                   Annex 3
Works Department, the State Expressway and Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand, the Metropolitan
Rapid Transit Authority, the State Railway of Thailand, and the Harbor Department.
5.     During the preparation of the Fifth Highway Sector Project under financial assistance of the
World Bank, a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared. The SEA identifies the sector
environmental issues and mitigation measures to alleviate the negative impacts due to implementation of
the road and highway projects under the responsibility of DOH. As a consequence, an Environmental
Process (EP, Figure 1) and an Environmental Assessment Strengthening Program (EASP) and its
implementation plan (Schedule 1) were established. The main policy and implementation guidelines
which are specified in this annex are intended to facilitate effective implementation of the EP/EASP and
to strengthen commnon understanding among the staff of DOH and other concerned parties.
B. DOH Objective and Strategy
6.    It is recognized that construction and/or widening of roads and highways may involve the
following issues:
a.     displacement of people, houses, and businesses and acquisition of private and/or
government land due to the need to establish the Right-Of-Ways (ROW);
b.     encroachment of the protected/sensitive areas, changes in hydrological and/or drainage
patterns, and negative impacts due to induced development;
c.     negative impacts (air/noise/vibration, erosion, safety, social) during road construction;
and
d.     negative impacts (air/noise/vibration, erosion, safety, social) during operation and
maintenance.
7.     DOH's objective is to protect the environment and to minimize the negative impacts on the
people. To achieve this objective, the main strategies to deal with the above issues are as follows:
a.     build up DOH capacity to facilitate effective administration and management of the
environmental issues;
b.     ensure full integration of the environmental concerns into every stage of the project
development cycle and adequate budget is allocated for the environrnental work;
c.     ensure adequate cooperation and coordination of DOH with OEPP and other concerned
agencies/entities, especially in the areas of preparing, reviewing, monitoring, and
evaluation of EIA/IEE and consultation with the affected groups and the public; and
d.    strengthen technical capacity and experience of DOH staff through training and assistance
of specialists.
C. DOH Programs ---[responsible units]
8.     According to the above strategies, the eight DOH programs identified in the EASP will be carried
out during the next four years (1996-1999) according to the guidelines described in the following
paragraphs.



- 65 -                                  Annex 3
9.    Program 1. Strengthen cooperation and coordination capacity within and outside DOH ---
[DOH]. The main activities include:
a.    establishing an Environmental Unit (EU) responsible for preparation of environmental
studies (ElA, IEE, checklist) and coordination of related activities within and outside
DOH. The unit is now under the Planning Division and comprises five technical staff
(economists, scientists, and technicians). Technical and coordination capacity of this unit
will be strengthened through training, increasing the number of personnel, and acquiring
equipment. Roles and responsibility of this unit include, but are not limited to, the
following:
prepare DOH environmental protection plan and policy and coordinate with other
concerned agencies on the environmnental matters;
prepare terms of reference (TOR) for the environmental studies (EIA, IEE,
checklist) and coordinate the implementation activities, including monitoring the
implementation of the mitigation measures;
coordinate the environmental work to belbeing carried out by concerned
divisions/offices of DOH, including monitoring and evaluation, to ensure full
integration of the environmental concerns into all stages of the project
development cycle;
serve as the secretariat to the DOH Environmental Committee;
b.    building EU capacity to carry out EA studies, screening, monitoring, and evaluation
through preparation of guidelines/manuals, training, and advisory services;
C.    procuring equipment and materials necessary for carrying out the tasks, including
computers and accessories; and
d.    conducting meetings/seminars/workshops.
10.   Program 2. Establish DOH environmental management capacity ---[DOH]. The main
activities include:
a.    Establishing an Environmental Committee (EC) responsible for developing environmental
strategy/plan/priority and oversee its implementation. The EC will be chaired by the
Director General or the Deputy Director General for Engineering and will comprise
director or his representatives of key divisions/offices. The EU will serve as secretariat
to the EC.
b.    Assigning clear roles and responsibilities for protection of the environment to the
concerned divisions/offices to facilitate effective implementation and full integration of
the environmental concerns into all stages of the project development cycle. This is to
ensure that the Environmental Process will be effectively implemented. During each
stage, the following scope of work will be considered:
During Preparation Phase:
*     project identification and planning --identify environmental issues, scope plans
for environmental study, conduct preliminary field survey, early consultation



- 66 -                                   Annex 3
with the affected groups and concerned agencies;
*     feasibility study --prepare TOR, examine alternatives, assess impacts and
possible mitigation measures, estimate the budget required for implementation of
the mitigation measures, conduct economic analysis, prepare reports for the
environmental study (EIA, IEE, checklist) and obtain its approval as required by
laws/ regulations;
*     project budgeting --allocate adequate budget for implementation and monitoring
of the environmental mitigation measures; and
*     detailed design and bidding documents --incorporate the environmental
improvements and mitigation measures into the detailed design and the contract
specifications.
During Construction Phase:
*     monitoring and reporting to ensure compliance with the contract specification
on environmental protection aspect.
Operation and After Project Phase:
*     monitoring and evaluation to ensure adequacy of environmental protection and
cost effectiveness of the activities.
11.   Program 3. Acquire the Environment Technical Specialists (ETSs) ----[EC/EU]. National
and/or international ETSs will be acquired for at least 24 months. This is to assist DOH/EC/EU in
performing their tasks, especially in the areas of preparing EIA; integrating environmental concerns into
DOH procedures (including preparation of guidelines and manuals); development and implementation of
the strategy and workplan to deal with social impacts; and training. It is envisaged that during the initial
stage, long term ETSs (one principal specialist and one social specialist) will be acquired as soon as
possible. Short-term ETSs will be acquired periodically to provide services on specific issues, and their
TORs will be prepared by DOH with the assistance of the long-term ETSs. TOR for the long term ETSs
is shown in Schedule 2.
12.   Program 4. Develop and implement the standard practices/manuals to minimize the impacts
during construction and operation ---[Construction Division, Loan Control Division, EU]. This is to
facilitate effective implementation of the mitigation measures typical for road projects.  These
standards/manuals will be included in the specifications for construction or the contract documents and
will be carried out by DOH and/or the contractors. The activities will include the preparation of
documents, on-the-job training, and pilot studies. While the detailed workplan, including TORs, will be
prepared at a later stage with assistance from the ETSs, it is anticipated that the scope of work will cover
the following:
a.     Developing the standard practices/manuals, including monitoring and reporting formats,
for the mitigation actions to be carried out to minimize the impacts during transportation,
construction, and operation. The recommendations made in the SEA will be considered
in conjunction with the existing DOH practice. This activity will be carried out as part
of the TOR given in Schedule 3 (Task 1).
b.    Implementing the program, including the procurement of advanced technology and
training of staff.



- 67 -                                   Annex 3
13.   Program 5. Develop and use the guidelines/manuals for road planning and designs -
[Location and Design Division, Planning Division, EU]. This is to strengthen DOH's capacity to
minimize the negative impacts on the environment and the people through proper planning and design.
The activities will include the preparation of documents, acquisition of advanced technology, on-the-job
training, and pilot studies. Assistance of the long-term and short-term ETSs will be acquired during the
development and implementation of the activities. While the detailed workplan, including TORs, will
be prepared at a later stage with assistance from the long term ETSs, it is anticipated that the scope of
work will cover the following:
a.     Establishing a database to facilitate effective integration of environmental issues into the
planning stage, including monitoring and evaluation. At present, DOH is implementing
a program to develop a central database and computer system under an ADB loan. It is
anticipated that these concerns will be discussed with the study team to find a proper
ways to include them into the study. If necessary, a pilot program will be developed to
integrate the environmental information of the widening project, and software and
equipment will be acquired under the Fifth Highway Sector Project. ---[Planning div.,
EU]
b.     Preparing  the guidelines/manuals for planning, monitoring, and evaluation  as
recommnended in the SEA. The scope of work is included in the TOR shown in Schedule
3 (Task 2) ---[Planning Division, EU].
c.     Preparing specific guidelines/manuals for roadway design which are "appropriate" (which
meet the needs at acceptable levels and at an affordable cost), with particular attention
to ensuring adequate operation and maintenance for all categories of road development.
These manuals will be used by design engineers at central, regional, and local levels.
Due consideration will be given to minimize the need for land acquisition and to increase
the effectiveness of road safety, slope protection, drainage design, and noise/vibration
control. The TOR for the preparation is included in Schedule 3 (Task 3) ---[Location and
Design Division, EU]
d.     Carrying out on-the-job training abroad for design and planning staff (3 months courses,
3 persons/year, 3 years). For some specific area, advanced technology may be acquired
under the Fifth Highway Sector Project ---[Location and Design Division, EU].
14.   Program 6. Develop and implement a program to deal with social impacts to all affected
groups ---[DOH/EC/EU]. This is to ensure that none of the affected groups would be worse off because
of the project. A strategy to deal with the issues is shown in Schedule 4 and assistance of the long-term
and short-term ETSs to implement the strategy and prepare the workplans will be acquired.
15.   Program 7. Develop and carry out an environmental training program ---[DOH/EC/EU].
This is a long-term program to increase the knowledge and experience of DOH staff in both technical and
managerial aspects. International experience will be acquired periodically. The main activities will
include:  training of trainers; development of training courses and training materials (in Thai);
seminars/workshops; on-the-job training; and study tours. Priority will be given to provide training in
the areas of safety, erosion protection, air and noise reduction, flood protection, and cost/benefits
analysis. Implementation of case studies or pilot projects and close cooperation with MOSTE and other
key agencies will be encouraged. The training strategy and program is shown in Schedule 5.



- 68 -                                          Annex 3
16.    Program  8. Strengthen cooperation and coordination with other agencies, the public, and
NGOs ---[EU]. The main activities will include:
a.      Developing  a common  understanding  with  OEPP  on  the  implementation  of the
Environmental Process.
b.      Establishing a coordination committee between DOH, OEPP, and other key agencies.
c.      Improving consultation through meetings/workshops/seminars and other mechanisms.
D. DOH Expected Outputs and Work Schedule
17.    After 5 years of implementation (1996-99), it is expected that the following outputs will be
generated:
a.      an effective environmental unit with adequate capacity and equipment;
b.      guidelines/manuals for environmental protection of road projects for DOH;
c.      an effective mechanism  to deal with social issues, including a database management
system;
d.      training courses for DOH staff, including training materials, at ERTC/EQPD and DOH
training center;
e.     trained DOH staff and staff of other agencies;
f.      specific and/or pilot studies related to road safety and environmental protection/
promotion.
18.    The work schedule are as follows:
1996          1997          1998           1999
TaskName                             01|02|3|Q4    Q21 Q3 Q4 QI Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4 0
Establish ECand adopt DOHenvironmental
process and policy
Acquire long-term ETSs
Acquire short-term ETSs
Prepare guidelines/manuals/code of practices
Increase capacity to deal with social issues
Prepare and implementtraining
Strengthen coordination and cooperation



- 69 -                                   Annex 3
E. OEPP Policy
19.   Past experience in EA review in Thailand suggested that the effectiveness of the EIA process is
hampered by the following factors:
a.     Limited knowledge and experience of concerned agencies on the environmental issues;
the EIA process; and the need to allocate adequate budget for implementation of the
mitigation measures.  Cooperation and coordination among these agencies are also
inadequate.
b.     Limited capacity of the project proponent to effectively deal with the environmental
issues. This includes inadequate consultation with the affected groups and the public, and
poor quality of the EIA study.
c.     Limited capacity of OEPP in implementing the review process and the lack of monitoring
and enforcement capacity.
20.   It is intended to strengthen the effectiveness of the EIA through the following strategies:
a.    Improve the knowledge and experience of concerned agencies on the environmental
issues; the EIA process; and the need to allocate adequate budget for the implementation
of the mitigation measures. The main activities would include training, meetings,
workshops, seminars, and establishment of a coordinating committee as appropriate.
b.    Improve the enviromnental capacity of the implementing agencies to carry out good
EIA/IEE/checklist and to ensure adequate capacity to address the issues at all stages:
planning and design, construction, and operation/maintenance. The activities would
include training, workshops/seminars, and other institutional building activities. Clear
roles and responsibilities should be assigned to the concerned divisions/offices and, if
possible, an environmental unit established. Preparation of manuals and guidelines
should be encouraged.
c.    Increase the monitoring capacity of OEPP, including post evaluation of the projects.
The activities would include establishment of a strategy and mechanism; procurement of
equipment; and holding of meetings/workshops/seminars.
d.    Increase public consultation and participation, especially with the affected groups.
Preparation of strategy and guidelines, including a mechanism for implementation, such
as workshops/seminars, for each sector would be encouraged.
e.    Improve the quality of the EIA study and preparation of the EIA report. The
activities would include preparing good TOR with adequate details; obtaining agreement
on the scope of the TOR; allocation of adequate budget for the study; and training,
workshops, and seminars.
f.    Improve the efficiency and quality of the EIA review. The activities would include
training/seminars/workshops; preparing guidelines or manuals for the minimum
mitigation measures; preparing a strategy and/or mechanism to engage the private sector
and the public/NGOs in monitoring and evaluation; obtaining agreement on the review
process for different types of projects; scope of work for checklist, IEE and TORs for
EIA; and the use of manuals and guidelines.



- 70 -                                   Annex 3
g.    Increase participation of the private sector, the public, and local communities,
especially in the area of monitoring and enforcement.  This is to deal with the
government policy to limit an increase in the number of the government officials.
21.   At present, OEPP is carrying out several studies (financed by CIDA, DANCBD and the ADB)
to improve the effectiveness of the EIA process, including development of general guidelines and manuals
for post monitoring and auditing of the ElAs. Despite these efforts, the effectiveness of the EIA cannot
be improved, since actual monitoring and enforcement activities are still lacking. To build OEPP's
capacity to carry out the monitoring and enforcement activities of the EIA process, especially for the
transportation projects, procurement of equipment, preparation of guidelines/manuals, and training are
the key requirements. OEPP is expected to acquire some EA monitoring equipment under the Action
Plan to reduce the vehicle emissions and noise pollution under the Fourth Highway Sector Project, and
a proposal was submitted to MOTC/APCU. The activities to be carried out under the Fifth Highway
Sector Project are outlined in the Section F.
F. OEPP Program Objective and Scope of Work
22.   The main objective of this program is to strengthen OEPP's capacity to carry out the EIA
process, including monitoring and enforcement, for the transportation sector with due consideration given
to the projects under the responsibility of DOH. The activities will be carried out by consultants under
supervision of OEPP from 1996-1999, and the terms of references and detailed workplan will be prepared
at a later stage. The main tasks/activities are described in the following paragraphs.



- 71 -                                   Annex 3
23.    Task 1. Building up monitoring capacity.
Activity 1. Procuring equipment. During each phase, the following equipment will be
procured:
Unit Price (baht)
(a) Dust measurement. 1,170,000 baht.
- 1 set of high volume sampler for suspended            500,000
particulate matter (not more than 100 micron)
- 1 set of automatic sampler for suspended solids       250,000
(Beta-Ray, not more than 10 micron)
- 1 set of wind speed/direction                         300,000
- 1 set of weighing balance                              70,000
- 1 set of dryer for filter paper                        50,000
(b) Noise measurement. 1,650,000 baht.
- 1 set of outdoor microphone                           300,000
- 1 set of noise analyzer                               400,000
- 1 set of data logger                                  250,000
- 1 set of recorder and printer                         400,000
- 1 set of frequency analyzer                           300,000
(c) Vibration measurement. 2,050,000 baht.
- I set of vibration analyzer                           300,000
- 1 set of frequency analyzer                           300,000
- I van designed for monitoring work                    800,000
- 1 set of recorder                                     300,000
- 1 set of data logger                                  250,000
- 1 set of printer                                      100,000
(d) Suspended solids and turbidity measurements. 200,000 baht
- I set of SS measurement                               100,000
- 1 set of turbidity meter                              100,000
(e) Data processing 250,000 baht
- 1 set of microcomputer and accessory.                 250,000
Total                   5,320,000 baht or $212.800



- 72 -                                   Annex 3
Activity 2. Establishing a monitoring and enforcement system. This includes the preparation
of specific guidelines and/or regulations to allow the private sector, the public, NGOs, and the
local community to carry out monitoring activities and post evaluation. Adequacy of the legal
and institutional frameworks will be assessed and recommendations will be made for improvement
with due emphasis given to the urban highways and the rural roads. The system will be
established and a few case studies will be carried out to demonstrate the effectiveness of the
system.
24.   Task 2. EIA process strengthening. This is to increase the effectiveness of the EIA study and
review and to strengthen common understanding amnong concerned parties. The activities include the
strengthening of assessment methodologies, development of the minimum measures for specific types of
projects, consultation with the various groups, workshops/seminars, case studies, and short-term
assistance of national and/or international experts in some specific areas.
25.   Task 3. OEPP staff training. A training program for OEPP staff in developed countries would
be prepared in more detail. It is anticipated that the OEPP training program would focus on the EIA
training courses for transportation sector.



- 73 -                                Annex 3
Schedule 1
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Recommended Environmental Assessment Strengthening Program (EASP), 1996-1999
No.                          Action                          Budget (Million US$)
Bank ADB /1 RTG
I     Strengthening the Environmental Unit (EU), including        0.5    1.0
training and development and implementation of
guidelines/manuals for planning and screening of EIA.
2     DOH assigns clear roles and responsibilities to the          -     -
divisions/offices and establishes an Environmental
Committee (EC) responsible for setting policy and directing
the implementation of the environmental activities.
3     DOH acquires technical assistance through national and/or  0.4   -  -
international specialists (Environment Technical Specialists,
ETSs) for at least 24 months.
4     DOH develops and implements the standard practices      -   0.5     -
and/or manuals to minimize the impacts during construction
and operation, including training.
5     DOH develops and uses the guidelines/manuals for road   0.5   -     -
planning and designs, including training.
6     DOH develops and implements a program to deal with      0.6   -     -
social impacts to all affected groups to ensure that none of
them would be worse off because of the project.
7     DOH develops and carries out an environmental training  -   0.0
program to increase knowledge and experience of DOH
staff.
8     DOH strengthens cooperation and coordination with other  -   -
agencies, the public, and NGOs.
9     OEPP establishes and implements a program to strengthen  0.5
its capacity and efficiency in reviewing and monitoring of
the EIA process, with a focus on the transportation
subsector.
TOTAL                                                  2.0  2.0   1.0
I/ Details will be finalized under ADB technical assistance.



- 74 -                               Annex 3
Schedule 2
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference (TOR)
for
The Environmental Technical Specialists (ETS)
A. Background and Justification
1.    The Department of Highways (DOH) is the main agency responsible for building and operation
of the national, special, and concessional highways as specified by the Highway Act of 1992. As of
1993, about 54,195 km of the national highways and 193 km of the special highways were constructed.
About 4,345 km of inter-city motorways will be built during the next 20 years and 1,891 km of the main
national highways will be widened during the 7th Plan (1992-96). The total construction cost is about
400 million baht. The environmental issues, including land acquisition and resettlement, are the key
issues to be addressed during the planning and implementation of these development programs.
2.    During the preparation of the Fifth Highway Sector Project with financial assistance from the
World Bank, a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared. The SEA identifies the sector
environmental issues and mitigation measures to alleviate the negative impacts due to implementation of
the road and highway projects under the responsibility of DOH. An Environmental Process for DOH
and an Environmental Assessment Strengthening Program (EASP) were developed. Given the level of
environmental work to be carried out by DOH during the next five years and the limited environmental
capacity at present, the EASP identified the need to acquire technical assistance of national and/or
international specialists (Environmental Technical Specialists, ETSs) at least during the first two years.
3.    It is envisaged that long-term ETSs (one principal specialist and one social specialist) will be
acquired to assist DOH, the Environmental Committee (EC), and the Environmental Unit (EU) to prepare
the project ElAs and to implement the Environmental Process and EASP. Short-term ETSs may be
required periodically to provide services on specific issues, and their TORs will be prepared at a later
stage. This TOR is applied only to the long-term ETSs.
B. Scope of Work
4.    The Principal ETS. This is the key ETS responsible for providing assistance to DOH/EC/EU
in all environmental aspects, especially in the areas of preparing ElAs; integrating environmental concerns
into DOH's procedures (including preparation of guidelines and manuals); training; guiding the
development and implementation of activities to deal with social issues; and the implementation of the
Environmental Process and the EASP. The main activities will include, but not be limited to, the
following:
a.    Preparing detailed workplans and programs to implement the Environmental Process and
the EASP;
b.    Identifying the specific issues for technical assistance through short-term ETSs and
preparing the TORs;



- 75 -                                 Annex 3
Schedule 2
c.     Assisting in the development and implementation of the detailed standard procedures and
the manuals of practice and the integration of the environmental concerns into every stage
of planning and implementation of the road and highway projects. This includes those
required for the projects to be invested in by the private sector;
d.     Assisting in the development and implementation of the program to deal with social
issues to ensure that none of the affected groups would not be worst off because of the
project;
e.     Assisting in the development and implementation of the program to deal with the
environmental issues due to the implementation of the Motorways Project, including the
preparation of EIAs, research and development, and training of staff.
f.     Preparing detailed workplan and program to implement the DOH training program and
assist in the implementation; and
g.     Carrying out other tasks as assigned by DOH/EC/EU.
5.     The social specialist. This ETS will assist DOH/EC/EU and the principal ETS in dealing with
the social and land acquisition issues, especially for the motorways project. According to the DOH policy
and strategy, public consultation and strengthening of DOH's capacity to facilitate effective
implementation of the land acquisition process are the first two priorities. The main activities include,
but are not limited to, the following:
a.     Studying laws, regulations, policy/guidelines, and in-country experiences to deal with
social issues and resettlement in Thailand and preparing detailed workplans and programs
to implement the DOH policy and a strategy to deal with these issues. Priority will be
given to the implementation of the Widening and Motorways Programs with due
consideration given to ensure compliance with the policy/guidelines established by the
key international financing institutions (the World Bank, ADB, OECF).
b.     Assisting in the implementation of the workplans and programs, including monitoring and
evaluation. Priority will be given to the following areas: consultation and participation
(including workshops/seminars/meetings); the development of an effective database
management system for land acquisition; preparation of standard procedures and/or
manuals of practice. This is to ensure that adequate consideration is given to deal with
social issues during the planning stage of DOH projects and that close consultation with
other key agencies, the public and local communities, and the affected groups are carried
out as appropriate.
c.     Assisting in the preparation of ElAs/IEEs/checklists, especially in the areas related to
social issues, of the projects.
d.     Carrying out other tasks as assigned by DOH/EC/EU.



- 76 -                                Annex 3
Schedule 2
C.    Qualifications
6.    Principal ETS:
a.    Willing to work hard towards DOH's objective to protect the environment and minimize
the negative impacts to people due to road and highway projects;
b.    Master or Ph.D degree in engineering or other related professional with some engineering
background;
c.    not less than 10 years experience on the EIA process and other environmental issues;
d.    extensive environmental experience in Thailand;
e.    adequate knowledge on environmental issues relating to road and highway projects at
national and international levels, including land acquisition, compensation, and
resettlement, are preferable; and
f.    good English writing and speaking skills.
7.    Social ETS:
a.    Willing to work hard towards DOH's objective to protect the environment and minimize
the social impacts due to road and highway projects;
b.    Master or Ph.D degree in social science, laws, or other related professional with
extensive experience of the Thai legal system and social problems;
c.    not less than eight (8) years experience on the EIA process and social impacts;
d.    extensive environmental experience in Thailand;
e.    adequate knowledge and experience of social impacts, land acquisition and
compensation, and resettlement issues relating to road and highway projects at
national and international levels are preferable;
f.    good English writing and speaking skills; and
g.    knowledge of database management for land acquisition is preferable.



-77-                                  Annex 3
Schedule 3
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference (TOR)
for Consultative Services on
Development of Guidelines/Manuals
To Mitigate the Nezative Impacts due to Road/Highway Projects
A. Background and Justification
1.    The Department of Highways (DOH) is the main agency responsible for building and operation
of the national, special, and concessional highways as specified by the Highway Act of 1992. As of
1993, about 54,195 km of the national highways and 193 km of the special highways were constructed.
About 4,345 km of inter-city motorways will be built during the next 20 years and 1,891 km of the main
national highways will be widened during the 7th Plan (1992-96). A total construction cost is about 400
million baht. The environmental issues including land acquisition and resettlement are the key issues to
be addressed during the planning and implementation of these development programs.
2.    During the preparation of the Fifth Highway Sector Project with financial assistance from the
World Bank, a Sector Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared. The SEA identified the sector
environmental issues and mitigation measures to alleviate the negative impacts due to implementation of
the road and highway projects under the responsibility of DOH. As a consequence, a process to integrate
environmental concerns and a program to strengthen DOH's capacity to deal with the environmental
issues (called the Environmental Assessment Strengthening Program, EASP) were developed. This
activity is part of the implementation of the Programs 4 and 5 of EASP and the consultants are expected
to work closely with the key divisions/offices (Planning Division, EU, Construction Division, Loan
Control Division, Location and Design Division). It is anticipated that the guidelines/manuals (general
and/or specific) would be appropriate and meet the needs at acceptable levels and at an affordable cost
given due attention to ensuring adequate operation and maintenance.
B. Scope of Work
3.    A more detailed TOR will be prepared at a later stage. At present, it is anticipated that the
consultants shall study the recommendations made in the SEA and the existing practice of DOH and carry
out, but not be limited to, the tasks/activities identified in the following paragraphs.
4.    Task 1. Prepare standard practices/manuals to minimize the impacts during construction
and operation. Scope of this task should include:
a.    Developing a minimum standards for construction worker camp, including layout,
housing provision, provision of sanitary facilities, and control of insect and communal
diseases, etc. If the camps are large and located in or near community areas, a
coordination procedure with local community and concerned agencies to minimize
potential social impacts and conflicts should be considered.



- 78 -                                   Annex 3
Schedule 3
b.     Preparing detailed procedures for effective control of pollution during transportation
and construction, including monitoring and reporting formats. The mitigation measures
and the monitoring programs recommended in the SEA should be considered, including:
*      effective control during transportation (for air, noise, traffic congestion).
*      effective control at construction site: water application, vehicle maintenance and
clean up, air pollution control devices, traffic management (speed limit, limit the
use of horns, protection of dust, install temporary noise barrier, limit
construction hours, equip mufflers or other sound attenuation devices on heavy
equipment, equip vibration attenuation in sensitive zones.
*      in the sensitive areas, prepare measures to minimize water pollution from runoff
through effective soil management, slope protection, and installation of temporary
storage and/or drainage. Other measures should be considered as appropriate to
minimize the impacts on historic/archaeological sites; impaired views, aesthetics;
induced development; relocation/resettlement; and community life and economic
activities.
*;     prepare monitoring program and reporting formats for dust and other emissions;
noise; soil excavation and replanting; soil erosion; surface and ground water;
surface runoff management: flora/fauna; access to community and private
property; comrnmunity infrastructure facilities; impacts to/from other infrastructure
programs; other transport projects; impact on land use near projects, including
induced development; public health/safety; maintenance of construction site;
work-site cleanliness and sweeping; impacts on historic/archaeologic sites;
unearthing of ancient sites/relics; disposal of construction spoils and waste; and
oil and other hazardous substances.
c.     Prepare the manuals of practice in detail, including monitoring and reporting formats,
to mitigate the impacts during operation and maintenance of road projects. The following
measures should be considered:
*      Reduction of air/noise/vibration/water during operation.  For residential and
sensitive areas, the measures should,include, but not be limited to, speed limits,
traffic management, buffer zone, dry dust control, emission control,
pavement/shoulder design, manufacturer/import controls to reduce noise levels
at sources, physical barriers, building facade insulation, by pass routes; land use
controls to maximize distance between sensitive land uses and edge of roadway.
*      Spills of oil or other hazardous waste. For the areas proximate to sensitive water
resources and natural areas, the measures should include: establishing standards
for material handling and transport to avoid spills; establishing emergency
response and containment/clean-up procedures to minimize adverse effect of
spills.



- 79 -                                 Annex 3
Schedule 3
*      Monitoring includes: road users emissions; noise; squatter settlement; intercity
highway system; public health/safety; upkeep of landscaping; and public
complaints/investigation.
5.     Task 2. Prepare the guidelines/manuals for planning, monitoring, and evaluation, including:
a.     General guidelines for planning and design, including monitoring, which are
appropriate for Thailand and DOH (in Thai and/or English). Existing guidelines related
to roads and the environment (the World Bank, ADB, etc.) should be studied. This
should include:
*      the guidelines to assist decision makers in the orientation of economic and
engineering-based policies so that they complement regulatory programs for
controlling environmental degradation within the highways sector.
*      the guidelines for national, regional, and local road master planning, with careful
attention to environmental concerns and integration with other development
activities. This includes criteria for ranking of projects during project screening.
*     the guidelines for monitoring programs, including all aspects of the community
environment. These programs should address quality-of-life, socio-economic,
institutional, and financing aspects. It should provide for periodic evaluation of
the monitoring data for use in planning needed improvement, and include
establishment of an appropriate central environmental database adequate for
assessing environmental quality in quantified terms suitable for use by
administrators, engineers, environmentalists, and economists.
b.     Manuals for performance of economic analysis of highway development projects which
take into consideration environmental costs and benefits.
c.     Handbooks for conducting ElAs for all categories of road projects, in sufficient detail
to facilitate wide-scale use and application of the EIA process. This includes the IEE and
checklists.
6.     Task 3. Prepare speciric guidelines/manuals for roadway design with due consideration given
to mninimnizing the need for land acquisition and to increase the effectiveness of noise/vibration control,
road safety, slope protection, and drainage design. For the last three cases (road safety, slope protection,
and drainage design), field surveys and/or pilot studies should be carried out to develop appropriate
criteria for the specific guidelines/manuals. A road safety master plan and program is being developed
and implemented under a separate action plan. During the planning and design stages, the following
reconmnendations should be considered:
a.     Water pollution from runoff. In the areas of high traffic volumes which are proximate
to drinking water reservoirs, areas of great biological value, and streams/rivers with
limited flows, the runoff should be directed away from sensitive water bodies through
roadways/shoulder design; use of catchment basins to allow for filtration of runoff; and
temporary impoundment and treatment at particular sensitive locations.



- 80 -                                   Annex 3
Schedule 3
b.     Interference with natural drainage patterns.  The following measures should be
considered -- drainage works to restore beneficial natural drainage patterns, to reduce
flooding in flood-prone areas and to impound water or encourage recharge in dry areas.
c.     Soil erosion.  The following measures should be considered -- limiting clear area;
mulching/planning and plant maintenance; slope design and stabilization; drainage works;
specification of work-site details (quarrying, off-road equipment traffic). The basic
design standards should be required in all areas and the specialized features should be
required in the areas of steep slopes, unstable soils or other erosion-prone areas.
d.     Historic/archaeological sites. For areas of cultural significance, the following measures
should be considered -- avoidance, preservation and information extraction; removal and
relocation of significant resources as last resort; and development of contractor
procedures.
e.     Impaired views, aesthetics. For scenic areas, national parks, and areas with tourists
potential, the following measures should be considered -- design to minimize alteration
of and maximize fit with existing environment.
f.     Induced development into ecologically sensitive areas. For sensitive natural areas and
national parks/preserves, the following measures should be considered --local or national
land use control.
g.     Relocation/resettlement. For roadway segments proximate to residential and business
developments, the following measures should be considered -- routing, bypass
construction; establishing and enforcing resettlement and compensation standards.
h.     Community life and economic activities. For community areas, the following should
be considered -- establishing and coordinating with local officials to arrange for local
circulation, business and housing needs.
7.     Task 4.  Considering the scope of work and the implementation of the guidelines/manuals
prepared above, consult with DOH and prepare and/or implement the following activities in detail,
including workplan and budget:
a.     Identify and carry out the pilot studies, at least one for each priority area, and prepare
strategy, including acquisition of advanced technology, to increase efficiency of the
design and construction.
b.     DOH overall training program for both in-country and abroad (see the strategy identified
in Schedule 5 Training Program) and prepare training materials to be used by DOH (in
Thai and/or English as appropriate).
8.     Task 5. Provide on-the-job training abroad for at least 10 technical staff in the specific areas.



- 81 -                               Annex 3
Schedule 3
C.    Expected Input and Work Schedule
9.    It is expected that the study will take about 18 months and total input is about 100 mm. The
preparation of the general guidelines/manuals and the training program should be completed within the
first six (6) months. The specific and National and/or international consultants will be acquired.
- prepare guidelines/manuals for construction and operation          4 mm
- prepare general guideline/manual for planning                      4 mm
- prepare specific guideline/manual for design                       8 mm
- conduct pilot studies, including acquisition of advanced technology  47 mm
- prepare training program and training materials                    7 mm
- provide on-the-job training for specific areas                    30 mm
Total                                                100 mm



-82 -                                 Annex 3
Schedule 4
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Land Acquisition, Resettlement, and Compensation Issues
A. Existing Practice and Previous Experience
1.    Land acquisition, resettlement, and compensation are often required for the construction of new
roads and highways when new alignments include intersections and the right-of-ways (ROW) are needed.
For widening projects, where the existing ROWs are inadequate, limited land acquisition, resettlement,
and compensation may be required. Due to the linear nature of road and highway projects, displacement
and land acquisition generally occur along the routes at different times. Thus, large scale resettlement
is not a normal DOH practice and usually can be avoided. Land acquisition procedures and the level of
compensation follow those provisions specified by the Land Expropriation Act (LEA) of 1987.
2.    Land acquisition procedure. DOH carries out the land acquisition process in three stages (see
Figures S4. 1 and S4.2). The process is initiated after completion of a preliminary survey and design for
new alignrent or expansion and clear ROW is defined. DOH first seeks a voluntary agreement for sale
with the land owners. DOH first establishes the highest price based on the guidelines and criteria
specified by the Civil and Commercial Law on buying and selling and the Land laws. This method is
commonly used for small scale land acquisition. If an agreement cannot be reached or if it is a large
scale land acquisition, DOH seeks issuance of a Royal Decree and the LEA is applied. By law, a
committee called the Valuation and Negotiation Conmmittee (VNC) is established to valuate the properties
and buildings and negotiate with the owners. The NVC is appointed by the Minister of Transport and
Communications (MOTC) and comprises one representative from DOH, Land Department, and Local
Government, and one representative from each of the local councils concerned. Compensation is paid
to the owners of the land, buildings, trees and crops; renters; and other damages such as the right to use
roads, drainages, electric lines, etc. Due to the limited validity of the Royal Decree (4 years), DOH
speeds up the process by seeking cabinet approval for issuance of a Ministerial Order for Urgent Notice
whereby DOH is authorized to use the property under the specified conditions after the appropriated
compensation is deposited. At the same time, DOH seeks issuance of a specific land acquisition law for
the project. The total time required for land acquisition through a Royal Decree is about 300-400 days.
3.    Criteria to valuate compensation. Land valuation is made according to the LEA, whose criteria
for valuation were revised a few times to provide fairness to both the affected groups and the general
public. Before 1987, three criteria were used by DOH to valuate the maximum value for negotiation:
tax assessment value, the property value for registration and collection of fees (property assessment value)
and the location of the land. The average value of these three criteria was used as the maximum value
for negotiation. During the period 1987 to 1990, according to the revised LEA, the higher value of these
three criteria was considered as the maximum value for land negotiation. In February 1991, the LEA
was again modified by a Notice of the National Peace Keeping Council No. 44 and five criteria were
established: (i) tax assessment value, (ii) property assessment value, (iii) location of the land, (iv) market
assessment value, and (v) the need and objective of land acquisition. These criteria are being used by
DOH for the land acquisition process at present. For buildings and other compensations, DOH estimates
the amount of compensation and submits it to the VNC for consideration and approval. The principle



-83 -                                  Annex 3
Schedule 4
used in the estimation is that the owners will receive fair compensation and be able to move and rebuild
the same type of building.
4.     Notification, negotiation, and grievance. After the valuation process, the VNC issues public
notices on land values and other compensation and DOH notifies the owners individually. Negotiations
are carried out and if successful, payment is made within 120 days after the signing of an agreement or
120 days after the promulgation of the specific land compensation act. If negotiations are unsuccessful,
the owners can file their complaints with the Minister within 60 days. The Minister appoints a Complaint
Committee comprised experts of not less than five experts on law and valuation to consider the case and
make recommendations. If the Minister does not respond within 60 days or if the owners are not satisfied
with the Minister's decision, the owners can bring the case to court within one (1) year. DOH pays
compensation according to the court's orders.
5.    Issues. Despite the Government's and DOH's intention to minimize adverse impacts on the
affected groups, several key issues arise. First is the delay in payment, the major causes of which are
the limited budget allocation from the Government and DOH's limited capacity to facilitate effective
implementation of the process. This problem is being alleviated through improved coordination and
cooperation with the Budget Bureau and a significant increase in the budget allocation for land acquisition
during the past two years. More actions, however, are necessary to solve this issue.
6.     The second issue deals with the level of impacts and acceptance of the affected groups. This is
the most difficult and complicated issue. DOH is authorized to acquire land and provide compensation
according to those provisions specified by law. There are complaints for inadequate compensation and
unfair treatment, especially in the projects involving urban areas and/or indirect impacts. In the past,
DOH paid compensation to the owners of the land for indirect damage (such as soil erosion) and groups
of people who illegally occupied the public land. These cases, however, were considered on a case by
case basis and often required a long process due to the need to get direction and/or approval from the
Ministry of Finance and/or the cabinet. It is envisaged that to deal with this issue more effectively, close
consultation and a good database system at both the central and local levels is necessary. Through close
cooperation and coordination among the central and local offices, an inventory for the existing ROWs
will be carried out and updated periodically. The information will be integrated into the database system
for roads and highways that will be developed by DOH under technical assistance of ADB. Training of
all concerned staff is also necessary.
B. DOH Policy and Strategy
7.     The Government's and DOH's policy is to avoid and minimize resettlement, land acquisition, and
other negative impacts on the environment and the people. If resettlement and land acquisition is
unavoidable, fair compensation and treatment will be provided to all affected groups according to the
direction and guidelines provided by law or the cabinet. A system of grievance related to resettlement,
land acquisition, and compensation will be clearly established and made known to the public. It is DOH's
intention to do its best to assist the displaced people and ensure that their former living standards can be
restored or improved.
8.    Implementation of this policy, however, requires a long lead time and an adequate capacity on
the part of DOH. It is envisaged that, at the initial stage, the implementation strategies will focus on
developing means to facilitate effective integration of social issues into the early stages of project



-84 -                                   Annex 3
Schedule 4
preparation and effective implementation of the land acquisition process. The strategies/means include
the following:
a.     Increasing DOH's capacity, at both the central and local levels, to effectively plan and
implement the land acquisition process and protect the ROWs, including close
consultation with the local communities. The activities include, but are not limited to: -
--[Land Acquisition Division]
*      Establishing an effective database management system  for land acquisition,
especially in the area of mapping and data processing. It is expected that the
design of the system, including the specifications and bidding documents, will be
carried out as part of the central database development (ADB project), while
procurement of the equipment will be carried out under the Fifth Highway Sector
Project. Training of staff is expected to be part of this procurement.
*      Carrying out an inventory program for existing ROWs and defining programs
and/or activities (including responsible divisions/offices) to update the status of
the ROWs and to facilitate close consultation with the affected groups, the local
communities, and the local agencies. This will include programs to disseminate
information and to conduct an independent study for monitoring/evaluation as
appropriate.
*      Coordinating with concerned divisions (Planning Division, Location and Design
Division, EU) and/or agencies to seek ways and means to speed up the land
acquisition process and payment.
b.     When the new ROWs are required, attempts will be made to first avoid and/or minimize
the need for displacement and land acquisition during the planning stage. Unlike the
reservoir projects which are carried out by the Electricity Generation Authority of
Thailand (EGAT) and the Royal Irrigation Department (RID), large scale displacement
can be avoided by rerouting, modifying alignment, and building bypasses. Feasible
options and public consultation may be carried out as appropriate --[Planning Division,
Location and Design Division, EU].
c.     If displacement is inevitable, the degree of impacts will be studied in more detail during
the feasibility study and mitigation measures prepared. For small scale displacement
and/or other social impacts, DOH will consider all feasible options to provide adequate
compensation and/or assistance (such as restore or replace any access taken) to the
affected groups as specified by laws and/or the cabinet.  Close consultation and
coordination with the public, the local community, the affected groups and other
concerned agencies will be carried out ---[Planning Division, EU].
d.     For large scale impacts, where displacement of more than 200 people is involved, the
feasibility study will include the preparation of a specific strategy with time bound action
plan, comprising: baseline data; options and budget for displacement, compensation, and
restoration of the living conditions; and monitoring and evaluation the effectiveness of
the program. For those illegal inhabitants, especially the minority and the disadvantaged
groups, the plan will identify measures to be taken to ensure that they will not be worst
off because of the project. Due consideration will be given to the necessity, income



-85 -                                   Annex 3
Schedule 4
levels, occupation, duration of inhabitation, and the necessity for making a living.
Measures will also be taken to ensure adequate budget and capacity of the agencies
responsible for carrying out the plan ---[Planning Division, EU].
e.     Develop mechanisms/means to facilitate effective consultation with the local communities
and other agencies to minimize the social impacts during the planning stage. The
activities include, but are not limited to, --[Planning Division, EU]:
*      initiating close relationships with the key agencies responsible for welfare and
well being of the affected groups, especially the minority and the disadvantaged
groups (the provinces, local governments, social and welfare department, national
housing authority, labor ministry, etc.).
*      developing and implementing a process, standard procedure, and/or manual of
practice to facilitate effective consultation and/or participation of the affected
groups, the local communities, and the public during the implementation of DOH
projects.
C. Workplan and Schedule
9.     A consulting firm will be acquired to assist in the implementation of the program. Terms of
Reference will be prepared during the first four months of project implementation, and the TA would be
carried out to project completion.



-86 -                                Annex 3
Figure S4.1
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Land Acquisition Overview
Identify
Preliminary                 DOH Obtains
Route                     Ministerial Order- Able to Make Use
(Urgent Noiice)  of the Property
4 - 5 months
Issue Royal Decree              Royal Decree in Eftect
10 - 12 months                    Vafid for 4 years
DOH and Land Owner
Seek Agreement         Reach Voluntary Acreement
to Procure           to Sell Property According
to Royal Decree
Detailed                                 Issue Land          Acquire
|  Design   |                         Acquisition Law    {   Rights
2 years
J



-87 -                                                    An    3
Figure S4.2
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
DOH Land Acquisition Process
DOH Land Acquisition Process
|-Proxect Proponene Dsvision submmts map ol alignment |
|-Chocked by Land Acquisition Division (10 days) 
|* Ex amino Intorma(ion            90ISSUE ROYAL DECREE               I         or aUE LAW
(30 days)                       * OOH prepat es ntormatiot            DOH prsparies   (0ormation & a ap and
* Got approval aor lanm & map and submits to tne                        submns to the CaDmet lof approval
acquisition and estaboish         Cabinet lor appsoval                   r pinciple  m  principle  (120 days)
Nrtgottation and Valuatton        (1I0 days)                           Legal Commitee examts the dealt
Commities (30 days)             * Lregal Comminlee                     (90 days)
examines the dralt DcCabree Secfearial OPeice submits so the
(90 days)                            Cabinet ute approval and order tor
* CSbiret Secreatarias O(ice           preparing ys aps  30 days)
submits to ohe Cabtmen  Poepare 2n500 sets
for approval rtnd orde,              of maps and submit to
oto preparing maps                   Parliarsnna oor consideration
(30 days)                            (45 dtrys plus l   ome depindae nt
* Prepare 8.500 sets ot mnaps          on the Parigament)
ana ipsue lhe Woyai Dcise                                oy Pepare 8500 seets o maps
(90 days)                            and issue the law
* Survey and estabilsh a               (90 days)
CommDttnt on Compensaluon
(30 days)
I                                              In case of isstnng law
- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---   -   -                   according  to  Article  23
(30 daysSurvey cuatcompensatnor m case of no
* Establish riterf                * adApprval Within DOH                                        Roya Docy)levt
tor compensCion lor land.      a           Cabinei Approval r
buildings. and Iens                      * Cabine Issues Ungeni Nohce w
(45 days)                                  Deposit money and make use
*Division submns to                          of land
DOH  iorai proval
(30 days)
LAND                      BUILDINGS iTRIEES
* Nrotyc tove Ownerse omonalo
(30 days)                 (60 ays)
* Certioy ownr pCompasation Commil-e reviows
(90 days)                (30 days)
* CaEcula         p    o  to tsue notice and negotiate with Owners
compensation             (30 days)
(S  days)                Approve tor paymenit (e5 - 40 dayse
*Examine tnlormnaSion
(30 days)
. Notice to Own irs
(30 days)
* Approve to    W pay-
mnent (15 - 40 days) 
Paymnent                        Paymeni 
(TIa ol 3 5lo                  (Total of 300 tO|
40days                           325 days)
GRIEVANCE PROCESS
*Submil informaiton to the Comrmittee on Gfievancets
*Explamation to the Committee on Grievance
* Calculate compensation according to the Moisler's order
* Payment according to the Mcoiser's order
*Sue in court
*Submit informattion to the Proseculor
Wiress tSSn courts
*Calculatlt comprtnsation accoiding to the couit's ofder
*Payment according to the court's or det



- 88 -                                Annex 3
Schedule 5
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Strate2v and Pro2ram for DOH Environmental Training
A. Training Strategy
1.    The main objective of DOH's training program is to increase awareness, knowledge, and
experience of DOH staff at all levels so that the environmental issues are considered at all stages of road
development projects and mitigation measures are effectively taken. At present it is recognized that the
DOH training center carries out a training program to provide technical knowledge and experience to
DOH staff as well as officials from other neighboring countries. The MOSTE training center, named
the Environmental Research and Training Center (ERTC), which is operated under the responsibility of
the Environmental Quality Promotion Department (EQPD), carries out general environmental courses,
including EIA and air pollution control. These two training centers will play a major role in the
implementation of the DOH training program, and close coordination and cooperation among them will
be established as soon as possible.
2.    The training strategy to create a long-term  training capacity at DOH  to deal with the
environmental issues are:
a.    to integrate an environmental training program into DOH's existing training program
through development of a core group of environmental trainers and preparation of
training courses and training materials (in Thai).
b.    to establish a close relationship and training program with ERTC on specific subjects:
(i) measurement and management of air/noise/vibration impacts of highways projects; (ii)
measurement of water pollution; (iii) ecology and biodiversity; and (iv) general EIA
procedure and methodology.
c.    to establish a close relationship with the appropriate road organizations in developed
countries for exchange of knowledge and experiences through on-the-job training and
research, and development of the subjects related to environmental impacts of road, road
safety, and environmental cost/benefits for road projects. These organizations include:
the United States Federal Highway Administration, the United Kingdom Overseas
Development Administration, the Transport Research Laboratory Overseas Center, the
Sweden National Roads Administration, the Australia Roads Corporation, etc.
3.    The training activities will focus on in-country training and training of trainers. On-the-job
training in some specific areas and study tours for high-level decision makers are also necessary and will
be carried out periodically. A limited number of degree or diploma training in-country and/or abroad
will be carried out as appropriate. Scope of the training will consist of the following key elements over
a period of three (or five) years:



- 89 -                                   Annex 3
Schedule 5
a.     Basic Training: The purpose of this training is to:
*      Provide general knowledge and understanding of the broader environmental
issues facing DOH in its development and management of road and highway
activities.
*      Increase awareness and knowledge of DOH's staff on available technology and
environmental management for road projects and the future trends (at the
international, national, and local 'evels) for the environmental protection policies,
legislation, directives, enforcement, penalties, etc.
The training participants will include staff of DOH and other key agencies, including the
Budget Bureau, the Ministry of Finance, and the Office of Civil Service Conunittee.
b.     Specific technical training: This training is aimed at increasing the technical knowledge
and experience of DOH's staff at both the central and local levels. Priority for training
will be given to the EU staff; the engineers, technicians, and other officials responsible
for planning, surveying and design, construction, operation and maintenance of
road/highways projects; and the staff responsible for land acquisition, research and
development, and training. Implementation of case studies and exchanges of actual
experience of local and international specialists will be encouraged, and inputs of the
short-term ETSs may be required as appropriate. The training areas will include:
*      knowledge about control technology for air, noise, vibration, and water quality
impacts of road projects;
*      knowledge about EIA study/methodology and after-project evaluation for road
projects;
*      database management for road projects;
*      environmental cost/benefits of highway projects methodology -- 3-6 months
training abroad;
*      site supervision training -- to provide in-depth methodological, technical, and
practical knowledge covering all activities of supervising the construction work
and maintenance; case studies and site visits both in-country and abroad will be
encouraged.
c.     Long term training -- 1-2 studies for master degree or diploma (2-3 years) will be
identified with assistance from the ETSs.



- 90 -                                 Annex 3
Schedule 5
B. Training Program (to be finalized under TA financed by ADB)
4.     With assistance from the ETSs, the workplan and schedule for the training program (in-country
and abroad) will be established and carried out. The training programs will include the following:
Program 1: Specific training with ERTC. DOH will work closely with ERTC/EQPD in
developing and implementing a training program on the environmental issues related to
road/highway projects. Special attention will be given to provide training on (i) the preparation
of EIA, IEE, and checklists; (ii) air, noise, vibration, and water pollution control, including
measurement methods; (iii) land and marine ecology and biodiversity; and (iv) social aspects.
It is anticipated that during 1996, the specific training program (for 20-25 persons/course),
including training materials, for DOH's staff will be developed and the training will be carried
out the following years. Beginning in 1997, limited DOH staff will participate in the training
courses which are already provided by the ERTC.
Program 2: Build DOH training capacity. DOH will identify 15-20 trainers from the EU and
staff from the key divisions and offices responsible for project planning and implementation,
including training and research and development. These trainers will have priority to participate
in all training courses, including on-the-job training, and will be responsible for assisting in the
preparation and implementation of the DOH environmental training courses and training
materials. Qualified trainers will be selected for long-term training (degree or diploma) in-
country or abroad, as appropriate.
Program 3: Management training. The activities will include meetings, seminars, workshops,
conferences, and study tours as appropriate. During 1996-99, the following activities will be
carried out:
a.     Convene seminars/conferences on "roads/highways and the environment" -- this is to
acquire and exchange international knowledge and experience of the environmental issues
and to establish relationships and cooperation with road agencies or institutions in
developed countries, especially in the area of on-the-job training.
b.     Convene in-house seminars/workshops on road/highway projects and the environment.
This is to provide basic knowledge of the environmental issues and road/highway projects
in Thailand, including laws and regulations related to the EIA, IEE, and checklists.
Representatives from other key agencies will be invited as appropriate.
C.     Convene two study tours for senior staff of DOH and other key agencies responsible for
the planning and implementation of the environmental works for road and highway
projects.



- 91 -                                      Annex 3
Figure 5.1
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Reconunended DOH Environmental Process
Project Identification and Planning Stage
Project Request
Received by DOH
* Internal
* External
* Other RTG
DOH Planning Div.
Input of Information / Data
Develop Master List                   from PCD and OEPP/DOE
Monitoring.
DOH / Environmental Unit (EU) Identify:
inir         o Rules/Regulations (see OEPP
Screen Projects                              Regulations and Notifications).
for Eng5lneering, Economic, andi      * Potential Environmental and Social
Environmental Viability Including          Issues Based on Preliminary Survey
Identirication oV Alternatives.             Including Mitigations to be Required.
* Potential Environmental Costs/Benefits.
* Consultation with OEPP,
* Consultation with the Public as
Appropriate.
Rank Projects
According to Engineerng,                  DOH Develop Criteria and
Economic, Environmental,               Manuals of Practice for Rankin
and Social Constraints
DOH / EU Identiiy:
* Environmental Requirements
(EIA, IEE, Checklist,
Prepare Project Action List                    Guidelines, and Manuals)
and Steps to be Taken for
Each Project.
* Budget to be Included in the
Project Cost.
Go to Preconstruction Stage



- 92 -                                       Annex 3
Figure 5.1 cont.
Preconstruction Stage (Feasibility Study / Detailed Design)
NO      /     \|Project Selected from|
YES
FStudy by Planning D'iv.          DOH / EU:
* Prepare TOR                       * Prepare TORs (see OEPP Guidelines);
* FS Study                Is Required  * Consult OEPP;
* Consultation with the Public as
Appropriate;
* Prepare Strategy and/or TOR for
Detailed Studies on Social Issues
Including Compensation to the
Affected Groups and Relocation;
DOH / EU / Consultants
* Prepare IEE/EIA Including Cost for
Mitigation Measures, Alternatives
and Monitoring Program.
NO    * Prepare Action Plan for Relocation
(having lega I and non-lega I rights)
and Identification of Mitigation
Measures to Other Affected Groups.
OEPP Reviews the IEE/EIA
y      kApproved?    (see EIA Review Process) Public
Consultation and/or Hearing May
be Required.
Location and Design Div.
Design Project                             Design Guidelines / Standards to
with Inclusion of Standards and           be Developed by the Location
Project-Specific Environmental            and Design Division and
Mitigation Measures and OEPP              Environmental Unit.
Conditions Including Those for
Dealing with Social Issues.
Construction Div.I Loan Control Div.
Prepare Contract Documents                Manuals for Preparation of
Including Lists of Contractor             Contract Documents to Include
Responsibilities to Conform with          Environmental Mitigation During
OEPP Conditions and Other                 Construction to be Developed by
Mitigation Measures During                Construction Div., Loan Control
Construction.                             Div. and Environmental Unit.
|Go to Construction Stage    |<DHIplements the Compen- |
|                 r              sation a~~~~~~~~nd Relocation Plans.   |



-93-                                      Annex 3
Figure 5.1 cont.
Construction Stage
DOH
Bid Reviews                              DOH / Environmental Unit
Contractor Must:                        * Prepare Manual of Practice for
* Be Technically Capable                       Monitoring and Reporting
* Be Financially Capable                       During Construction and
* Acknowledge the Need to                     Operation with OEPP
Conform with the                         Consultation.
Environmental Regulations          * Assign Responsibility to EU
and Carry Out the                        Staff or Other Officials to
Mitigation Program                       Carry Out the Monitoring
and Reporting Tasks.
Supervision Officer
* Monitor Mitigation Measures Compliance
and Assess Whether the Contractor
Pertormance is Satisfactory.
Construction                    * In Case of Public Complaints and/or Non-
Compliance: Identify the Problems
and Solve Them. Report the Results
to DOH/EU. If the Situation does not
Improve, Report to Higher
Authorities as Appropriate for
Further Action.
OEPP Monitors Compliance
Periodically and Reports Serious
< -    ~Non-Compliance to NEB for
Further Action.
After Completion,
Go to Operation Stage    .



- 94 -                                     Annex 3
Figure 5.1 cont.
Operation and After Project Stage
DOH / Environmental Unit                                 OEPP
*Monitor Compliance During the                 * OEPP Periodically Monitors
Operation Including Public                     Compliance Including Public
Complaints or Unidentified                     Complaints and Unidentified
Environmental Issues.     <                    Environmental Issues.
* Submit the Monitoring Results                * In Case of Serious Non-
to OEPP.                                       Compliance, Report the
Results to NEB for Further
Action.
In Case of Serious Issues,
DOH / OEPP and Other                                If Necessary,
Concerned Agencies Address   4                    Stop the Operation.
the Problems and Develop
Implement the Mitigation
Measures.
n r
DOH / OEPP Carry Out Post
Evaluation Assessment and                    OEPP Prepares Guidelines for
Consider Modification of the                 O the Post Evaluation Process.
Process to Increase Efficiency
and Effectiveness of the EIA
Process for Road Sector.
Go to Identification
and Planning Stage



-95-                                    Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input
1.     The staff input indicated in the table below refers to field missions only and is in addition to regular
supervision needs at headquarters for review of progress and audit reports and consultants' reports on technical
assistance and studies, procurement actions, correspondence, etc., which is estimated at four staff weeks in FY1995
and five staff weeks each for fiscal years 1996-2000. The Bank's supervision input is estimated to total 96 staff-
weeks, of which 29 would be at headquarters and 67 in the field. This input is higher than the average but is
dictated by the complex action plans for reduction of pollution from vehicle emissions and improved traffic safety
which req,uire considerable input from specialists.
April 1996     SuDerviSion Mission:                             Transport Economist,   8
Expedite start-up; review set-up and staffing of  Highway Engineer,
APCU; review TORs for consultancies for the   Environmental
implementation of the Action Plans and        Specialists, and Road
specifications and other procurement          Safety Expert
documentation for and procurement of related
equipment; annual review of the Seventh Plan and
Action Plans' implementation and review of
following year's (1996) program for tendering of
civil works and execution of Action Plans; review
detailed engineering and procurement of civil
works; review TORs for new design and
supervision consultancies (and for project-financed
studies.)
October 1996   Supervision Mission:                             Transport Economist,   8
Review of LTD vehicle inspection pilot program  Highway Engineer,
and Demonstration Inspection Center.          Environmental
Specialists, and Road
Status of Action Plans and following year's   Safety Expert
program; review of progress of all project
components.
April 1997     Supervision Mission:                             Transport Economist 4
General review of progress and project status,  and Highway
Engineer
October 1997   Supervision Mission:                             Full staffing (As in  8
Detailed review of progress and status of all  April, 1995 mission.)
project components.



-96-                                     Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
April 1998     Supervision Mission:                               Transport Economist    4
General review.                                 and Highway
Engineer
October 1998   Supervision Mission:                               Full staffing          8
Detailed review of all components.
April 1999     Supervision Mission:                               Transport Economist    4
General review.                                 and Highway
Engineer
October 1999   Supervision Mission:                               Full staffing          8
Detailed review.
April 2000     Supervision Mission:                               Transport Economist    4
General review.                                 and Highway
Engineer
October 2000   Supervision Mission:                               Full staffing          8
Detailed review and initiation of ICR drafting.
April 2001     Implementation Completion Report Mission           Transport Economist    3
Finalization of ICR.                            and Highway
Engineer
Borrower's Supervision Contribution
2.     DOH will be responsible for the coordination of supervision as well as progress reporting on the design,
construction and supervision of civil works and studies for roads. The APCU and MOTC will be responsible for
coordination and reporting on all activities within the action plans and will arrange for meetings with associated
agencies and otherwise facilitate the work of Bank supervision missions.



- 97 -
Annex 5
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
US$ million
Project                    Loan     Board     Loan    Canceled      PCR/PPAR
Number    Date    Amount   Amount
Highways
National Highways Project                    341     5/29/63    35.00     13.13     none
Second Highway Project                      455      6/9/66    36.00       4.94     PCR 362
Third Highway Project                        535     5/21/68    29.00      6.12     PCR 758
Fourth Highway Project                       626     6/17/69    23.00      6.24     PCR 1634
Fifth Highway Project                        870     12/5/72    28.60      0.80     PCR 4476
Sixth Highway Project                       1519     2/14/78   110.00      7.43     PCR 6205
Bangkok Traffic Management Project          1638    12/12/78    16.00      8.41     PPAR 7068
Provincial Roads Project                    2035     7/7/81     35.00      5.50     PPAR 8447
Second Provincial Roads Project             2311     6/9/83    100.00      5.71     PCR 9542
Highway Sector Project                      2894     12/15/87    50.00     0.00     PCR 13768
Second Highway Sector Project               3008    12/13/88    87.00      0.21     PCR 13768
Third Highway Sector Project                3220     6/7/90     50.00      0.87     PCR 14672
Fourth Highway Sector Project               3446     3/19/92   177.50      0.00     Ongoing Project
Subtotal                     777.10   59.36
Railways
Railways Project                              35    10/27/50    3.00   0.00         none
Second Railway Project                       128     8/9/55     12.00   0.00        none
Third Railway Project                        280     4/27/61    22.00   7.50        none
Fourth Railway Project                       898     4/24/73    15.00  .50          PCR 2611
Fifth Railway Project                       1662     3/6/79     9.75   0.62         PCR 6163
Railway Efficiency Improvement Project      2872     9/15/87    13.00   1.57        PCR 13764
Subtotal                      74.75   10.19
Ports and Waterways
Port Project                                  37    10/27/50    4.40   0.00         none
Second Port Project                          151    10/11/56    3.40   0.14         none
Third Bangkok Port Project                   702     7/28/70    12.50   0.55        PCR 2147
Inland Waterways and Coasta Ports Project   1889     7/8/80    53.00   13.34        PCR 8408
Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project          1918    11/18/80   47.00   41.32        PPAR 7761
Subtotal                     120.30   55.35
Total                     972.15   124.90



- 98-
Annex 6
Page I of 3
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
One Link
Project Name                                 km                 km
Lampang-Lamphun Section 2                            30+000   -      40+100
Study         Rt. No.          CSN.        Length (km)           Standard           Surface
Road                      I
N-l            1 I            1300           10.10                PD                 PC
('000 Baht)
Cost                        Benefit
Year         Construction    Maintainance    Voc. & Time           Others            Cash Flow
1996               -88038.0           0.0              0.0          0.0                 -88038.0
1997              -176076.0           0.0              0.0          0.0                -176076.0
1998              -176076.0           0.0              0.0          0.0                -176076.0
1999                    0.0        -131.3         278163.0          0.0                 278031.7
2000                     0.0        -131.3        299362.3           0.0                299231.0
2001                     0.0       -131.3         322113.7           0.0                321982.4
2002                     0.0        -131.3        346549.1           0.0                346417.8
2003                    0.0        -131.3         369564.5           0.0                369433.2
2004                     0.0       -131.3         394341.0           0.0                394209.7
2005                     0.0       -131.3         421172.0           0.0                421040.7
2006                     0.0        -131.3        450248.7           0.0                450117.4
2007                     0.0       -131.3         481901.5           0.0                481770.2
2008                    0.0         -I131.3       5158513            0.0                515720.0
2009                     0.0        -131.3        548475.4           0.0                548344.1
2010                     0.0        -131.3        577173.2           0.0                577041.9
2011                     0.0       -131.3         605023.0           0.0                604891.9
2012                     0.0       -131.3         641963.0           0.0                641831.7
2013               220095.0         -131.3        684318.0                              904281.7
Sensitivity Test
Base Case          1                  2                  3
Internal Rate of Return (%)         50.47            44.58                 43.34           38.17
First Year Rate of Return (%)       51.32            42.77                 41.06           34.21
Net Present Value (12%)          1,647,556       1,584,420              1,254,909       1,191,774
Benefit-Cost Ratio (12%)             6.22             5.18                  4.98            4.15
Cost:                    Actual           +20%                  Actual          +20%
Benefit                  Actual           Actual                 -20%            -20%



- 99 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
One Link
Project Name                                 km             km
Ban Na - Nakhon Nayok                           120+000       137+000
Study Road          Rt. No.            CSN.         Length (kmn)    Standard       Surface
C33                33               0102            17.00           D            AC
('000 Baht)
Cost                        Benefit
Year                  Construction     Maintainance.    Voc. & Time      Others      Cash Flow
1996                        -67636.0             0.0             0.0      0.0           -67636.0
1997                       -135272.0             0.0             0.0      0.0          -135272.0
1998                      -135272..0             0.0             0.0      0.0          -135272.0
1999                             0.0             0.0        231451.1      0.0           231259.0
2000                             0.0              0.0       271661.1      0.0            271469.2
2001                             0.0           -192.1       317775.5      0.0            317583.4
2002                             0.0           -192.1       359321.3      0.0            359129.2
2003                             0.0           -192.1       405807.6      0.0            405615.5
2004                             0.0           -192.1       462262.3      0.0            462070.2
2005                             0.0           -192.1       561612.7      0.0            561420.6
2006                        -30940.0           -192.1       676648.6      0.0            645516.5
2007                             0.0           -192.1       724210.8      0.0            724018.6
2008                             0.0           -192.1       773738.8      0.0            773546.6
2009                             0.0           -192.1       826672.5      0.0            826480.4
2010                             0.0           -192.1       883391.2      0.0            883199.1
2011                             0.0           -192.1       941156.8      0.0            940964.6
2012                             0.0           -192.1       997805.3      0.0            997613.2
2011                        169090.0           -192.1      1055726.0      0.0           1224624.0
1        ~Sensitivity Test
Base Case          1                 2               3
Internal Rate of Return (%)              59.33             53.17            51.87           46.42
First Year Rate of Return (%)            55.56            46.30             44.45           37.04
Net Present Value (12%)              2,208,252         2,157,968         1,716,318      3,666,034
Benefit-Cost Ratio (12%)                  9.78              8.15             7.83            6.52
Cost:               Actual            +20%             Actual           +20%
Benefit             Actual            Actual            -20%            -20%



-100-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
THAILAND'
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
One Link
Project Name                                 km               km
Nakhon Pathom - Kamphaeng Saen                        0+000           25+000
Study Road       Rt. No.          CSN.         Length (km)         Standard          Surface
S-321           321                             25.00              D                PC
('000 Baht)
Cost                       Benefit
Year           Construction.    Maintainance.   Voc. & Time          Others          Cash Flow
1996               -161977.0             0.0              0.0         0.0               -161977.0
1997               -323953.0             0.0              0.0         0.0               -323953.0
1998               -323953.0             0.0              0.0         0.0               -323953.0
1999                     0.0          -387.5         693485.1         0.0                693097.6
2000                     0.0          -387.5          761739.7        0.0                761352.2
2001                      0.0         -387.5          828190.1        0.0                827802.6
2002                     0.0          -387.5          888018.1        0.0                887631.4
2003                      0.0         -387.5          952639.9        0.0                952252.4
2004                     0.0          -387.5         1022041.0        0.0               1021654.0
2005                     0.0          -387.5         1096648.0        0.0               1096260.0
2006                     0.0           -387.5        1176021.0        0.0               1175633.0
2007                     0.0          -387.5         1243814.0        0.0               1243426.0
2008                      0.0         -387.5         1309865.0        0.0               1309477.0
2009                     0.0           -387.5        1381304.0        0.0               1380916.0
2010                     0.0          -387.5         1474376.0        0.0               1473989.0
2011                     0.0          -387.5         1588277.0        0.0               1587890.0
2012                     0.0          -387.5         1710988.0        0.0               1710600.0
2013                404942.0           -387.5        1843191.0        0.0               2247745.0
Sensitivity Test
Base Case           1                2                 3
Internal Rate of Return (%)            62.52             55.49             54.02            47.81
First Year Rate of Return (%)          69.54             57.95             55.63            46.36
Net Present Value (12%)             4,475,453        4,359,293         3,464,202        3,348,042
Benefit-Cost Ratio (12%)                8.71              7.25              6.96             5.82
Cost:                   Actual            +20%              Actual            +20%
Benefit                  Actual           Actual            -20%              -20%



- 101 -                                  Annex 7
Page I of 2
THAILAND
FIFTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Name of Document                           Prepared by                         Date
(A) General
Al    Conditions of Contract                             DOH                   1983
A2    Specifications for Highway Construction            DOH                   1983
A3    Special Provisions (to Al and A2)                  DOH                   Mar. 1989
Berger Internat'l
A4    Tender                                             DOH                   Undated
A5    Land Transport Department Sector Paper             LTD                   Mar. 1990
A6    Year-end Report for 1989 (in Thai)                 DOH                   1990
A7    Highways in Thailand                               DOH                   1989
A8    50 Years of the Department of Land Transport  LTD                        1991
(B) Reports by Consultants
BI    Study of Trucking Industry: Phase 11               AMPSAX
Report I-LTD's Information System                 NECCO                 July 1986
Report Il-Nat'l Freight Transport Demand          DECONS                July 1986
Report III-Rural Transport Demand                                       July 1986
Report V-Vehicle Inspection                                             Aug. 1986
Report VI-Freight Origins and Destinations                              Aug. 1986
Report X-Truck Operator/Driver Courses                                  Feb. 1988
Final Report, Vols. I and II                                            Feb. 1988
B2    Study of Inter-City and Rural Bus Transport,               PPK           Feb. 1988
Phase 1, Executive Summary, Main Report and
Appendices
B3     Study of Inter-City and Rural Bus Transport,              PPK           July 1990
Phase II, Draft Final Report and Appendices              AEC
B4    Preparation of an Investment Program for                   PADECO        July 1991
the Department of Highways, Interiiii Report             Co., LTD



-102-                                    Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Sectoral Environmental Assessment for Thailand Hiighways
Balloffet & Associates for The World Bank (EAIIN)                           May 1994
National Ambient Air Ouality Standards: A Review of Recent Standards and Proposed Revisions -
Kingdom of Thailand; (PHRD Grant from Government of Japan)                  Oct. 1993
Thailand: Commercialization of LPG and Natural Gas Vehicles. BECA International Consultants
Ltd. in Association with Liquid Fuels Management Group, Ltd (PHRD Grant from Government of
Japan):
Phase 1: Final Report on Economic Potential for Gas Fuels;           Oct. 1994
Phase 2: Interim Report on Target Vehicle Markets and
Outline Commercialization Plan;                               Jan. 1995
Revised Final Summary Report: Technical Assistance in the Development of
Emission Standards for New and Existing Vehicles in Thailand;
Radian Cooperation (PHRD Grant from Government of Japan); including
the following component reports:                                            Aug. 1995
Tab I         Radian Comments on Thai I/M Program
Tab 2         Benefits of QA/QC for the Thai I/M Program
Tab 3         Thai I/M Emissions and safety Inspection Procedures
Tab 4         Thai I/M QA/QC Manual
Tab 5         Basic Emissions Repair Manual for Non-Emissions Controlled Vehicles
Tab 6         Diesel Standards Report
Tab 7         Motorcycle Standards Report
Tab 8         Opacity Report
Tab 9         Demonstration Inspection Center Technical Specifications
Tab 10        Demonstration Inspection Center Report
Tab 11        QA/QC Program Level of Effort and Level of Funding Memo
Tab 12        Fuels and Lubes Seminar Material
Tab 13        QA/QC Seminar Material
Tab 14        Roadside Inspection Report
Tab 15        Repair Effectiveness Report
Tab 16        Driving Cycle Statistics (Automotive and Motorcycle)
Tab 17        Computer System Report
Tab 18        Study Tour Report
Tab 19        Datalogger Installation Manual
Tab 20        Bangkok Driving Cycle Report
Tab 21        Driving Cycle Development Presentation
Tab 22        Comments on Emissions Test Procedures Developed by EF&EE
Tab 23        Logistical Requirements for the Emissions Lab
National Action Plan for Air Quality Management - Final Draft Report:
Radian Cooperation and Dr. M. Walsh (USAID) for Thailand Department of
Pollution Control, Air Quality Division;                                    July 1995






Charts






THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Transport and Communications
Ministry or Transport
and Communications
Office of the
Secretary to the Minister
Office of the
Permanent Secretary
Posi and                 ~~~~~~Office of the
Department of     Department of        Harbor         Department of             TPostandh       Meteorological   Mercantile Marine
Laid Transport       Aviation         Department         Highways               Telegraph         Department         Promotion
Department                ~~~Commission
Port  Airports                             ~~~~~~The
APlhority         Airuports            State Railway    Communiattions
AuThorityno AThorityn                    of Thailand       Authority of
of Thailand        l Thailand    _Thailand
Transport        Thai Airways      Thai Airways           Thai Maritime     Aeronautical
Company          International       Aircraft              Navigation          Radio of
Limited    Ltd.         ~~Maintenance             CO., Ltd.        Thailand Ltd.
I   Bangkok   1 |   Telephone       Express
Mass ransit       Organization     Transportation
Authority        of Thailand      Organization
Source: MOTC



THAILAND
Organization of the Department of Highways
Director General
Seniqr Expert                Senior Expert               Senior Expert                          Interl
for Plhnning              for Highway Design         for Structural Design                    Audit Office
.   -                        -    I                          I        
Senior Expert                Senior Expert               Senior Expert
for Material                for Research          for Mechanical Equipment                 f
Deputy Director General      Deputy Director General     Deputy Directr General         Chief Engineer          Deputy Director General           Toll Highways
.    for Administration           for Engineering              for Operations            for Construction             for Maintenance   l| Ofc
OHice of                   FPlanning                   Mechanical                National and                Maintenance               Architectural
_  the Secretary      _        Division            _       Division            _Specil Highways           _       Division                 Landscape      _
Construction 114 Contrucio
Division                                              Offie 
Personnel                   Location and             Office of Mechanicall                                  15 Highway DivisionI
_   Division         _   ~~~~~~Design Division   | _    Engineering    |                                         Offices
I               I              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road             i
Construction II           85 Highway District 
l  Finance  |        |  ~~~~~Materials and        |OfcoVhi&                _       Division             |      Otfices. |
Division                     Flm esearch Division  |       Light Equipment|
I   .  I      I                  I        |  ~~~~~~~~~Workshop                                   | 51Hiha
Procurement    I          I Loans Control   I          II                           Construction III* ||            Dpt 
n   Division  l     n       ~~~~~~Division         |     office of                     Office                    8 Construction 
l    l        l                   l    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hev Workshpment                                 Centers
Legal                       Traffic Engineering |Worksho                                Bridge              F u 7 Construction |
Division              I      Division                                            Constnutbon IV* I|Poects Otfice                                  -
Equi.pment   I               Office 
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                              ~Fb 1994
Management   I                                            osrcin                          | 
Medicai                        Rad Research and    i          Division                                          PrjcsOli                    In
Division                    Development Center                                                Road  II
I  |       |                                  H  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Construction V |
F-Comiputer                         Office
Training                                            |     Division
Right-of-Way|
Highwvay Training   |                                        Division.    |
G enter(]                                                     
Feb, 1 994



THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of the Department of Land Transport
I   Director-General
Senior Land
Transport Planning
tnspeclor
General 
I= r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
I   Internal     L|                   Depu          l
Audilor                           Direclor-Generals 
.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial
Cenlral Adminisirlb                                                  ArJministralbon
72 rovin :il Offies
Serlr                       an Plnnn                               17 Provinces                 14 Provinces.                                          o
| Transpod |l                 Transport   ||North Eastern |                                   Central Region 
SoLrce: LTn
Transporl                   Trnspor                            Passen erslus |7  rvca
3ivl5ion                     vsuni!otn                         64TriasBranch OHkeas
Bangkok                   Motor Vehicle
Transport                  Registration
Office                     Ouffice
Transport Office            Transport Office
Supervision                 Supervision
Area I                     Area 11
Transport Office
Supervision
Area III
Source: LTD






MAP SECTION












M Y A N M A R  -                                             LAX MYANM
MYANMAR                                                                       P D R~
- pn c    i,LAO PEOPLE'S               THAILANDIO
DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
4-~~~~~~~~~~~                                             '
N 0 R   EN 
'\ / ' X  X        2 4-.         r                                       ,LY 
lb~ ~~J~ \      Kd i t     -{                 ,     ,     
MYANMAR~            ~             CENTR  L. -
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
10-                                                                          -  *IC
THAILAND
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK
,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Noi,a k;, S g ;                       -   'y,,'
R.ilrod.
T14                                             Aipr''_
( vocb f ) othoif 5 4 r -nRo0i n boundaries
KIIIOMFEJES
0    SD  100  150  200
MILES
MALAYSIA'
-Mo-f-'~  >w~4-  L.r Ibn10









5Vj           : 5id-lA1
- - 4 -r,-.,-3,i_ j6I
1 i_    r r  U ; .    |, -f                               _ tV   1T 
"II" 13    - 14   l -1 T.l



