Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16466-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS STATE PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
April 9, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - Real (Rs.$)
Rs.$l.l39-US$l.00 (April 8. 1998)
This exchange rate has becn uscd throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP           Annual Disbursement Plan
BCN           Banco de Crddito Nacional
National Credit (Private) Bank
BEMGE         Banco do Estado de Minas Gerais
State Bank of Minas Gerais
BHMR          Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
CEMIG         Companhia Energ-tica de Minas Gerais
Minas Gerais State Power Company
CONAMA        Conselho Nacional de Meio Ambiente
National Environmental Council I  I
COPAM         Conselho Estadual de Polftica Ambiental
State Council on Environmental Policy
CREDIREAL  Banco de Cr6dito Real de Minas Gerais S.A.
CREDIREAL (state) Bank
DER/MG        Departamento Estadual de Rodovias de Minas Gerais
State Department of Roads
ERR           Economic Rate Of Return
FEAM          Fundaao Estadual de Polftica Ambiental
State Enwviron7mental Protection Foundation
FINEP         Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
Financial Agency for Studies and Projects
FIRR          Financial Internal Rate of Return
GASMIG        Companhia Estadual de Gas de Minas Gerais
State Gas Company
GTZ           Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
German Technical Assistance Organization
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
PETROBRAS  Companhia Brasileira de Petroleo
State Oil Company
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SEAIN/MPO   Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais/Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
International Affairs Secretariat/Ministry of Planning and Budgeting
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SPP           State Privatization Project
TOR           Terms of Reference
Vice President :          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director,         Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:          Guillermo Perry
Task Manager .            David Vetter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ii
MINAS GERAIS STATE PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                The State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor:               The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:    State Secretariat of Planning
Poverty Category:        Not Applicable
Amount:                  US$170 million (including up to US$85.0 million in
retroactive financing)
Terms:                   Standard amortization terms, grace period and fixed interest
rate for US dollar single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 0-3 years.
Commitment Fee:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See Table 4.2
Net Present Value:       Not Applicable; See Annex E for ERR
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 16466-BR
Map:                     No. IBRD 28732
Project Identification
Number:                  BR PA 40033
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of: their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iii
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
Minas Gerais State Privatization Loan
Table of Contents
Page
1. COUNTRY AND STATE BACKGROUND ........................................................S
Country Context ........................................................5
Recent Countrv Economic Policies and Developments ........................................................5
Bank Strategv ........................................................7
2. THE MINAS GERAIS PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM ........................................................                                        9
Background ........................................................9
Program Setting .......................................................9
Structural Reforms .......................................................                                                           10
A. PRIVATIZATION/LIQUIDATION OF STATE BANKS ...................................................I....................... ..11
Overview ........................................11
The BEMGE Privatization Strategy .......................................                  ,          .        .......................... 11
B. PRIVATIZATION OR CONCESSION OF PUBI .C ENTITIES ........................................................................... 12
Highways ................................................................... 12
Road Concession Program ..........................                                                                                   13
Gas Sector/GASM            .................................................................... 15
C. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ............................................................................... 17
3. THE PROJECT ..........................                                                                                                18
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE ..                                                                                                                 18
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..18
C. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                  ..20
Lessons Learned From Previous BanklIDA Involvement .20
D. ENVIRONMFNTAL ASPECTS                                        22
Environmental Impact Category .20
Environmental Safeguards .21
E. PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORY ..........................................................2..........2.............                     ... 22
F. PARTICIPATORY APPROACIH ...                                                                                                           22
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...                                                                                                            24
A. INIPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...                                                                                                      24
B. PROGRAM/PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .....................................24.............                                           ... 24
Costs of Privatizing the State Baniks ...                                                                                            25
Severance Payvments ...                                                                                                              25
Studies, Consultant Services, and Equipment ...                                                                                      25
Preparation of the proposed project began in October 1995. It is a dcpartmcntal shared-task, involving all
departmental divisions in the former LAI and was spearheaded by the former LAIPS. Specifically, the
project team includes: Messrs./Mmes.: Vetter (Task Manager), Dillinger. Dabak, Mendes Dos Santos
(LCSPR); Alber, Cellier, Liautad, Velcz (LCSFP); von Amsberg (LCC5C): Arauijo (LCOPR); Gray
(PSDDR); Ness, Zanetta (Consultants. LCSPR): Kelman (Consultant. LCSFP); Darche (Consultant,
TWUTD). The peer reviewers are Ms. Wallich (SRMPG) and Mr. Mossc (OPRPG).



iv
Grants .........................                                                                                    25
Other Incremental Costs of Reforms .........................                                                        26
High-Priority Investments .........................                                                                 26
Eligibilitv for Financing ......................... 2 7
C. PROCUREMFNT ...........................,                                                                           30
Procurement Afethods ...........................                                                                    30
D. DISBURSEMENT ............................                                                                           33
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ............................                                                                    35
F. PROGRAM SUPERVISION ...........................                                                                     35
G. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................                                                            3 5
Project Benefits ...........................                                                                        35
Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement ...........................                                                     36
Project Risks ...........................                                                                           36
ANNEXES:
A.   Privatization Matrix ................... 3 9
B.  Impact Matrix ...................                                                                               40
C.    Environmental Aspects of the Minas Gerais
State Privatization Project .41
D.    Lesson Learned and Previous Bank Experience
In the Sector .46
E.    Economic and Financial Evaluation of
Staff-Reduction Programs ...................                                                           49
F.   Participation ...................                                                                             55



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS STATE PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
1. COUNTRY AND STATE BACKGROUND
Country Context
1.1   Brazil's public sector is highly decentralized. Its government is comprised of the
federal government, 26 state governments, a federal district, and approximately 4,300
local governments or municipalities. Democratization and constitutional revisions in the
1980s increased the degree of resources under subnational control, and the degree of local
political autonomy in their allocation. Approximately half of budgetary public
expenditures are now made by subnational governments.
1.2   The performance of state and local governments is a source of concern for both
macro- and microeconomic reasons. The macroeconomic concern arises from state fiscal
behavior. Despite their fundamental importance to macroeconomic policy formulation and
implementation, state governments operate semi-independently of the federal government,
driven by their own tax bases, formula-driven transfers and borrowing. Periodic state
fiscal crises have prompted bailouts or emergency loans from the federal government.
Losses at state-owned banks pose a threat to the stability of the financial system. The
indebtedness of the Brazilian states has now reached crisis proportions, posing a threat to
macroeconomic stability.
1.3   From a microeconomic perspective, the concern is with the cost and quality of
services provided by subnational governments. Key infrastructure services, including
power and gas, as well as urban transport, are now provided by state-run monopolies.
Due to overstaffing and weak management, the coverage and reliability of these services
lags behind consumer demand. Subsidies to loss-making enterprises divert funding from
key state social services such as education, health, and public security.
Recent Country Economic Policies and Developments
1.4   The most prominent feature of Brazil's recent economic history has been chronic
and rising inflation. Monthly inflation peaks of 80 percent and 50 percent were reached in
1990 and 1994, respectively. Large fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits and an over-extended
public sector were major factors underlying this phenomenon. Inflation at these levels
slowed growth and investment, distorted the pattern of economic activities and



6
exacerbated the regressive distribution of income. Successive stabilization plans were
introduced in the 1980s--most of them with price and wage freezes --but these were
successful in containing prices only for very limited periods.
1.5   In mid- i 994, as the Minister of Finance in the prior (Itamar Franco)
administration, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso introduced the Real stabilization
plan (Plano Real). This plan included an initial fiscal and viage adjustment, an exchange
rate anchor (modified later in 1995, and made less rigid) and tight monetary policy. The
plan has had remarkable success. Annual inflation (CPI) fell from 2668 percent in 1994 to
7.9 percent currently. The positive inflation record appears set to continue in the medium
term. Although the current account deficit has increased (to 4.1 percent of GDP in 1997),
it remains manageable. Gross international reserves stand at US$60 billion (as of March
1998) or eleven months of imports of goods and services. This has occurred despite a
weakening of the current account deficit to an estimated 3.8 percent of GDP (first
quarter, 1997). Furthermore, foreign investment remains sltrong, largely triggered by the
government's strong privatization program.
1.6    The Plano Real had a major and somewhat unexpected impact on state finances,
and, consequently, on the consolidated finances of the government. A tightening of
monetary policy as part of the plan caused average annual real overnight interest rates to
rise to 25 percent in 1995, before falling to 18 percent in 1 996. As much of state debt
was either financed on variable terms (the interest rate on sitate bonds, for example, was
tied to the federal bond rate) or indexed to interest-rate-sensitive indicators, states
experienced rising costs of debt service and large increases in the size of outstanding
principal. State government debt now totals over US$108 billion (excluding arrears).
Ninety-eight percent of this is owed to federal government and its agents-the Central
Bank, Caixa Economica Federal, and the Banco do Brasil.
1.7    The Piano Real also removed a past mechanism of state internal financial control:
the ability to reduce real salaries and pensions via inflation. As a result, state governments
have found themselves paying unusually high salaries in real! terms. By 1996, many states
were undergoing fiscal crises. Even when they deferred paying much of their debt and
began cutting capital outlays drastically, they still had insufficient funds to pay wages.
Table 1. I gives the consolidated public sector deficit in Brazil during the 1991-97 period,
broken down by level of government. (Given the high level of inflation prevalent prior to
1995, the primary and operational measures of the deficit are more relevant for purposes
of comparison than the nominal deficit-the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement). The
distinct deterioration of state and local government finances after 1994 is notable.
1.8   In the long run, continuing high fiscal deficits financed by debt are incompatible
with stabilization. As a result, there is pressure to adjust. Since Brazil is fiscally
decentralized and the deficits are greater at the state level, adjustment is required at the
state, as well as the federal, level.



7
Table 1.1
Brazil - 1991-1997 Consolidated Public Sector Deficit
(Percent of GDP)
1991    1992      1993      1994     1995    1996    1997
Total nominal PSBR             24.5    44.2       58.1      44.3      7.2      5.9      5.9
Federal government and BCB     6.5     14.9      20.4      16.8      2.3      2.6      2.4
State and local governments    8.8     16.4      24.5      18.9      3.6      2.8      3.0
State enterprises              9.2     12.9      13.3       8.6      1.3      0.6      0.5
Total operational               -1.4     2.2      -0.3      -0.5    -4.9    -3.7    -4.1
Federal government and BCB     -0.3     0.8       0.0      -1.6     -1.7     -1.6    -1.5
State and local governments   -1.2      0.8      -0.2       1.0    -2.4      -1.8    -2.3
State enterprises              0.1      0.6      -0.0      -0.1    -0.9    -0.3        0.3
Total primary                   -2.6    -2.3      -2.6      -4.3     -0.4    -0.1        -.7
Federal government and BCB      -0.8    -1.3      -1.4      -3.0     -0.6      0.4      0.0
State and local governments   -1.2    -0.4       -0.6      -0.5     -0.8     -0.6     -0.8
State enterprises              -0.7    -0.6      -0.7      -0.8     -0.1      0.1      0.1
Source: Central Bank of Brazil and IMF estimates.
1.9    Past efforts to induce adjustment at the state level have not been wholly successful.
Constitutional amendments that would allow the state (and federal) governments to
dismiss excess staff and reduce pension benefits failed to pass in the 1997 session of
Congress. More recent efforts to place the states on a sound financial footing through
comprehensive debt workouts have not lived up to expectations. The federal government
has now signed comprehensive debt agreements with the two of the four largest debtor
states--Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais--and is in the process of negotiating similar
agreements with the other two, Rio de Janeiro and Rio Grande do Sul. Under the
agreements, the outstanding stock of state bonds is to be refinanced, at a rate between 6
and 7.5 percent for 30 years. To reduce the initial stock of debt, states will make an
upfront transfer of assets to the federal government equal to 10 to 20 percent of the value
of the refinanced debt. Debt service will be subject to a debt service cap equal to a fixed
percentage of revenues. Any amount above the cap will be capitalized into the outstanding
stock. These agreements will reduce the carrying costs of the debt in accrual terms. Due
to the rigidity of their other spending obligations, however, states are likely to continue to
run cash flow deficits. Growth in the stock of arrears, combined with the capitalization of
deferred interest, will slow the rate of reduction in the states' outstanding stock of debt.
Even if the states refrain from new contractual borrowing, they are unlikely to achieve a
sustainable level of debt until well into the next decade.
Bank Strategy
1.10   The proposed Minas Gerais State Privatization Project (SPP) is one of four state
reform projects for Brazil. As initially conceived, the projects had two objectives:
immediate fiscal adjustment and longer term structural reform. A crucial element of fiscal



8
adjustment was to be a workout of the debt owed by the states to the federal government.
It was expected that this workout, combined with tax increases, payroll cuts, and curbs on
investment at the state level, would reduce the states' debt service to an affordable level
within two to three years. As noted above, the debt agreements are unlikely to achieve
this target. In response, the loans have been restructured. While each project's policy
matrix will include a public expenditure review requirement--whose details will be spelled
out in the state's Privatization Program Letter-- SPPs will focus specifically on the
structural objective-the privatization or concession of state banks and enterprises. The
Board has already approved the first three state reform projects -- for Rio Grande do Sul
on March 3, 1997, Mato Grosso on June 12, 1997, and Rio de Janeiro on July 17, 1997.



2. THE MINAS GERAIS PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
Background
2.1   The State of Minas Gerais is located in southeastern Brazil, surrounded by the
states of Bahia, Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Espirito
Santo. The state is Brazil's second largest in terms of population, with 15.7 million
inhabitants. Over 75 percent of the population live in urban areas. The state capital, Belo
Horizonte, although founded only at the turn of the century, is the third largest population
center in Brazil.
2.2   Minas' economy is Brazil's second largest (tied with Rio de Janeiro). The state
GDP, at approximately US$70 billion, is larger than the economies of Colombia,
Venezuela, or Chile. Development is unevenly distributed within the state. Minas'
northern area has much in common with the poor northeast region of Brazil, and indeed is
treated legally as a part of the region the federal government targets for special programs.
The southern part of the state, however, is heavily industrialized and has more in common
with the affluent states of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Program Setting
2.3   The present Administration, which took office on January 1, 1995, inherited a
difficult financial situation, with large commitments to personnel and a heavy debt burden.
Minas' overextended civil service consumed 80 percent of state revenues in 1995. State
debt totaled Rs. $11.2 billion (as of December 31, 1995), over twice the level of state
revenues. Of this, nearly 60 percent consisted of high-cost state bonds, temporarily held
by the Central Bank. In 1996, the administration responded by freezing hiring, cutting
investments and taking advantage of the federal government's willingness to permit
interest on state bonds to be capitalized. These measures were insufficient to staunch the
flow of red ink, however. The state was forced to raise another Rs.$ 1.1 billion through
asset sales and borrowing, and finished the year with an unfunded budget deficit of nearly
Rs.$390 million, as depicted in Table 2.1 below
2.4   Performance in 1997 was much the same. Personnel spending consumed 93
percent of current revenues, due to salary increases granted during the year. Interest on
bonds continued to be capitalized, adding another Rs.$2.4 billion to the stock of debt. To
meet its cash flow requirements, the state raised Rs.$1.1 billion through asset sales and
borrowing, and finished the year with an unfunded budget deficit of Rs.$700 million.



10
Table 2.1 Minas Gerais Annual Receipts and Expenditure
(Rs.$  million)__           ___   _ _ _
1995   1996    1997   1998
actual  actual  actual  estim.
nominal nominal nominal  real
Current revenues                        5,252  5,237   5,523   5,634
tax revenues                            3,503  4,150   4,304   4,390
federal transfers                       892    843    945    963
other current revenues                  857    243    275    281
Current Expenditure                     8,186  8,333   8,860   7,165
personnel                               4,262  4,844   5,146   5,146
interest (accural basis)                2,564  2,723   2,961   1,251
other current expenditure               1,360   766    753    768
Capital expenditure                     738    671i    997    1,646
capital investment                      632    478      615    1,343
amortization                             106    198    382    302
Capital receipts                        2,683  3,383   3,553   1,390
Borrowing                                59    709      259    229
sale of assets                          278    412      894    283
interest capitalization                 2,346  2,262   2,400    878
Deficit                                 989    390l    781    1,786
2.5     The outlook for 1998 is only marginally better. In February 1998, the state reached
a debt refinancing agreement with the federal government. Under the agreement, the
state's bonds were converted to a 30-40 year contractual debt to the federal treasury. The
interest rate on the debt is subsidized and debt service as a whole is subject to a cap of 13
percent of current revenues. As part of the agreement, however, the state was required to
borrow Rs.$4. 1 billion to implement its financial sector reform. This increased the total
amount of state debt to nearly Rs.$20 billion. With the state now required to service debt
on a cash basis up to 13 percent of revenues, debt service payments will increase sharply
in cash terms. The state is therefore likely to continue to run cash flow deficits, as well as
accumulate additional debt due to capitalization of interest above the 13 percent ceiling.
Structural Reforms
2.6    In addition to its efforts at fiscal adjustment, the state: is pursuing a program of
structural reform. Under the program, the state will exit the commercial banking sector
entirely by selling its two deposit-taking banks and liquidating its savings and loan
company. Its development bank will be transformed into a development agency that
would lend only budgetary resources and those borrowed from national and international
development banks. Minas will also reduce its role in public utilities, by privatizing the
state gas company. In the highways sector, the state will award long-term concessions for
road maintenance to private firms. Each of these elements is described below.



11
A. PRIVATIZATioN/LTQUIDATION OF STATE BANKS
Overview
2.7   At the beginning of the state reform process, the state government had a large
presence in the state financial sector and owned two universal banks, a savings bank and a
development bank. At the current stage of the reform program, the state already privatized
one of its two universal banks, the Banco de Credito Real (CREDIREAL) in mid-1997.
The buyer was the country's fifth largest private bank, Banco de Credito Nacional (BCN)
which in turn was itself acquired in December 1997 by Bradesco, one of Brazil's leading
and prime-rated private banks with assets of US$43 billion as of June 1997. The other
universal bank, the Banco do Estado de Minas Gerais (BEMGE) is in an advanced stage
of privatization. The state savings bank is being liquidated and the state development bank
will be converted into a state development agency. To avoid possible contagion effects
and the consequent need for Central Bank intervention and support, this new development
agency would be prohibited from taking deposits. Any available budgetary resources
would be the only permissible funding.
2.8   The need for drastic reform in the state financial sector became pressing with the
1994 Real Plan and the subsequent fall of inflation. Although the entire banking system
was affected by the loss of inflation income, state banks had particular difficulties in
adjusting because of high operating cost structures, low quality loan portfolios and few
earnings alternatives. The State of Minas Gerais recognized that, under more stable
macro-economic conditions, it had no choice but to choose a more radical road of reform,
namely to privatize CREDIREAL and BEMGE even though both banks have long been
used to finance the state government, have long-standing roots, and provided financial
services all across the state. Less incisive bank restructuring efforts, such as reducing
branches and personnel and cleansing loan portfolios, had been underway before 1994.
2.9   To aid state bank restructuring/privatization, the federal government instituted in
1996 a program of favorable long-term loans (M&dida Provis6ria 1514) provided states
were willing to either restructure or privatize their state banks. Other advantages of this
financing included the inclusion of privatization costs such as consulting and investment
banking fees and other restructuring expenditures such as early retirement and pension
liabilities. In addition to the restructuring of banks in Minas, this federal financial aid
facilitated the privatization of the Rio de Janeiro state bank (BANERJ) and the
restructuring of several banks in other states such as in Sao Paulo (BANESPA) and Mato
Grosso (BEMAT).
The BEMGE Privatization Strategy
2.10 BEMGE was founded in 1967 to support economic development in the state. As
of December 1996 it had about US$2.6 billion in assets. It acts mostly as a universal bank



12
providing a gamut of financial services to the small and medium productive sector. As of
June 1997, it had about 480 branches, mostly outside the capital city of Belo Horizonte,
and about 7,100 staff. Financial performance has been poor with large losses in 1996 that
caused negative retums on assets and equity. The decision to privatize BEMGE was taken
in 1997, in agreement with the federal government and in exchange for financial aid under
Medida Provis6ria 1514.
2.11   To aid privatization, restructuring measures are under-way in BEMGE, such as
closure of branches and staff reductions, along with increased efforts to recover loans and
investments in information technology. However, the bank's asset quality remains
precarious with a high concentration in real estate loans (38 percent of total), a significant
amount of renegotiated loans and generally a high level of non-performing loans. As of
June 1997, BEMGE's capital adequacy was below regulatory requirements.
2.12  BEMGE is currently in the advanced stages of privatization. The state is currently
accepting pre-qualification materials from potential bidders. It expects to close this phase
of by the end of May. According to the current timetable, the state then plans on issuing
auctioning documents for BEMGE with the minimum price for the bank on June 26, 1998.
The auction would then take place in July 1998.
Benefits
2.13  The main benefit to the state for privatizing its banks is the avoidance of continued
re-capitalizations which become necessary as the state banks have lost the fabric of
dynamic and market-oriented institutions. Shifting away from the financial sector will
allow the state to re-focus its resources on its basic priorities of health, education, and
poverty reduction. From a financial market perspective, the main advantage of
privatization is the prospect of providing increased and a greater variety of financial
services including resumption of lending to the productive sector.
B. PRIVATIZATION OR CONCESSION OF PUBLIC ENTITIES
Highways
Background
2.14  The Road Department of the State of Minas Gerais (DER/MG) is responsible for a
highway network of approximately 20,000 km. The maintenance of about 4,000 km of
federal highways is in the process of being delegated to DER"MG by the federal
government. About 50 percent of the state's 20,000 km of roads are paved. Based on a
1993 survey, 14 percent of the paved network is in good condition, 64 percent is in fair
condition and 22 percent is in poor condition. The average daily traffic on the state's
paved network ranges from 500 to 2,000 vehicles, with a mean value of 1,500 vehicles per
day. On the 10,000 km of the unpaved network, traffic volumes are generally in the range
of 100 to 1,000 vehicles a day.



13
Table 2.2
Roads in the State of Minas Gerais, by Jurisdiction and Type
Jurisdiction, Paved (I;m)  |Not Paved (krn)  |Total (km)|
Federal              9,227             696         9,923
State               10,124           11,125       21,249
Municipal             847           201,179      202,016
Total               20,198          213,300      233,498
(source: Diretoria De ManutenVdo, DER/MG, 1996)
2.15  Unlike many Brazilian state road departments, DER/MG has a relatively long
tradition of effective road management. Over the last 15 to 20 years, the condition of the
road system and traffic characteristics as well as construction and maintenance unit costs
have been regularly monitored. As a result, several management systems-including those
for pavement, maintenance, vehicle weights and costs-have been established and are
actively used in supporting management decision-making. DER/MG has also begun to
reduce its reliance on force-account for routine road maintenance; nearly 50 percent of
routine maintenance operations is now being performed by private contractors. Most
maintenance contracts are awarded yearly and are paid on the basis of unit costs.
2.16  Nevertheless, the state's road system is not only suffering from under-funding, but
damages resulting from the severe rains of 1996-1997. Addressing the entire backlog of
major maintenance work would cost the state about US$75 million per year over the next
three years. Annual resourdes allocated in 1994-95 amount to only half this value, they fell
to about US$12 million in 1996. The state's actual needs for financing of road works and
maintenance outpaced the earmarked funds in the 1997 budget by 78 percent and 85
percent, respectively. This situation will persist, if not worsen, in 1998, as the federal
government will soon be transferring an additional 4,000 km of highways to the state.
Road Concession Program
2.17  The state seeks to provide adequate maintenance and rehabilitation to roads within
its network by granting concessions for strategic segments of roads. The state envisions
the concession program as a means to improve main highways (federal and state), to
generate toll revenues, and,to pay for improvements to economically important feeder
roads. The concessions program will allow the state to improve its main highways,
generate toll revenues, and pay for improvements to feeder roads. The state has already
identified groups of state and federal roads that have the highest potential for
concessioning. In return for the rights to toll revenues, individual concession agreements
would require the concessionaire to expand road capacity, rehabilitate, and periodically
maintain the concessioned highway segment, depending on existing road conditions. The
Bank's proposed Minas Gerais State Highway Management Project will provide continued
technical support for road concessions. Federal Highway Rehabilitation and
Decentralization Project (Loan 4188-BR) will finance engineering design and civil works
for rehabilitation of federal highway sections to be transferred to the state.



14
2.18  During the first phase of the concession study, DER/MG identified high-priority
projects; tariff policies; criteria to award concessions; and construction, operating, and
maintenance standards. Based on a Road Expenditure Program for the Years 1995-2000,
DER/MG studied some 6,500 km in 21 groupings of federal and state highways to arrive
at the most financially viable segments to be offered for concession.
2.19  Based on this analysis, the state calculated that of the 21 segments identified, 13
groups comprising 4,259 km of highway could provide concessionaires with Financial
Internal Rates of Return (FIRRs) over 12 percent. Nine of these segments had potential
FIRRs around 18 percent. The tariffs required to support these returns are, on average,
US$4.00 for four lanes and US$3.00 for dual lane per 100 km of highway. The total
value of the improvements for all 9 groups of roads is about US$1.7 billion expended over
the 24 years of the concession. These nine road groupings, including two of the first three
concession projects, can support the maintenance of 1,000 km of feeder roads in addition
to the main highway segments and still maintain FfRRs over 18 percent.
2.20  Of these 9 groups, the state has identified three initial concessions. The results of
the study are currently being used to develop the technical and financial sections of the
bidding documents for the selected highway segments. The two concessions included in
the Privatization Matrix, totaling 460 km, will be granted for maintenance and
rehabilitation, but not any new construction. These two concessions are:
*  State Roads MG-010 and MG-424 including the segments from Belo Horizonte-
Vespasiano-Aeroporto de Confins - Pedro Leopoldo - Sete Lagoas: 76 kms.
*  State Roads MG-050 including segments from Belo Horizonte-Juatuba-Divin6polis-
Formiga-Passos-Sao Sebastiao do Paraiso-to the Division toward Sao Paulo: 385
kms.
These two concessions involve maintenance and rehabilitation, but not any new
construction to increase capacity.
2.21  In return for rights to the toll revenues, the individual concession agreements will
require the concessionaire to expand capacity, rehabilitate, or merely overlay and
periodically maintain the concessioned highway segment, depending on traffic and existing
road conditions. The study results will also be used to determine the construction,
operating, environmental, and maintenance specifications to be included in the bidding
documents. These specifications will be monitored to evaluate the concessionaire's
compliance with the contract.
2.22  The state established a pre-qualification and bidding process to award the road
concessions. Firms were first evaluated on technical qualifications, and on their financial
capacity to undertake the work. Considerable weight was also given to the maintenance
of feeder roads, as they currently receive very little maintenance. A public hearing took
place to disseminate information about the concession program, and over 300 people were
in attendance. The final selection criteria for the concessions will be based on the number



15
of kilometers the bidder proposes to maintain, in addition to the concessioned highway
segment. The tariff will be fixed and the winning firm will be that which proposes to
maintain the largest section of feeder roads.
Benefits
2.23  The state's proposed road concession program will have positive economic and
fiscal impacts. By reducing the backlog of road maintenance and improving the conditions
of the highway network, the state will significantly diminish user vehicle operating
expenditures. The state estimates that during the first several years of the program, users
should reduce their annual vehicle operating costs by approximately 15 percent. By the
fifth year of the concession program the first three road concessions will carry about
79,000 average daily vehicles. This will result in a significant annual operating savings.
2.24  By including improvements to the access roads that feed the main highways, the
concession program will have a significant impact on regional economic development.
Despite their small size, the two concessions included in the Bank's program, MG-
010/MG-424 and MG-050, will have a potentially large impact on the state's economy.
By improving these roads, transportation time and costs will ultimately be reduced for the
steel, cement, and dairy industries located along these highways. In addition the
concession of MG-050 would also reduce costs for through traffic between the state and
Sao Paulo. The other planned concession for federal roads BR-262, BR-381 and BR-458
will improve the conditions of the highway serving Minas' steel industry. Road
improvements should reduce travel times-and therefore, costs-for trucks serving the
steel plants as well as interstate truck traffic moving goods between northeastern and
southeastern states.
Gas Sector/GASMIG
Background
2.25 The state electricity company, CEMIG, established GASMIG in 1983. CEMIG is
GASMIG's main shareholder, with 95 percent of its voting shares. At present, GASMIG's
market is comprised of 26 industrial users concentrated in the Belo Horizonte and Juiz de
Fora metropolitan areas. Annual revenues in 1997 totaled US$24.2 million. The market
for gas could be expanded, based either on domestic supply or the proposed Brazil-Bolivia
pipeline. In order to meet GASMIG's potential, a substantial increase in both supply and
investment will be needed.
2.26 GASMIG's supply comes from domestic sources provided by a domestic producer
from the Campos Field, Rio de Janeiro. The gas is then piped from the State of Rio de
Janeiro to Minas. GASMIG currently has only 37 km of pipeline currently in operation.
With adequate investment, the pipeline could increase to an estimated total distribution of
1,000,000 m3/day in 1998 (based solely on domestic supply), and to 1,700,000 m3/day by
the year 2000 when gas from Bolivia would become available.



16
2.27   GASMIG's market is comprised of industrial users. Over the medium term,
GASMIG's market may remain solely industrial, as gas is not yet an attractive alternative
for residential customers. Industrial consumers in Minas currently use a variety of fiJel
sources, including LPG, diesel, coke, wood, pulverized charcoal, and petroleum coke. In
order to attract these consumers, GASMIG will need to adjust prices considerably in order
to penetrate the market. Once sufficient gas volumes are available from the Brazil-Bolivia
pipeline, GASMIG could also begin to attract the high-value electricity industries.
2.28   A quick analysis of GASMIG's financial situation shows that GASMIG is a highly
profitable company. The company is largely efficient, and currently has only 40
employees. Even if GASMIG were to expand its market considerably, the total number of
employees would not need to be increased dramatically. Based on a US$1/Million British
Thermal Units profit margin for GASMIG, the annual operating cost of the pipeline is
estimated at about 3 percent of investments. Profits before taxes are estimated at about
US$10 million by the year 2000. GASMIG should also have a positive cashflow for 12 of
the next 15 years.
The GASMIG Concession Program
2.29  Despite GASMIG's potential, the state has been unable to invest the needed
capital to expand its market and distribution capacity. Therefore, the state decided to
either sell or concession GASMIG to private investors. Legislation authorizing the sale
was approved by the State Assembly on May 29, 1996. Consultants prepared a detailed
study of GASMIG that presented the state with comprehensive options for potential sale
or concession. The state intends to have the new regulatory framework in place prior to
concessioning of GASMIG.
2.30  The consultants estimated that an additional US$85.2 million will be needed to
expand its distribution capacity in the industrial areas of Tronco Norte and Vale do Ago.
The net cashflow before taxes strongly indicates that the concessionaire could finance the
expansion and still receive an adequate return on equity (i.e., about a 15 percent return).
The study will also indicate the best methods of attracting new industrial customers.
2.31   Transportation and distribution of natural gas in Minas Gerais will be awarded as a
concession for the exclusive provision of these services to consumers in a well-defined
geographical area. The concessionaire will negotiate directly and enter into a gas sale
purchase contract with suppliers. The concessionaire agreement will stipulate required
investments, which were in part determined in the consultants' study. Most likely, a fully
flexible price regime to consumers based on price of substitutes will be adopted. The
concessioned services will be regulated by an independent entity, which will be in place
before any bidding for the concession takes place. The regulatory agency will ensure
compliance by the concessionaire with the terms of the concessions (i.e., investments,
environment, quality of service, and appropriate pricing to consumers).



17
Benefits
2.32  Granting a concession for gas distribution to the private sector in a geographical
area of the state will reduce the state's capital outlays to GASMIG while ensuring that the
necessary investments for market expansion are made. This would have a significant
impact in terms of natural gas market expansion, as it would compete with other fuels
among the industrial and residential consumers as well as power generation. In effect, the
expansion of gas supply-within the proper tariff structure-could lead to an overall
reduction in production costs and result in a more competitive industry based in the state.
2.33  From an environmental perspective, an increase in the use of gas could lead to
overall reductions in air emissions (CO2, SO2, NO2 and particulate matter) from "dirty"
fuels, such as high sulfur fuel oil, diesel oil, charcoal and fuelwood, now being used by
industry in general and the steel industry in particular. The adoption of gas-fired plants
could also reduce the state's reliance on hydroelectric power and provide flexibility during
dry seasons.
C. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.34  To regulate concessions in the various public utility sectors, including roads and
gas, the state will establish a new regulatory agency. Consistent with the approach taken
by state governments in many other federal systems, and based on Brazil's current
expeience with federal and state regulatory agencies, the state proposes to establish a
regulatory agency with responsibility for all public services within the competence of the
state. The aim will be to create a small, strong and professional agency that fosters the
development of the requisite technical expertise and enjoys a high degree of stability and
insulation from day-to-day political pressures. The agency would operate in a transparent
manner, and would be funded from levies on regulated firms. The agency's detailed
responsibilities may vary from sector to sector, and will be defined through concession
agreements and possibly augmented by sector-specific decrees. It is envisaged that the
agency's core responsibilities will include administering tariff adjustment rules, enforcing
the concession contracts, and supervising concessionaires' compliance with regulatory
norms. Relationships between the agency, state secretaries and responsible environmental
and other authorities will be very carefully defined, and appropriate mechanisms put in
place to ensure effective coordination and implementation. The state has recently
submitted a law to the State Assembly proposing the creation of this regulatory body.



3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVE
3.1    The project's main objective is to support the state's privatization and concession
program, making the state government less vulnerable to losses on banking operations and
more efficient in the delivery of gas and highway maintenance services. The project will
also support social sector grants to mitigate the social costs of adjustment, as well as high
priority road and school maintenance and rehabilitation work to ensure that these physical
assets do not deteriorate during the adjustment period.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2    The project consists of the carrying out of the key actions linked to the project
objective. The policy matrix in Annex A sets forth these actions (with a completion
timetable). These conditions cover: (i) privatization of the state banks (CREDIREAL and
BEMGE); (ii) sale or concessioning of GASMIG; (iii) concessioning of two segments of
state roads with a total of 460 kilometers; (iv) establishment of an adequate regulatory
framework for the private provision of public services; and (v) fiscal performance
consistent with the capital spending program and fiscal indicators cited in the state's
Privatization Program Letter.
3.3    The loan will disburse against two time-slices of eligible reform costs once the
conditions for each time-slice (see policy matrix) are met; the first time-slice would be for
US$100 million, and the second US$70 million. The first time-slice disbursement of
US$100 million would be released promptly after loan effectiveness since actions required
for disbursement have been implemented prior to Board presentation. The time-slice
disbursement of US$70 million--planned for about August 1998, would be released
following a positive review of the second time-slice actions. The conditions for Board
presentation (and release of the first time-slice) were: (a) sale of the state's ownership in
CREDIREAL; (b) formal announcement of the state's intention to sell BEMGE; (c)
contracting of a study to define the structure of the gas sector, its regulatory structure,
and the model for concessioning GASMIG; (d) definition of global strategy and timetable
for road concessions; and (e) submission of the state's Privatization Program Letter. The
conditions for the release of the second time-slice are: (a) sale of the state's shares in
BEMGE; (b) sale or concession of GASMIG; (c) award of two road concessions for 460
km; (d) establishment of an adequate regulatory system and (e) compliance with fiscal
performance and major capital investment targets as specified in the Privatization Program
Letter.



19
Table 3.1 Fiscal Performance Indicators
1996     1997   1998   1999   2000
growth of revenue (real)                             -2%      2%     2%      2%
personnel as % revenue                      93%      93%    91%    90%    88%
capital spending as % revenue                9%      11%    24%    15%    15%
total debt service as % revenue             56%      61%    28%    28%    28%
of which financed by capitalization       43%       43%    16%    11%    11%
operational deficit as % revenue           -68%     -72%   -51 %   -40%   -39%
stock of debt (EOY) as % revenue           278%     373%   412%   444%   474%
stock of contractual debt as % revenue     240%     322%   330%   329%   328%
primary surplus as % revenue               -16%     -18%   -29%   -18%   -16%
3.4     Public Expenditure Review  The project will monitor the state's fiscal
performance during 1998. The aim is to ensure--since project funds are fungible-- that the
increase in debt arising from the Bank loan is compensated by improvements in other
aspects of the state's overall fiscal position. Unfortunately, as noted earlier, it will be
difficult to achieve major improvements in the state's fiscal position. As shown in Table
3.1, barring unforseen circumstances, the state is expected to run large operational deficits
and accumulated increasing stocks of debt even after the federal debt agreement goes into
effect.
3.5    Fiscal performance. Two types of fiscal parameters will be monitored. The first
refers to the use of privatization proceeds. The state will be required to use the proceeds
from the sale of CEMIG and BEMGE to reduce its debt to the federal government.
Table 3.2.
Major Investment Expenditures in 1998
(Rs.$ million of Jan. 98)
Total        Of which     Of which
disbursements  financed from    financed
debt     from revenue
______ _____ and  grants
Industrial development fund                                          340.5                      340.5
Highways                                                             529.6           26.0       503.6
ProQualidade (IBRD-financed education program)                        95.5           76.0        19.5
SOMMA (IBRD-financed environment program)                             98.7           41.9        56.8
Health programs                                                       20.5                       20.5
Strategic industrial development fund                                140.0                      140.0
PROSAM (IBRD)                                                         61.3           43.8        17.5
Secretaria de Obras                                                    9.7                        9.7
Jaiba                                                                 48.1           41.5         6.6
Total                                                               1343.8          229.3      1114.5
3.6     Investment Program. The second monitoring indicator will be the size and quality
of the state's investment program. Here, the intent is to encourage the state to confine its
spending on major capital works to projects with clear economic or social justifications. A



20
spending program, identifying projects and financing sources, was agreed at negotiations
and is cited in the state's Privatization Program Letter. (See Table 3.2.) Prior to the
second time-slice disbursement, the Bank will review the state's investment spending
during 1998.
3.7    Compliance with these two conditions will be reviewed prior to the disbursement
of the second time-slice. If the state violates either condition, the Bank would have the
option of suspending the time-slice until or unless remedial actions were taken.
C. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.8    The privatization project consists of reforms that are inherently difficult to reverse.
Once sold, banks and public utilities are difficult to repurchase. However, the
establishment of a transparent and fair regulatory framework for the private provision of
public services may be vulnerable in its first years of operation, as it represents a radical
change in the way the government has delivered public services so far. In addition, the
state's regulatory framework will require periodic adjustments to make it compatible with
the framework the federal government is slowly developing.
Lessons Learned From Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
3.9    The Bank has extensive, world-wide experience in the reform of the public sector
through SALs and SECALs and with regional subnational development projects in Brazil,
Argentina and in other countries. Key lessons (detailed in Annex D) are as follows. First,
projects must focus on a few significant reforms that are hard to reverse--such as
privatization of public enterprises and banks, and reforms passed via legislation--and can
be fully implemented during the mandate of the administration in power. Second, project
design and implementation arrangements must be flexible enough to fully achieve targeted
reform objectives. Third, reform projects for subnational governments can place very high
(sometimes unsustainable) supervision costs on Bank staff. Thus, project implementation
should seek to reduce supervision costs by including as much private sector participation
as feasible in such areas as auditing, procurement, and verification of compliance with
eligibility requirements. Finally, the initiative to reform should be entirely the state
government's. The Bank can provide financial and technical support, but should never set
the basic policy objectives.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental Impact Category
3.10   The proposed project would finance reforms that would have neutral or beneficial
environmental impacts. The program will likely improve environmental performance
through better environmental oversight of current state enterprises. The project has been
classified as Category B regarding its expected environmental impact. Annex C reviews



21
environmental problems and policies in Minas Gerais and provides a detailed discussion of
environmental aspects of the project.
Environmental Safeguards
3.11   The environmental obligations of the new owner/operator in the gas and roads
sectors would be determined before the time of sale/concessioning in order to: (a) reduce
the uncertainty for potential private sector investors about their environmental obligations;
and (b) allow improvements in environmental performance of the affected operations.
Following an environmental audit, and still before the time of concessioning or sale,
agreement would be reached among the responsible entities on environmental performance
targets including the time and the responsible party for remedying the identified problems.
3.12  Gas Distribution. Before the time of sale or concessioning of the gas distribution
company GASMIG, the consultants, who are assisting the state in the preparation of the
privatization would carry out the following tasks:
(a)   a review of the environmental regulatory framework and monitoring and
enforcement capacity of the responsible agencies with respect to safety and
environmental issues in the gas sector, resulting in recommendations for
improvements and strengthening activities;
(b)   an environmental audit of GASMIG, covering a physical inspection of the
facilities, including safety aspects (checking pipelines and other systems for
corrosions and leaks) and management of wastes (condensates) from the
system with recommendations for necessary measures taken, their time,
cost and responsible party; and
(c)   a review and recommendations for necessary improvements of procedures
and activities that affect system safety (such as procedures for maintenance
and repairs).
3.13   Highway Maintenance Concessions. The highway maintenance concessions to
be awarded under the project are for normal maintenance activities, such as repaving, but
do not include widening, realignment, extension or construction of new roads, with the
exception of the widening of a short stretch of highway where the right of way has been
acquired, no resettlement issues or significant environmental problems exist, and
earthworks have already been completed. The concession contracts would contain clauses
to ensure the application of sound environmental practices by the concessionaires. The
consultants currently preparing the concessioning of road maintenance would perform the
following tasks before the time of concessioning:
(a)   a review of the environmental regulatory framework and enforcement
capacity as it relates to highway maintenance activities and
recommendations for their improvements;



22
(b)   preparation of proposals for concession contract clauses that would ensure
sound environmental practices by the concessionaire; and
(c)   compilation of the technical information required to assess the measures
necessary for regularization of roads that do not yet have an environmental
license.
3.14  The project will also finance high-priority road conservation and rehabilitation.
Road maintenance works do not require an environmental license. However, it was agreed
that the road maintenance contracts would include explicit clauses ensuring the
environmentally acceptable behavior of the contractors (covering issues such as
construction wastes, construction camp management and equipment maintenance). The
contracts would be enforced by DER/MG. In addition, the conitracts would require a valid
environmental license for extraction and disposal sites, borrow pits, and asphalt plants.
These licenses are issued and enforced by the Fundac,o Estadual de Politica Ambiental
(FEAM).
E. PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORY
3.15  The primary objective category of the project is "economic management" (EA), as
it seeks to improve the overall performance of the state's public sector.
F. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
3.16  Minas Gerais is a state with a long history of public participation in governance
and policy-making. In 1993, the state introduced a system of public fora (audiencias
piiblicas) which were designed to be a direct link between the voting public and the state
legislative assembly. The main objective of the public fora is to identify regional
developmental and budget priorities for use in developing the state's annual budget. Since
its initial success in 1993, the public fora have been held yearly-with some minor
improvements. Apart from the public fora, the government has been actively debating the
major elements of its state Reform Program in the state assembly and in the press, through
articles signed by the Governor, Vice-Governor, and Cabinet Secretaries.
3.17  When designing certain aspects of the state's reform program (e.g., severance
payments and funding of pension liabilities), the state worked with stakeholders to
pinpoint potential areas of conflict to help arrive at mutually acceptable agreements. The
downsizing programs that have been undertaken by both of the state banks--CREDIREAL
and BEMGE--include both voluntary and involuntary dismissals, as well as incentive
programs for early retirement programs. Due to the problems that arose during the
privatization efforts in other states, the officials of both banks worked directly with
employees to design an attractive, while financially viable, benefits package.
3.18  The two banks set up programs to provide information and counseling on the
benefits of the different voluntary programs to all eligible employees. The cost of the
involuntary dismissal programs was based on the provisions made under Brazilian law. In



23
calibrating the severance payments for the voluntary dismissals and incentive programs for
early retirement, each enterprise took into account obligations toward employees,
applicable laws including labor laws and agreements, prevailing labor market conditions,
and the affordability and replicability of the package.
3.19  In addition, employees opting for withdrawal could participate in training
programs and career counseling. For example, in BEMGE, each participant was eligible
for 20 hours of coursework in a wide variety of fields, plus 5 hours of individual
counseling. The state federation of industries also provided courses on opening a small
business through its training branch.
3.20  In addition, the adoption of a regulatory agency as a function of the privatizations
and granting of concessions under the State Reform Program will create a new avenue for
community participation. This will be an important step, as the current system allows
public monopolies to virtually regulate themselves. While many branch offices of state
utilities currently have customer service offices, they are not effectively regulated by the
state. Instead, they regulate themselves, with proactive input from municipalities. The
adoption of an independent regulatory agency will ensure that consumers are informed of
their rights, and are treated in a fair, efficient, and transparent manner.



4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.1   Minas' State Privatization Program is being implemented under the Vice-
Governor's direction and the Planning Secretariat's coordination. Given the breadth of
the program, several participating agencies are involved. The state's privatization council
(Comissao de DesestatizaVdo) is specifically coordinating the gas sector privatization
program. The Budget Office of the Planning Secretariat works with the Finance
Secretariat on budget, public finance, and debt issues. The Finance Secretariat is
managing the CREDIREAL and BEMGE bank privatization for the state. DER/MG and
the Planning Secretariat are working on the road concessions.
4.2   Project supervision will be coordinated by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within the Planning Secretariat that will focus on: (a) continuous monitoring of progress in
the different reform areas; (b) evaluation of compliance with performance benchmarks
prior to release of time-slice disbursements; and (c) compliance with evaluation,
procurement, disbursement and auditing agreements which are reflected in a Project
Manual (see para. 4.3). Each of the secretariats participating in the reform program or
using loan resources will name representatives necessary for reform monitoring and/or
operations (e.g., procurement, accounting, disbursement, and auditing issues). The
general coordinator of the PIU is the Secretary of Planning. The PIU would have an
Executive Coordinator that would handle day-to-day operations and two full-time senior
staff members, one of whom would be responsible for monitoring the reform program and
the other who would handle operational matters and necessary support staff.
4.3   To assure adequate reform monitoring and also that subprojects are adequately
evaluated and the procurement thereunder performed in strict conformity with Bank
guidelines, a concise Project Manual has been prepared with detailed rules and procedures
for subproject evaluation, procurement, disbursement, accounting, reporting, and auditing.
State agencies identified in the Project Manual will be responsible for procurement,
disbursement, and accounting for each of the different activities with review as also
specified in the Project Manual.
B. PROGRAM/PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.4   The total cost of the reform program and of the project supporting it is shown in
Table 4.1 below; it is estimated at about US$1.4 billion. Only t'he items listed below in
para. 4.14 - 4.20 would be eligible for Bank financing in the time-slices; table 4.3 details
the amounts to be financed by the Bank. The program's main components are:



25
Costs of Privatizing the State Banks
4.5   Privatization of the two state banks, CREDIREAL and BEMGE, with losses
estimated at US$500 million as well as significant pension liabilities (US$225 million).
This cost to the state is being financed by a federal government loan.
Severance Payments
4.6   Severance payments (US$316 million) for the voluntary departure and incentives
for early retirement programs for both the state's Direct Administration, as well as state-
owned enterprises and banks. Of this total, US$76 million was financed by the federal
government for the downsizing of the Direct Administration.
Studies, Consultant Services, and Equipment
4.7   Studies and consultant work have been quite important in the preparation of the
reform program and will continue to be during its implementation, as will be training and
equipment. The reform program includes the following elements:
(a)   The costs of modernizing the Finance Secretariat (US$26 million, including
US$25 million of financing from the IDB's National Fiscal Administration
Program), as well as overhauling the Secretariat's financial management
system involving purchases of equipment and software, and retraining of
current employees.
(b)   Other reform costs that will be eligible for Bank financing under the
project, including reform-related studies, consultant services (including
auditing) training, and equipment (e.g., computers and software), totaling
US$5 million.
4.8   A pre-privatization/concession gas study was financed under the Municipal
Development and Environment Management Loan (Ln. 3639-BR); the study cost
approximately US$I million. A number of studies aimed at facilitating reform
implementation and identifying further sector reforms will be funded with resources from a
loan from the federal agency FINEP (US$ 10 million).
Grants
4.9   These include transfers to municipalities and private institutions. They cover
incremental expenditures for early childhood, public health, sewerage and basic education.
These expenditures are justified on the grounds of alleviating the social impact that the
reform program may have, particularly arising from the financial duress that the public
sector will experience in its quest for fiscal balance. Other transfers to municipalities and
private institutions for social services, such as early childhood development, public health,
sewerage and basic education could be financed if agreed by the Bank. Included in this



26
category are such costs as decentralization and outsourcing of health services (US$131
million):
(a) Health decentralization (US$60 million) to municipal consortia.
(b) Emergency health care services contracted out to private hospitals (US$45
million). Incremental recurrent costs of outsourcing emergency services in the Belo
Horizonte Metropolitan Region on a declining basis.
(c) Family preventive medicine program (US$26 million) Incremental recurrent
payments to municipalities on a declining basis. The Family Preventive Health
Care program transfers to municipalities the responsibility for providing
preventive health care services.
Other Incremental Costs of Reforms
4.10   These are defined as direct (i.e., non-transfer) recurrent costs incurred by the state
government in connection with the reform program (e.g., salaries of additional tax
auditors), estimated at US$8 million.
High-Priority Investments
4.11  In addition to the reforms, the project will include high-priority investments during
the adjustment period:
(a) Road maintenance and rehabilitation works (US$50 million)
(b) Decentralization to school associations for small matintenance and repair, and to
buy basic school furniture, and equipment (US$89.0 million).
(c) other maintenance and rehabilitation acceptable to the Bank (e.g., school
maintenance too large to be done by the school associations).
4.12  Less than six percent of the total project cost is foreign. Careful appraisal of the
Brazil's overall development program shows that this level of local cost financing is
needed for this high-priority project'. Local costs can be financed by a state government
out of budgetary savings, borrowing from the federal government (which will be
eventually financed out of a drawdown of Brazil's reserves), or borrowing from abroad.
In the present context, budgetary savings are not available. Further borrowing from the
federal government will not be consistent with the overall stabilization program. This
leaves financing local costs through foreign borrowing as the most appropriate
mechanism. These estimates do not include estimated expenditures by foreign firms that
might eventually bid on the concessions and privatizations of Minas' reform program.
I     This complies with the Memorandum on Financing Local Expenditures. April 5, 1996, para. 4,
page 17.



27
Table 4.1: Estimated Program Cost
(in US$ million)
Categories                                             Local    Foreign   Total     Foreign
as % of
total cost
Direct Costs of Reform
Total Losses from Privatization of CREDIREAL and BEMGE     725.0               725.0     0%
'Downsizing' of the work force
Direct Administration                                     76.0                76.0      0%h
Enterprises and Banks                                    240.0               240.0      0%
Reform-related studies, consultants, training, and equipment
Modernization of the Secretary of the Treasury              11.0     15.0       26.0    58%
Reform Studies financed by FINEP                             8.0      2.0       10.0    20%
Other studies, consultants, training, and equipment          3.0      2.0        5.0    40%
Incremental Grants
Health Service Outsourcing and Family Preventative Medicine  71.0               71.0     0%
Municipal Health Consortia                                  25.0     35.0       60.0    58%
Incremental Recurrent Costs of Reform on a Declining Basis
Incremental Salaries of Reform Program                       8.0                 8.0
High Priority Investments During the Reform Period
Road Maintenance                                            40.0     11.0       50.0    22%
Decentralization of school maintenance and equipment        89.0                89.0     0%
Total Project Costs                                         1296.0      65.0    1360.0      5%
4.13   The plan in Table 4.2 shows that the Bank financing accounts for 12.5 percent of
the total reform cost.
Table 4.2 Project Financing Plan
(in US$ million)      _
Source                       Amount      Percentage
IBRD                                                      170.0       12.5%
National Fiscal Administration Program (IDB Project)       25.0        1.8%
State of Minas Gerais                                     354.0       26.0%
Federal Government                                        811.0       59.6%
Total                                                    1360.0      100.0%
Eligibility for Financing
4.14   To attain its ambitious reform objectives, implementation must focus on the reform
efforts per se, rather than on subcomponent evaluation, procurement and disbursement
procedures. Thus, in this case, every effort has been made to keep evaluation procedures,
procurement and disbursement as simple and cost effective as possible by selecting those
items for which evaluation, procurement and disbursement would be done simply and
quickly at very low cost.
4.15   To this end, although all of the costs included in Table 4.1 are legitimate project
costs of the reform program, only the following costs would be financed by the project (as
shown in Table 4.3):



28
severance costs for workers leaving state banks and enterprises being privatized or
restructured, including BEMGE and CREDIREAL. Only those costs not being financed
by the federal government would be eligible for Bank financing.
studies, consultants, and equipment, especially those necessary for reform implementation.
incremental grants for social programs associated with the decentralization of health
services, primary and secondary education, and other such programs acceptable to the
Bank.
other incremental costs of reform implementation on a declining basis.
high priority road, and other maintenance and rehabilitation outlays.
The eligibility criteria for each of these components are included in the Project Manual.
Severance Payments
4.16   The loan will finance severance payments only for employees of state enterprises
and banks being restructured or privatized, including those for dismissal and voluntary
departure and early retirement of redundant employees of C'REDIREAL and BEMGE, as
well as other enterprises that meet the criteria below. Severance programs for the Direct
Administration, as well as state enterprises and banks being liquidated will not be eligible
for financing. In all cases, the financing of severance payments will met the criteria
established by the Bank and included in the Project Manual (for details, including a
financial and economic cost-benefit analysis, see Annex E). The following discussion of
compliance with Bank criteria covers the state banks listed above:
(a) Impact on Productivity. The layoffs were initiated only after careful studies to
develop a strategy to improve their productivity and, therefore, their selling prices.
The downsizing program was one element of these strategies.
(b) Measutres to Avoid Reversal. As these banks are being privatized, there is no problem
with reversal, unless the state rehires the employees who are dismissed. Although the
state cannot deny these employees who leave their constitutionally guaranteed right to
participate in public examinations for state employment, the banks felt that
withdrawing employees would not normally be interested in entry level positions that
would be offered in public examinations. Under Brazilian law, employees who retire
once are not entitled to any additional retirement benefits if they do enter another
public service job. Increased private sector participation should increase market
discipline in all enterprises. In calibrating the severance payments, the state took into
account obligations toward employees, applicable laws including labor laws, prevailing
labor market conditions, and the affordability and replicability of the package.
(c) Steps Takeni to Mitigate Negative Impacts. The banks set up programs to provide
information and counseling on the benefits to all eligible employees. In addition,
employees opting for withdrawal could participate in training programs and career
counseling. For example, in BEMGE, each participant was eligible for 20 hours of
coursework in a wide variety of fields, plus 5 hours of individual counseling. The state



29
fedeiration of industries provides training on opening a small business through its
training branch.
(d) Economic and FinancialAnalysis. Economic cost-benefit analysis showed economic
rates of return (ERR) of 133 percent for BEMGE and 202 percent for CREDIREAL.
The internal financial rate of return was 216 percent for BEMGE and 324 percent for
CREDIREAL.
Studies, Consultants, Training, and Equipment
4.17   Studies, training and equipment (office equipment, including PCs and computer
software) are needed to define and/or implement the reforms supported by the project.
Therefore, these expenses are linked to the achievement of the project objectives, and may
include diagnostic or implementation studies to undertake the privatization actions in the
sectors supported by the project (banks, gas, roads, etc.). Auditing necessary for project
implementation would be eligible for financing, as would studies, training, or equipment
that raise the efficiency of public expenditure. Priority will be given to supporting the
design and establishment of a satisfactory regulatory framework (including design of
concession agreements) through technical assistance and training for: (i) the creation and
establishment of the public services regulatory entity; and (ii) assisting the Comissao de
DesestatizaVdo in carrying out the privatization and concession program and proposing
the necessary sector regulations (US$1 million).
Grants
4.18  Health decentralization (See para. 4.9) would complement the proposed Minas
Gerais health reforms. The manual and criteria developed as part of a proposed Bank
health project would be useful to guide these purchases. This financing will assure that
this important program is funded during the adjustment period.



30
Other Incremental Costs of Reforms
4.19   These are defined in para. 4.10. As with regular investment projects, the proposed
loan would finance recurrent reform costs while the state implements reforms.2
High Priority Investments
4.20   In addition to the reforms, the project will finance high priority investments during
the adjustment period, including:
Road maintenance and rehabilitation works (US$40 million) done in 1997 and 1998 would
be partially financed under the SPP using criteria to select segments for rehabilitation and
maintenance that would also be applied under the proposed State Highway Management
Loan to Minas (scheduled for Board presentation in FY99).
Decentralization of school maintenance, as well as funds transferred to School
Associations to buy basic furniture and equipment totaling US$89.0 million would also be
partially financed. Costs included under the Bank's existing education loan to Minas
(ProQualidade, State of Minas Gerais Basic Education Quality Improvement Project,
Loan 3733-BR) would not be financed under the present loan.
The Project Manual will include detailed eligibility criteria fbr each element included.
C. PROCUREMENT
Procurement Methods
4.21   Severance payments are direct government expenditures and, therefore, are not
procured. To keep procurement and disbursement for the other components as simple and
cost-effective as possible, the focus will be on smaller contracts that can be procured using
simpler procedures. No procurement under ICB is anticipated. A summary of proposed
procurement arrangements is provided in Table 4.3.
4.22   Works would be undertaken through contracts with private firms, in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, as revised in January and June 1996, and September ]1 997). In line with the need to
keep procurement simple to meet the project's reform objectives, most works and goods
contracts would be small enough to be procured using the simple shopping and three price
quotations. While no NCB is envisaged for financing under the SPP, it may become
necessary during project implementation to contract goods and works under NCB
2   The rationale for financing recurrent costs is much the same as that for traditional investment projects, in which
such financing would be allowed on a declining basis as the project is being implemented until it can become
self-sustaining. In this same manner, the SPP would finance recurrent reform costs while the state implements
its reform program. Once implemented, these reforms will enable the state to finance more efficient recurrent
and capital expenditures on a sustainable basis with its own resources and prudent borrowing.



31
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) 1/
Procurement Method
Components                       ICB    NCB    Other 21 NBF/3  Total Cost
Direct Costs of Reform
Total Losses from Privatization of CREDIREAL and BEMGE                            725.0    725.0
'Downsizing' of the work force
Direct Administration                                                            76.0      76.0
Enterprises and Banks                                                    240.0            240.0
(76.0)           (76.0)
Reform-related studies, consultants, training, and equipment
Modernization of the Secretary of the Treasury                                     26.0      26.0
Reform studies financed by FINEP                                                   10.0      10.0
Other studies, consultants, training and equipment                          5.0               5.0
(2.0)            (2.0)
Incremental Grants
Health Service Outsourcing and Family Preventive Medicine                  73.0              71.0
(31.0)           (31.0)
Municipal Health Consortia                                                 60.0              60.0
(25.0)           (25.0)
Incremental Recurrent Costs on a Declfning Basis
Incremental Salaries of the Reform Program                                  8.0               8.0
(6.0)            (6.0)
High Priority Investments During the Reform Period
Road Maintenance                                                   11.0    40.0              50.0
(15.0)           (15.0)
Decentralization of school maintenance and equipment                       89.0              89.0
(15.0)           (15.0)
TOTAL                                                                  11.0   515.0  837.0   1360.0
(Bank Financed)                                              0      0.0  (170.0)    0.0   (170.0)
1/ Amounts in parentheses indicate Bank financing.
2/ Shopping, price quotations, and consultant services to be selected according to the Guidelines "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997).
3/ Not Bank Financed
4/ Includes transfers to municipalities for expenditures on basic health provision and emergency health care
ICB  = International Competitive Bidding
NCB= National Competitive Bidding
procedures. Any NCB to be contracted and financed under the SPP would follow the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. A procurement audit following each time-slice
disbursement will review an adequate sample of contracts to assure that procurement
procedures have been performed in accord with Bank guidelines. See Table 4.4 for a
summary of procurement thresholds and review requirements.



32
4.23  Contracts for works expected to cost US$350,000 or more, but less than US$5
million, and contracts for goods expected to cost more than US$100,000 but less than
US$350,000 would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement for works costing less than US$350,000 and goods costing less than
US$100,000 would be carried out through price quotations, and international or local
shopping. NCB would be based on agreed Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for the
procurement of small and major works, and goods. (Revised Portuguese version of
documents prepared by SEAIN/MPO and the Bank in 1995).
4.24  Recruitment of consultant services (consulting firms or individual consultants) for
the technical studies, training, and audits, expected to cost approximately US$32 million,
would be carried out in accord with the Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 and revised September 1997).
Consulting firms will be selected in accordance with the quality and cost basis procedure.
Individual consultants will be employed as provided in the guidelines.
Procurement Review Procedures
4.25  To meet the project's reform objectives, activities requiring the simpler
procurement procedures and no prior review have been given priority. An ex-post audit of
an adequate sample of contracts awarded under NCB and under international and local
shopping procedures, or price quotations would be done following each time-slice
disbursement. These procurement procedures will not only streamline project execution
but also reduce the Bank's supervision burden.
4.26  Table 4.4 summarizes the procurement review for each type of procurement and
consultant contracting procedure. Prior review would be concentrated only on consultant
contracts. To ensure that all participating entities are fully capable of using Bank
procurement procedures at the onset of project implementation, the PIU would hire
consultants to review ex-ante the procedures for the first three procurement procedures
for goods and works by shopping or price quotations by each such entity. The Bank
would not perform an ex-ante review of consultant contracts in which: (i) individuals
consultants are hired on a competitive basis for amounts less than US$50,000; or (ii)
consulting firms are hired on a competitive basis for amounts less than US$100,000. In
all other cases (including all single-source contracts and consultancies of a critical nature),
the Bank would review ex-ante all documents of each contract for consultancies.
Following the above procedures the Bank would review ex-ante only about 10 percent of
the total cost of all procurement carried out under the project.



33
Table 4.4 Summary of Procurement and Prior Review Thresholds
Description         Type of        Prior PIU Review  Prior Bank    Contract
Procurement    Limit           Review Limit    Value
(US$1 ,000)
CIVIL WORKS         NCB            All             None             350 to 5,000
Price          First 3 of each    None         <350
Quotations     entity
GOODS               NCB            All             None             100 to 350
Shopping       First 3 of each    None         <100
entity
CONSULTING SERVICES
* Firms             Local and      All             Only TORs       <100
International                  All             >100
Consulting
Firms
* Individuals       Local and      All             Only TORs       <50
International                  All             >50
Consultants    I
4.27  The capacity of the PIU and the state's Executing Agencies for effective
implementation and review of procurement documents and procedures in line with Bank's
procedures improved greatly during the comprehensive training initiative to enhance the
implementation and management of public investment operations in Brazil at the federal,
state and municipal levels in which staff of executing agencies in the State of Minas Gerais
participated. The Training "and Dissemination Program in Procurement took place with
Bank participation in 1995.
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.28 Time-slice disbursement would follow successful completion of the required
actions at two points in time: after conditions of effectiveness have been met and after the
first project review has been successfully completed. Disbursement for this reform
component will be in two time-slices of US$100 million and US$70 million.
4.29  To facilitate disbursement, the PIU will submit to the Bank for its review an
Annual Disbursement Plan (ADP) at the Project Reviews that it would prepare in
accordance with the instructions in the Project Manual. It will list the items to be
disbursed and amounts to be submitted for disbursement, required subproject evaluations,
and the procurement procedures to be used in their purchase as established in the Project
Manual. The PIU may submit modifications in the ADP to the Bank for its review at any
time before the time-slice has been fully disbursed.
4.30  Withdrawals will be made for each time-slice only for expenditures for items
included in an ADP acceptable to the Bank. The disbursement percentages for severance
payments and consultants will be 100 percent of the non-tax expenditure. As the financing



34
of incremental recurrent costs will be on a declining basis, the disbursement percentage
will be as follows: 90 percent for withdrawals made until August 30, 1998; and 80
percent thereafter. The disbursement percentages for all goods and works would be 100
percent of foreign costs and 83 percent of local costs.
4.31   To ensure that the state has adequate resources to finance its reform program
(especially the heavy initial downsizing costs), 50 percent retroactive financing is proposed
and the special account should include amounts greater than normally approved.
Expenditures up to this limit that were made 18 or less months prior to loan signing,
would be eligible for retroactive financing. A higher than normal percentage of retroactive
financing and the 18 month period is justifiable since Minas began to absorb many of the
costs of its reform program in 1996 (especially downsizing). These two exceptions were
approved by the Regional Vice President on April 24, 1997. Disbursement projections
are shown in Table 4.5. The Project Completion Date will be September 30, 1999 and the
Closing Date will be December 31, 1999.
Table 4.5: Disbursement Projections
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year and   Time-slice   Cumulative Disbursements  Semester
Semester        _________     Absolute %_Semester
1999                 .
Jul-Dec 98                 1&2         80            47          1
Jan-Jun 99                 2           80            47          2
2000                  '                               _
Jul-Dec 99                 3           10             6          1
TOTAL                                 170           100
Closing date: December 31, 1999
4.32  Documentation of Expenditures. Withdrawal applications for recurrent costs and
services not requiring the Bank's prior review, would be disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the PIU. Supporting documents would not
be submitted to the Bank but would be subject to ex-post independent audits and Bank
review. Selective review of SOE documentation, covering not less than 20 percent of
expenses disbursed under SOE, would be undertaken as part of the annual project audit.
Only technical assistance and auditor's contracts estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of US$50,000 for individuals and US$100,000 and for consulting or accounting
firms would be disbursed against standard documentation. No withdrawals shall be made
for each time-slice unless they are part of the eligible expenditures agreed upon with the
Bank and disbursement conditions have been fulfilled.



35
E. AccouNTs AND AUDITS
4.33  A special account in dollars with an authorized allocation of US$17.0 million
would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The sum of the first
deposit to the special account and the amounts withdrawn from the loan in respect of
retroactive financing shall not exceed US$17.0 million. The same applies to the second
time-slice. The special account will be maintained and operated by the PIU which will also
be responsible for submitting replenishment requests to the Bank.
4.34  Accounts. The participating executing agencies will maintain identified accounts
of the project in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. The
accounts will show expenditures for each project component, subdivided by expenditures
financed by the Bank and the Borrower.
4.35  Audits. The state government will maintain separate accounts for the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the loan (i.e., incremental recurrent costs of
reform on a declining basis and technical assistance). These accounts as well as the special
account will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with the Bank auditing guidelines. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank the
audit reports of expenditures within 6 months of the closure of each fiscal year. The audit
reports would certify that the funds were used for eligible expenditures and were procured
as defined in the Loan Agreement.
F. PROGRAM SUPERVISION
4.36  Given the loan's complex nature and short implementation schedule, supervision
would be at least biannual, and more likely every other month.
G. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.37  Bank involvement in Minas' state privatization program is prompted by the
substantial economic benefits of the program, and its potential as a model for other states.
Project Benefits
4.38  The project's chief economic benefits derive from the sale of the state banks and
the privatization of state infrastructure services (See Annex B for a matrix summarizing
these benefits. )The sale of the banks will eliminate the economic costs--in the form of
resource misallocations--arising from their poor lending decisions. It will also confer fiscal
benefits to the state. The sale of CREDIREAL and BEMGE will eliminate the state's
exposure to further losses from the banks' operations.



36
4.39   The privatization and concession of state infrastructure services will also confer
economic benefits. Deficient infrastructure services are a constraint on the growth of
Minas' economy. Poor highway maintenance impedes economic growth, by increasing the
costs of transportation in the state. Coverage of natural gas lines lags demand by major
industries. The concessioning of state highway maintenance and the sale of the state gas
company will improve the reliability and increase the coverage of the services provided by
these companies. This will significantly increase the productivity of Minas' economy,
Brazil's second largest.
Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement
4.40   The project is fully supportive of the key objectives of the CAS, as discussed at the
Board on June 12, 1997; indeed it was specifically consistent with what is mentioned in
paragraph 60 of the CAS. The project specifically supports two elements of the CAS'
public sector reform strategy reducing the role of the state banks and continuing the
privatization of state public enterprises. Although the state government is proceeding with
its privatization program on its own initiative, the Bank has provided the state selectively
with expertise when required. Moreover, the Bank is providing continuous support to the
state this what is a traditionally a multi-year, politically onerous, and fragile privatization
process. In this regard, the Bank is acting as an anchor to see that the overall reforms--
particularly in the state financial sector--are completed. Furthermore, the loan is well
coordinated with the: Central Bank Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 4245-BR), which
promotes further improvement in the state bank privatization process, such as in the
resolution of residual bad assets; the proposed Minas Gerais State Highway Management
Project, which will provide continued technical support for road concessions; and the
Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project (Loan 4188-BR), which will
finance engineering design and civil works for rehabilitation of federal highway sections to
be transferred to the state.
Project Risks
4.41   A key project risk is the political uncertainty generated by the gubernatorial
elections in November 1998. The current governor, Eduarclo Azeredo, is running for re-
election. If Governor Azeredo is not elected, there is a substantial risk that the governor
taking office in January 1999 would not support the reform program under the terms
negotiated by the current Governor and his team. Other key risks to the project are that
government's commitment to reform program or its capacity to successfully implement it
would wane. While Governor Azeredo was elected on a reform platform and has
repeatedly reiterated his commitment to privatization, the struggle to implement the
reforms has been long and hard fought.
4.42   To address these risks, the project will reward the reforms on an ex-post basis.
Privatizations and concessions must be completed as a condition of time-slice release. In
addition, much progress has been made in the implementation of the privatization program
during the delay in loan processing after negotiation. One of the most important
reforms-sale of CREDIREAL-has already been completed as a condition of Board



37
presentation. The sale of BEMGE is well advanced and it is expected to be sold by
August 1998. The state has prequalified a number of firms for the two road concessions.
The law establishing the regulatory framework has been sent to the State Assembly. Only
the privatization of the gas company is slightly behind schedule. Intensive supervision
during the first months after Board approval will seek to push these reforms to fruition
during the governor's mandate.
4.43   Another risk is that the state will spend the net returns from privatization
imprudently. The approach of the gubernatorial campaign season, combined with tight
restraint on capital spending from 1995 to 1997, could increase pressure for spending on
ill-conceived capital works. The following steps have been taken to mitigate this risk.
The state's debt agreement with the federal government requires that the returns from the
sale of the two state banks be used to pay down federal debt. In addition, the Bank will
review the state's capital spending program, and may suspend disbursement of any of the
time-slices, if the state deviates substantially from the agreed investment program in the in
the Privatization Program Letter. This will assure that the net proceeds of the gas
company (that is not covered in the debt agreement) will be used wisely.
4.44   There is also some risk that the regulatory framework will not function as fairly
and impartially as intended., The concept of regulated private utilities will take time to
become institutionalized, as it represents a radical change in the way the government has
traditionally provided infrastructure services. It will also require frequent adjustment to
remain compatible with the evolving regulatory framework at the federal level. If any
federal regulatory development were to cast uncertainty on existing state regulatory
arrangements, already-agreed concession contracts may become unstable and require
renegotiations costly to the state. Intensive supervision during the implementation of this
regulatory framework will seek to assure its effective establishment.






ANNEXES



ANNEX A
PRIVATIZATION MATRIX
Conditions of First Annual Review
Actions                                                                                                    First Annual Review
Privatize BEMGE                                                 Sale of the state's share of BEMGE on mutually acceptable terms
Establislment of public utility regulatory cntity(ies) for gas, and  Full implementation of a mutually acceptable regulatory system for privatized or concessioned services.
road concessions.
Privatize Gas Energy (GASMIG)                                   GASMIG sold or concessioned on mutually acceptable tenns, and in accordance with environmental obligations and
targoets established oni the basis of environmental audits satisfactory to the Bank.
Road Maintenance Concessions                                    Two sets of road concessions for 460 kilometers on mutually acceptable terms, and in accordance with environmental
obligations and targets established on the basis of enviromnental audits satisfactory to the Bank.
Public finanace                                                 Mutually satisfactory public expenditure review in accord with the targets in the Privatization Program Letter.



ANNEX B
IMPACT MATRIX
ASSESSMENT OF MINAS GERAIS' STATE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
Policies                 Key Actions                  Impact of Actions on   Reversibility of                    Efficiency Gains of          Fiscal Impact of Actions
Policies                     Actions                      Actions
1. Privatization of Banks and Other Public Enterprises
Privatization of banks   Sale of voting control of    The final objective is to     Sales of CREDIREAL and       Privatization would help to    The state could receive revenues from
CREDIREAL and BEMGE          totally remove the state from    BEMGE are very unlikely to   consolidate and strengthen  sale of assets. It would also stop
or complete other acceptable  the commercial banking      be reversed.                 the banking system.           losses and avoid recapitalization
actions.                     business.                                                 Improved service, resource    expenditures. Moreover, privatized
allocation.                  banks could also generate significant
tax revenues for the government.
Privatize gas distribution   Restructuring of the gas  Actions would develop the    Once the restructuring is    Actions set the grounds for  The state could receive revenues from
sector in Minas, including  regulatory framework for the  implemented, it would be     private gas distribution with   sale or concessioning of assets.
the sale or concessioning of    private delivery of gas   difficult to reverse.        potential gains in efficiency    The state could receive tax revenues  >
GASMIG.                      services to the state.                                    from: reductions in           on expanded gas services.               o
operational costs, elimination   Private distribution finms would
of potential losses, and     generate federal taxes on profits of
expansion of services to meet  about 14% of their billing.
demand growth which is
particularly important given
Minas' major industrial
economic base.
Road maintenianice       Award of road maintenance    Concessionis of about 460    Actions are long-tenn         Significant productivity gains  State would no longer be responsible
concessions              concessions.                 kilometers.                  concessioni contracts unlikely  for productive activities from   for road maintenance costs and would
to be reversed.              savings in transport costs   have significant capital construction
from improved road systems,  savings.
includinig gas, labor, vehicle    Conicessioniaire's profits WOuIld be
maintenance, etc.            subject to federal income tax.
Capital and operating costs to
be increasinigly recovered
from final user.



41                             Annex C
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF THE MINAS GERAIS
STATE PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AND POLICIES
Environmental Problems
1.    The main environmental problems in the State of Minas Gerais include pollution
problems related to urban and industrial activities (water pollution, air pollution, solid waste),
pollution problems related to agricultural activities (mainly water pollution) and degradation
of the natural resource base, for example, in the form of soil erosion. Pollution problems are
most severe in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region (BHMR), part of the Sao Francisco
river basin and the industrial zones of the Vale do Ago which forms part of the Rio Doce river
basin.
2.    Various entities undertake basic monitoring of water quality in the main river basins.
The Bank is assisting the State in its environmental management efforts through financing of
the ongoing Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (Loan 3554-BR)
which includes the construction of interceptors for two small rivers crossing the BHMR. So
far, wastewaters are discharged into the das Velhas river and cause severe pollution levels in a
thinly populated stretch of about 100 km. Plans for the construction of wastewater treatment
plants for the BHMR are now proceeding. In addition, the Bank is financing a Municipal
Management and Environmental Infrastructure Project (Loan 3639-BR) which contains
support for solid waste management.
3.    There is limited air quality monitoring in the BHMR. Air pollution is an obvious
problem at the street level of major urban centers and around industrial locations. However,
regional air quality levels in the BHMR are mostly within ambient quality standards.
Environmental Policies
4.    The combination of federal, state and local environmental regulations has created a
complex system of requirements that covers most potentially environmentally harmful
activities but is at times confusing for polluters and difficult to enforce. The objectives of
environmental policy are formally defined in ambient environmental standards. The federal
government has established water and air quality standards through resolutions of the National
Environment Council (CONAMA). For example, CONAMA Resolution 20/1986 determines
ambient standards for nine water use classes for the main water pollutants. Several water
bodies in Minas Gerais have been classified according to water use classes.



42                             Annex C
5.    At the national level, there are the PROAGUA national water quality program and the
PRONAR national air quality control program, which include ambient monitoring,
administration of emission licenses, and a national emissions inventory. The implementation of
most policies, however, is the responsibility of the state. In Minas Gerais, the basic legal
provisions for environmental management are contained in the Basic Environment Law of
1980, regulated in March 1981.
6.    The main instruments for pollution management is a comprehensive licensing system
that was established in 1981 and requires a valid license for every potentially environmentally
harmful activity. The firms' licensing applications contain inlformation on technical parameters
and environmental impacts based on which the state grants or refuses the license. An
environmental license determines the environmental conditions and norms under which the
respective activity is permitted. The licensing process involves three steps: a preliminary
license granted during the planning process of a new project, an installation license required
for actual construction, and an operation license. For activities with potentially large
environmental impact, the evaluation of an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) forms
part of the licensing process. The state can initiate the licensing process for facilities that
precede the licensing system. In these cases, a corrective operating license is issued and
includes necessary remedial measures.
7.    Current environmental management instruments are largely based on administrative
instruments and a command-and-control system. Moreover, there is no effective link that ties
environmental policies to the ambient environmental conditions in specific locations. Cross-
sectoral planning and coordination of environmental policy is insufficient. Economic thinking
and the desire to develop flexible and cost-effective solutions to pollution problems is not yet
well-developed. For example, lacking integration between effluent controls from industry and
the sewerage sector undermine the development of cost-effective pollution control strategies.
There has been insufficient cooperation between environmental agencies and, in particular, the
sewerage sector, even though experience elsewhere suggest: that such cooperation is critical
for effective pollution reduction.
8.    The key reforms of environmental management instruments comprise the introduction
of a comprehensive system of water basin management. A 1994 law created the legal basis for
such systems in which water basin management plans are prepared by water basin agencies
and approved by committees representing the users of the respective water basin. The
instruments of water basin management would include water charges and effluent discharge
fees. While a few water basin committees or similar arrangernents are currently being formed,
full implementation of the system will have to await the further regulation of the law.
9.    Environmental management in Minas Gerais is the responsibility of the Funda,co
Estadual de Meio Ambiente (FEAM) which reports to the newly formed Secretary of
Environment and Sustainable Development, Health and Environment. FEAM has a total staff
of about 140. Working conditions of FEAM are difficult but not desperate, and overall
capacity to deal with the comprehensive environmental management demands is better than in
many Brazilian States. On the other hand, resources are insufficient to comprehensively deal
with environmental management in a state as large as Minas, which is the size of France. For



43                             Annex C
example, the overall database of ambient quality and, thus, the information base for effective
environmental policy is relatively limited. While FEAM follows up on citizens' complaints on
pollution problems, resources are insufficient for a comprehensive program of regular visits
and spot-checks at polluting sites. Given resource constraints, FEAM's strategy to rely on
cooperation with municipalities and industry federations is reasonable.
10.   An interesting aspect of Minas Gerais' environmental management system is the
Conselho Estadual de Politica Ambiental (COPAM). This council is responsible for granting
or refusing licenses and relies on FEAM as its technical arm. COPAM is composed of
representatives of the state government, industry, and civil society and deliberates in public
sessions. The result of this arrangement, which combines the functions of deliberative state
councils with public sector representation only and consultative councils with broader
representation in other states, allows more transparency in licensing and a more explicit
approach toward the discussion of costs and benefits of environmental regulations.
11.   FEAM  has historically focused on industrial pollution and achieved significant
progress in particular with the larger polluters. However, similar to many environmental
agencies elsewhere, FEAM is often not substantially involved in important government
decision processes with significant environmental impacts. The result of this exclusion is that
environmental concerns are often not considered from the beginning in important planning
decisions and investment projects but encountered as a constraint after the planning process is
substantially completed. This approach leads to polarization and stigmatization of
environmental agencies as obstacles to effective execution of investment projects. FEAM is
receiving technical assistance from German GTZ and the Bank through the Water Quality
Project and the National Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 3480-BR).
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF THE STATE PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
12.   The Minas Gerais State Privatization Project will not have adverse environmental
impacts. The program will likely improve environmental performance through better
environmental oversight of current state enterprises. The government recognizes the
importance of considering the environmental aspects early in the process of privatizations
planned under the State Privatization Program. This approach will: (a) reduce the uncertainty
for potential private sector investors about their environmental obligations; and (b) allow
improvements in environmental performance at least cost.
13.   It was agreed that for each company or activity with a potentially significant
environmental impact, the environmental obligations of the new owner/operator would be
determined before the time of sale/concessioning. Following an environmental audit, and still
before the time of concessioning or sale, agreement would be reached among the responsible
entities on environmental performance targets including the time and the responsible party for
remedying the identified problems.
14.   Within the components of the State Privatization Project, three sectors raise
environmental issues that are discussed below: the reforms of the water and sewerage sector,
the concessioning of road maintenance, and the sale or concessioning of the gas distribution



44                             Annex C
company. For the environmental audits in these sectors, the terms of reference for
environmental audits and draft reports of the consultants would be sent to the Bank for
comments. Other components of the project, such as the privatization of the state banks, do
not require an analysis of environmental aspects since potential environmental impacts from
the sector are non-existent or minimal.
Gas Distribution
15.   GASMIG is a gas distribution company which is owned by the State energy company
CEMIG and serves 27 industrial consumers in the BHMIR (specifically, Belo Horizonte,
Betim, and Contagem) and Juiz de Fora. GASMIG obtains its gas from the transmission
pipeline of PETROBRAS which originates in Rio de Janeiro and reaches Belo Horizonte
through Juiz de Fora. The current distribution network consists of 12 km in Juiz de Fora and
25 km in BHI-MR. All of GASMIG's installations have a valid environmental license with the
exception of 4 or 5 connections of industrial customers which are in the process of being
regularized.
16.   GASMIG is currently undertaking an expansion of its gas distribution to additional
customers to the north of Belo Horizonte. This expansion is expected to be completed before
privatization of the company. The expansion of the distribution network follows the public
road network and does not involve either relocation or significant environmental issues. The
related works were preceded by an Environmental Impact Assessment and were frlly licensed
by FEAM. In addition, GASMIG undertook an extensive public education and consultation
campaign before beginning this expansion. The care exercised during the preparation and
execution of the Environmental Control Action Plan for this expansion demonstrates good
capacity by GASMIG and FEAM in the environmentally sound execution of such projects.
17.   GASMIG has plans for the extension of its distributioni network to Sete Lagoas and
the Vale do Aco. The details of these plans and its relation to the planned privatization have
not yet been worked out. In any event, a complete Environmental Impact Assessment and
subsequent licensing by FEAM would be required under Brazilian regulation before such
expansion could proceed.
18.   Before the time of sale or concessioning of the gas distribution company GASMIG,
the consultants, which are assisting the state in the preparation of the privatization would
carry out the following tasks:
a) A review of the environmental regulatory framework and monitoring and
enforcement capacity of the responsible agencies with respect to safety and
environmental issues in the gas sector;
b) an environmental audit of GASMIG, covering a physical inspection of the
facilities, including safety aspects (checking pipelines and other systems for
corrosions and leaks) and management of wastes (condensates) from the system
with recommendations for necessary measures taken, their time, cost and
responsible party; and



45                            Annex C
c) a review and recommendations for necessary improvements of procedures and
activities that affect system safety (such as procedures for maintenance and
repairs).
Highway Maintenance Concessions
19.   Minas intends to concession the maintenance of two major State highways: MG-050
from BR-262 to the Sao Paulo State border (385 km) and MG-010/424 from Belo Horizonte
to Sete Lagoas (76 km). The highway maintenance concessions to be awarded under the
project are for normal maintenance activities, such as repaving, but do not include widening,
realignment, extension or construction of new roads. The only exception is a 13-km stretch of
MG-010/424 near the international airport which is currently being widened. The right of way
has been acquired, earthworks have already been completed, and no resettlement issues or
significant environmental problems exist. The concessionaire would effectively take on the
obligation of paving the already prepared surface for widening this stretch of road.
20.   Routine road maintenance works do not require an environmental license. However, it
was agreed that the road maintenance contracts would include explicit clauses ensuring the
environmentally acceptable behavior of the contractors (covering issues such as construction
wastes, construction camp management and equipment maintenance). The contracts would be
enforced by the Road Department (DERIMG). In addition, the contracts would require a valid
environmental license where legally required, such as for extraction and disposal sites, burrow
pits, and asphalt plants. The conditions of such licenses would be enforced by FEAM.
21.   Roads which have been constructed before environmental licensing became mandatory
(such as the highways to be concessioned) can be called by FEAM for retroactive licensing
(regularization). DER/MG and FEAM are currently engaged in a joint process to regularize all
roads within the state. Also, it is FEAM's policy to require such licensing in the case of
private sector concessions. The concessionaire would therefore be required to regularize the
respective highways. Bidding documents would contain corresponding references and the
terms of reference for the required documentation.
22.   The consultants currently preparing the concessioning of road maintenance would
perform the following tasks before the time of concessioning:
a) A review of the environmental regulatory framework and enforcement capacity as
it relates to highway maintenance activities and recommendations for their
improvements;
b) preparation of proposals for concession contract clauses that would ensure sound
environmental practices by the concessionaire;
c) compilation of the technical information required to assess the measures necessary
for regularization of roads that do not yet have an environmental license.



46                               Annex D
LESSONS LEARNED AND PREVIOUS 1BANK EXPERIENCE
IN THE SECTOR
1.    The Minas Gerais State Privatization Project draws on lessons of experience from a
number of Bank projects of similar scope and design in both the Latin America and Caribbean
region and Brazil. Because the Bank and other institutions are increasingly supporting
regional development, a wider range of experiences in operationalizing and implementing
these projects can be used. In addition, the Bank's experience with subnational government
projects has evolved rapidly, offering many country-specific insights.
Subnational Development Projects
2.    Complex project design has often been cited as a key reason for weakening important
components of subnational development projects. Aspects such as institutional development
and financial management are often neglected in these projects, due to the high demand placed
on state implementation and coordination capacities.
3.    Experience shows that by identifying and designing key implementation arrangements
early in the project preparation process allows for greater flexibility and improved project
implementation. In the case of the Minas Gerais Municipal Management and
Environmental Infrastructure Project (Loan 3639-BR), the Terms of Reference to be used
and implementation arrangements were discussed during the project's preparation phase. This
helped shape the dialogue between the Bank and the state, and, moreover clarified and better
defined project objectives and scope for both parties. Increased borrower involvement during
these stages also has the benefit of giving governments greater project ownership.
4.    In its 1992 review of urban and municipal projects in Brazil, OED found that many
projects did not pay enough attention to the external environment in which they would be
implemented. Tailoring project implementation periods to political mandates is particularly
important in the case of Brazil, as it helps to capture government support for a project. As an
alternative, projects that have a flexible design can easily accolmmodate shifting political
priorities. Additionally, any pilot programs need to be quickly implemented to capitalize on a
climate of favorable political and community support.



47                                Annex D
Project Sector Reforms in Brazil
5.    One of the most relevant projects with respect to design and scope of the Minas Gerais
SPP is the Brazil Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2721-BR). This project sought
to develop planning and management capacity on the federal level in the areas of sector and
project analysis, multi-year investment planning, and program monitoring. Another major
component of the project was an integrated budget information and control system. One key
lesson of experience is that project design should not be overly ambitious since the loan size,
the project's operational complexity, and the number of project components can ultimately
burden both the Borrower and the Bank during implementation and supervision.
Privatization of Public Enterprises in Argentina
6.    Under the Public Enterprise Reform Project in Argentina (Loan 3291-AR), the
following lessons were learned. The initiative to privatize was entirely the government's. The
Bank was vital in providing financial and technical support, but never set the basic policy
objective.
7.    The Bank prudently kept a low profile. In spite of an ubiquitous Bank presence,
privatization never became a "World Bank Program" in the eyes of political or public opinion.
8.    A large amount of relevant sector work had been done by the Bank before there was
any indication that a privatization program might be possible. Since at the time, the chances
for any lending resulting from this work were quite low, it may well be thought of as a high-
risk gamble. The gamble paid off, but without this technical work, it would have been difficult
for the new government to seize the moment and push ahead with privatization when a
pervasive sense of national crisis gave it the needed political support.
9.    Implementation was greatly enhanced by a highly effective Project Unit. The fact that
the head of the Unit participated, from the beginning, in loan discussions and formal
negotiations, enabled the Unit to play a constructive role during implementation.
10.   The Bank's imaginative use of adjustment lending, in allowing visible application of
counterpart proceeds to finance severance payments, was decisive in making railroad
privatization feasible. But its justification hinged on two circumstances: monitoring to prevent
rehiring or replacement and, even more important, imminent privatization, after which the
pressures to overstaff would, presumably, largely disappear.
Operational Aspects
11.   Disbursement has been a traditional problem in Brazil due to the long-standing
incompatibility between Brazil's federal procurement law and Bank guidelines. Disbursement
lags also persisted due to federal regulation that mandated that all special accounts be held in
the Central Bank. In 1993, federal legislation was enacted to allow public entities to hold



48                              Annex D
projects accounts in institutions outside the central bank. Concrete steps have also been taken
to improve procurement procedures thorough the issuance of Standard Bidding Documents
for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) that were agreed upon by the federal government
and the Bank.



49                              Annex E
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF STAFF-
REDUCTION PROGRAMS
1.    The loan will finance the cost of severance payments under the downsizing programs
of BEMGE and CREDIREAL and other state enterprises that meet the criteria established on
the Project Manual. These are two government-owned banks that are legally autonomous and
have assets as well as their own sources of revenue. The downsizing programs that have been
undertaken by these enterprises include both voluntary and involuntary dismissals, as well as
incentive programs for early retirement programs. These downsizing programs, which account
for a 30 percent reduction in the overall employment in these two entities, are just one
component within a comprehensive set of measures that has been adopted by each of these
enterprises ultimately aimed at their drastic restructuring or privatization.
2.    This annex will analyze how the downsizing programs adopted by BEMGE and
CREDIREAL provide for increased productivity and also deal with the potential problems
associated with such severance programs, including: rehiring, excessive severance payments,
adverse publicity, and negative impacts on those who withdraw. Finally, the results of
financial and cost-benefit analyses are presented.
Impact on Productivity
3.    The different state employment reduction programs currently being implemented in
Minas Gerais were initiated only after careful studies to develop a strategy to improve the
banks' productivity, each being just one element of these strategies. Each bank has a detailed
program for increasing productivity and the sale price. In many cases, the enterprises also
revised their career and salary plans to assure that the remaining employees are more
effectively utilized.
Measures to Avoid Reversal
4.    As these two banks would be privatized, rehiring would be subject to market
discipline. Other state enterprises not being privatized cannot deny employees who leave
under the different programs their constitutionally guaranteed right to participate in public
examinations for employment. Moreover, those employees accepting the benefit packages are
not required to return the full amount of the withdrawal package if they reenter any state
entity. However, by Brazilian law, they will not be entitled to any additional retirement
benefits due to a change in their employment status. Furthermore, it is not expected that the
withdrawing employees would be interested in the entry level positions that would be offered
in these public examinations. Finally, the increased private sector participation being sought in



50                                Annex E
all the enterprises, ranging from major restructuring to full privatization, should also increase
market discipline in the future hirings.
5.    The cost of the involuntary dismissal programs was based on the provisions made
under Brazilian law. In calibrating the severance payments for the voluntary dismissals and
incentive programs for early retirement, each enterprise took into account obligations toward
employees, applicable laws including labor laws and agreements, prevailing labor market
conditions, and the affordability and replicability of the package. In some cases, trade unions
opposed these downsizing program, but were unsuccessful to block them. Due to the
problems that arose during the privatization efforts in other states, the officials at
CREDIREAL worked directly with employees to design an attractive, while financially viable
benefits package.
Steps Taken to Mitigate Negative Impacts
6.    The two banks set up programs to provide information and counseling on the benefits
of the different voluntary programs to all eligible employees. In addition, employees opting
for withdrawal could participate in training programs and career counseling. For example, in
BEMGE, each participant was eligible for 20 hours of coursework in a wide variety of fields,
plus 5 hours of individual counseling. The state federation of industries provides training on
opening a small business through its training branch.
Economic Costs and Benefits
7.    This section analyzes the impact of the different emplloyment-reduction programs on
the productivity of the enterprise. An economic analysis, which encompasses economy-wide
costs and benefits, is conducted to determine whether the different programs are economically
viable.
8.    Economic cost-benefit analysis showed economic rate of returns (ERR) of 133 percent
for BEMGE and 202 percent for CREDIREAL. The financial internal rate of return was 216
percent for BEMGE and 324 percent for CREDIREAL.
Methodology
9.    The economic (rather than financial) costs and benefits of the employment-reduction
programs are defined as follows. The costs cover mainly the amount of the severance
payments (early retirement and financial incentives in the case of voluntary withdraw and
retirement programs, and costs of dismissal as required by law in involuntary dismissal
programs) and the training costs. There is no loss of service to any of the enterprises since, by
definition, the workers declared redundant have a zero marginal productivity. The benefits
include the additional contribution to the economy that the workers will be able to deliver
where there is demand for their services. In particular:
10.   Economfic Costs: The costs of the employment-reduction program in each enterprise
are given by the sum of the net present value of:



51                               Annex E
the marginal productivity value of laid-off or retired employees from the state enterprises,
differentiated by year (i), employee (j), and enterprise (k) (Rrijk)
(i)   the severance payments (Sij ).
(ii)   the early retirement payments (Pij).
(iii)  the training costs (Tijk).
11.   Item (i) represents the services not rendered by the employees being laid-off or retired.
Since the remaining personnel is sufficient to carry out current production levels of these
enterprises, the value of the marginal production productivity of retrenched workers is
assumed to be zero.
12.   In an environment without budget constraints or price distortions, items (ii) and (iii)
would not normally be labeled economic costs. Assuming no subsidy and no government
budget constraint, these outlays would be considered income-efficient transfers to the
redundant employees and would not be included as a cost in the analysis. Brazil, however,
does have a budget constraint and a highly distorted tax system which results in price
distortions. These two items were therefore included to recognize the importance of the
opportunity costs of public funds. The underlying assumption is that the shadow price of
public funds is 100 percent and that each dollar of public resources used to finance severance
payments or early retirement packages has an equivalent economic cost which needs to be
taken into account. This also contributes to the conservative estimates of the rate of return as
the cost estimates are an upper bound of the costs rather than a lower bound. These payments
are differentiated by year (i) and employee 0).
13.   Item (iv), training costs, have an economic component attached as long as the training
agency (or firm) has an alternative use for its resources. In this case, training will be provided
by state-supported agencies that operate far below their service capacity limits. Nevertheless,
the full cost of the training program was included. Training costs were estimated at US$1,143
per employee, and all redundant workers under the voluntary dismissal program have been
included as potential candidates. Training is differentiated by year (i) employee (j), and
enterprise (k).
14.   The pensions paid to normally retired employees are not included, since these costs
would be incurred anyway. Welfare payments to those redundant workers who do not find
employment have not been included, as social security payments under Brazilian law are
marginal --i.e., the minimum wage for a maximum of three months.
15.   Economic Benefits: The benefits of redundancy reduction in each year are given by:
(i)   the marginal productivity value of each laid-off employee elsewhere in the
economy (REjmp).
(ii)  the marginal productivity value of the foregone labor cost of the enterprises
(LC ijk ).



52                               Annex E
16.   The marginal productivity value of the laid-off employee is the product of: (i) the
probability of the employee's engagement in another productive activity, by (ii) the net income
produced by such activity. RE is influenced by attributes such as age, education, etc., of each
employee (j), and the location (m) he is likely to find an occupation (p). Location (m) may or
may not be the same as where he previously worked and occupation (p) is related to the
employee's attributes and the training which he receives. In some cases, the laid-off employee
may get a job at the expense of someone else's job, and his net income contribution may be
zero. But since these cases are normally rare, impact on the final results would not be
significant. Provision was made for these assumptions by reducing employees' marginal
productivity by 10 percent and 20 percent in the sensitivity analyses.
17.   The marginal productive value of the foregone labor cost of the enterprises represents
the opportunity cost of the outlays that will be saved by the downsizing programs. The
savings in labor costs can be used in investments needed to increase and improve the services
provided by these enterprises. In the economic analysis they are estimated as equivalent to the
foregone labor cost. However, they were excluded from the calculations of the internal rate
of return to provide estimates that are a lower bound of the benefits rather than an upper
bound, thus resulting in more conservative estimates of the rate of return.
Quantitative Assumptions
18.   The quantitative assumptions made in estimating the economic value of staff-
reduction programs are conservative, including the assumption that not everyone will find a
job. The probability of being rehired is estimated at 0.83 based on employment data for the
largest metropolitan areas in the Southeastern region, of which Minas Gerais is a part. This
probability provides a conservative estimate, as Minas Gerais now ranks first in Brazil in terms
of employment generation. The main reason for the rather short duration of unemployment is
that prices adjust to clear the labor market. This implies that unemployment goes down as the
price of labor declines. Those who do not find a job at their previous wage have to accept a
wage cut consistent with the average probability of being employed. The reduction in wage
depends on the region; wage is reduced to the average salary in the region where a worker is
declared redundant. These wage losses were estimated at approximately 25 percent in the
southeastern region.
Results
19.   Table E. I presents the results for the different employment-reduction initiatives being
undertaken by BEMGE and CREDIREAL. The overall net present value of these initiatives is
estimated at approximately US$589 million with a 12 percent discount rate. The overall
internal rate of return is estimated at 140 percent taking into account only the benefits from
the marginal productivity of retrenched employees to obtain more conservative estimates.
Financial Rates of Return



53                              Annex E
20.   Table E. 1 also shows the financial rates of return calculated taking into account the
costs of the programs and the labor costs savings from retrenchment for the retrenchment
programs of BEMGE and CREDIREAL is 228 percent.
21.   In summary, all the different programs have a clear economic and financial value, even
under the most pessimistic assumptions. The economic value does not result from redundant
workers being laid-off, but rather from their productive employment in other sectors of the
economy where demand has been identified and their training, which contributes to the
enhancement of the labor force. It also releases scarce public resources for better targeted
and more effective uses, including education and health care as well as the rebuilding and
expansion of the state's infrastructure.



54                                      Annex E
Table E.1
Economic and Financial Analysis of Minas Gerais' Severance Payments
Company:                                      BEMGE  CREDIREAL  Total
Type of Program:                              Weighted      Involuntary   Weighted
Average       Dismissal    Average
Total State Employees                               10,118          2,739      12,857
No. of Eligible Employees                          10,118          2,739       12,857
No. of Layoffs                                      3,445            415       3,860
Relative Weights                                     0.89            0.11        1.00
% of Layoffs                                         34%             15%         30%
Avg. Monthly Salary (US$)                            1,210           701        1,156
Avg. Monthly Wages & Benefits                       2,191           1,269       2,092
Annual Average Wage & Benefits (US$)               26,290          15,228      25,101
Probability of Finding a Job                          0.83           0.83        0.83
Wage Reduction Coefficient                            0.75           0.75        0.75
Marginal Productivity per Employee (US$)           16,366          9,479       15,625
Severance Payment per Employee (US$)               14,431          4,695       13,384
Total Severance Payments (US$000)                  49,715           1,949     51,663
Total Program Cost (US$000)                        52,035           1,949     53,983
Annual Labor Costs Savings (US$000)                90,570          6,319      96,890
Annual Marginal Productivity Gains (US$000)        56,380          3,934      60,314
PV of Labor Costs Savings (US$ m)                     361             36         397
PV of Marginal Productivity Gains (US$ m)             225             22         247
Gross Present Value (US$ m)                           586             58         643
Net Present Value (US$ m)                             533             56         589
Estimated ERR
Economic Costs (US$000)                            52,035          1,949      53,983
Annual Economic Benefits (US$000)                  56,380           3,934     60,314
- Base Case                                         133%           202%         140%
- Marginal Productivity Reduced by 10%              119%           182%         126%
- Marginal Productivity Reduced by 20%              105%           161%        111%
Estimated Financial Rate of Return
Financial Costs (US$000)                           52,035          1,949      53,983
Annual Cost Savings (US$000)                       90,570           6,319      96,890
- Base Case                                         216%           324%        228%
- Labor Savings Reduced by 10%                      194%           292%        205%
- Labor Savings Reduced by 20%                      172%           259%        181%
Other Input Data
Average Age                                            36             33           35
Avg. Years with Company                                11              6           10
Average Remaining Years                                 6             10           6



55                            Annex F
PARTICIPATION
1     Minas Gerais is a state with a long history of public participation in governance and
policy-making. On the state level, "Participatory Planning" was instituted in the latter part of
the 1970s to involve all beneficiaries of economic development in the planning process. In
1993, participatory planning entered a new phase, with the introduction of public fora
(audiencia piihlicas) at the state level. These public forums were pioneered by the Legislative
Assembly as a way to promote more direct communication between the legislative branch and
the 41 regions and within Minas. The main objective of the public fora is to identify regional
developmental and budget priorities for use in developing the state's annual budget. Due to
the initial successes of 1993, the public fora have been held yearly-with some minor
improvements-to develop concrete proposals for improvements and investments.
2.    Similar levels of participation also exist in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region.
An inter-municipal forum was created to address issues that were decentralized from the state
to the municipal level. This has become extremely important as the municipalities are
increasingly providing social services to the poorer sectors of Belo Horizonte. This forum
routinely interacts with the state government, and various other actors, including other
governmental agencies, universities, churches, unions, companies and professional
organizations to develop and implement projects. The primary focus has been children at risk;
to date, projects exist to: improve health services to poor children, reduce child labor within
the BHMR, create after-school programs for children at risk.
3.    In addition, Minas' involvement with various development projects financed by Bank
and the Inter-American Development Bank have contained major participatory components.
The state's experience with the Northeast Rural Development Project (PAPP-MG, Loan
2861-BR), Minas Gerais Basic Education Quality Improvement Program (ProQualidade
- Loan 3733-BR); Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (PROSAM
- Loan 3554-BR) have given the state concrete examples of how to incorporate participation
in a variety of sectoral projects.
4.    The Government of Minas Gerais has been actively debating its state privatization
program in public. Through a system of public fora the Government holds regular
consultations with interested groups. The government has also been actively debating the
major elements of its Reform Program in the state assembly and in the press, through articles
signed by the Governor, and Vice-Governor and Secretary of Planning. The government has
sought, to the extent practicable, to allow a high level of public participation in the
preparation of their reform and privatization program. Moreover, when designing certain
aspects of the state's reform program (e.g., severance payments and funding of pension



56                               Annex F
liabilities), the state worked with stakeholders to pinpoint potential areas of conflict to help
arrive at mutually acceptable agreements.
4.    In addition, the adoption of a regulatory agency as a function of the privatizations and
granting of concessions under the State Reform Program will create a new avenue for
community participation. The adoption of an independent regulatory agency will ensure that
consumers are informed of their rights, and are treated in a fair, efficient, and transparent
manner. While many branch offices of state utilities currently have customer service offices,
they are not effectively regulated by the state. Instead, they regulate themselves, with
proactive input from municipalities.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28732
505                                                                                                                                                            4T
This  Nmo    ppDdN Eh   pDesgn U,i   f J The World BAT.                    1                                              B A  H  I A                                                                                    BRAZIL
ThbDDD      -I.", .5NaT1aDTTDDDhRi ,mDf--i-E D.                                                                                                                                                              MINAS  GERAIS  STATE
EDDDDT- hi, TJ -IP TDTDTI,D - ETD-CToI6 W.,IdD 8-G-p,
-r                          pTT-,D-h.  dTi.eg   - d -  _r  -y  ME.--                                                                                                                                       PRIVATIZATION   PROJECT
15                                                                              j i, ..... J_-                                                                                                                              ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
1F. D  .            .                               Jo-D6'ioQ                                       NT                                           15                  0      SELECTED CITIES
01   As   ~~~~~~~~~~   I                                  0ionoLbo                       1--..                                                            STATE CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j) STTECAITL
G O I A          s             v._RASiLI5o,,_! 0 g ;pedpo A:ul                                                   ..- *                                           STATE BOUNDARIES
i )t AITTTT8ED    /                    ~-                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Goiono   ,   ,;                                             J                   ~~~          ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vl l  f
MOTTET CIDED0
ECNMCRGIONS                 EMTMC
I METALURGICA E CAMPOS DAS VERTENTES  517
o  NOTDqD.Q                            II ~~~~~~~~~~~MATA                          8%
OT.6filp                               ~~~~~~~~~III SUL                            137
TO        i                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V TRIANGULO E ALTO PARANAIBA  11%
0U,DTTO            ~~~~~VIII.                                                   V  ALTO SAG FRANCISCO                      4%
0APOgDDD| | |                                                                                             '~'          \    \                            VI NOROESTE                                 57
0A.-   i                                                                                 OD-TETG- dED                                                        VII JEQUITINHONHIA                          2%
0IbTUbrlT 6b dia               PDTTDciD,D0                                                                  V. odoTesC                                                          VIII RIO DOCE                               67
o    'N'f                                                          t               V             g                                                        X  ESPIRITO                                                                  TOTAL     1007
RD,  SETOLD            ROTE DE:D    SANTO
u- JB d        ..D...                                                                                                                                          _ __-_ /___o
Fse.*                        -T E                                                                                                                                                     55         15 5       15 4        2M0
K LOMEUETERSAN
20-
9--o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
0ITDID~~~f.I ~RIO  DE JANEIRO                                                                                               eBR A  ZI L
Rio de J.-Tiro)
AoP-olo
PARANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ' ATRDTO
MAY 1997



