Report No. PIC4972
Project Name           Brazil-State Privatization Project (SPP) (+)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       BRPE40033
Borrower                         The State of Minas Gerais
Guarantor                        The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              State Ministry of Planning
Country Contact                  To Be Determined
Date PID Prepared                April 14, 1997
Project Appraisal                March 3, 1997
Projected Board Date             June 26, 1996
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background. Brazil's public sector is
highly decentralized. Its government is comprised of the federal
government, 26 state governments, a federal district, and
approximately 4,300 local governments or municipalities.
Democratization and constitutional revisions in the 1980s increased
the degree of resources under sub-national control, and the degree
of local political autonomy in their allocation. Approximately half
of budgetary public expenditures are now made by sub-national
governments.
2.      Brazil will soon complete the third year of a stabilization
plan that has seen an impressive reduction in the monthly rate of
inflation, from about 40 percent at mid-1994 to around 0.35 percent
currently. The economy has grown at an annual rate of close to 3.5
percent over the same period, while the external current account
deficit has been limited to about 3.0 percent of GDP. Strong
capital inflows have permitted a buildup in international reserves
to US$59 billion at end-January 1997, or nine months of imports of
goods and services. However, fiscal policy weakened in 1995 and
1996, with the operational balance of the public sector declining
from a surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP in 1994 to a deficit of 3.9
percent in 1996. The primary balance slipped into deficit in 1996
(-0.1 percent of GDP), from a surplus of 5.2 percent in 1994. The
most important factors behind this deterioration were an increase
in wages and a much higher domestic interest bill resulting from
tight monetary policy and an accumulation of internal debt by
federal and state governments.
3.      Minas Gerais is Brazil's second largest state in terms of
population, with 15.7 million inhabitants; it also has the second
largest (tied with the State of Rio de Janeiro) state economy in
Brazil. The present administration, which took office on January 1,
1995, inherited a difficult fiscal situation, with large



commitments to personnel and a heavy debt burden. Since the Federal
Constitution prohibits the dismissal of confirmed civil servants
and mandates expensive pension benefits, the state had little room
to maneuver. Moreover, its ability to raise revenue is limited by
federal restrictions on the rates of the state's principal tax. The
state administration responded by freezing new hiring, undertaking
a voluntary staff dismissal program, restraining spending on
capital investments, and taking advantage of the Federal
Government's willingness to capitalize state bonds, thereby
deferring Rs$1.2 billion in interest payments. These measures were
insufficient to forestall a major cash flow deficit, and by the end
of 1996, Minas' total stock of debt increased to Rs.$14.5 billion.
4.      The Minas Gerais State Privatization Project (SPP) is one of
four state privatization projects planned for Brazil. As initially
conceived, the projects had two objectives: immediate fiscal
adjustment and longer-term structural reform. A crucial element of
fiscal adjustment was a debt workout between the states and the
federal government. While a debt protocol has been signed between
the State of Minas Gerais and the Federal Government, it is
insufficient for the state's fiscal recovery in the near term. In
response, the project was modified and now focuses almost
exclusively on structural objectives.
5.      Objectives. The project's main objective is to support the
state's privatization and concession program, making the state
government less vulnerable to losses on banking operations and more
efficient in the delivery of highway, gas, and water supply
services. The project will also support decentralization of school
and health sector expenditures, as well as high priority road
maintenance and rehabilitation work during the adjustment period.
6.      Description. The project consists in the carrying out key
actions linked to the project objective. The loan will disburse
against two time-slices of eligible reform costs of US$100 million
each, once the conditions for each time-slice are met. The first
time-slice disbursement of US$100 million would be released
promptly after loan effectiveness since actions required for
disbursement have been implemented prior to board presentation. The
second time-slice disbursement of US$100 million--planned for the
first semester of 1998, would be released following a positive
review of the second time-slice actions.
7.      Financing. Total project costs are estimated at US$1.5
billion. These costs include: (a) the losses incurred by the two
state bank, Credireal and BEMGE; (b) severance payments for staff
dismissed from the state's direct administration and state-owned
enterprises; (c) reform-related studies, consultants training and
equipment, including the modernization of the Secretary of the
Treasury; (d) incremental grants for municipal health consortia,
health service outsourcing, and family preventative medicine; (e)
incremental salaries of the reform program; and (f) high priority
investments for road maintenance and school maintenance and
equipment during the reform period.
- 2-



8.      Implementation. The Government of the State of Minas Gerais
would be the Borrower, and the Federative Republic of Brazil would
be the guarantor. A Project Implementation Unit will established
within the Ministry of Planning. This unit will coordinate the
implementation and supervision of the key actions with other state
ministries.
9.      Sustainability. The privatization project consists of reforms
that are inherently difficult to reverse. Once sold, banks and
public utilities are difficult to repurchase. Concession contracts
for water supply should be difficult to abrogate. However, the
establishment of a transparent and fair regulatory framework for
the private provision of public services may be vulnerable in its
first years of operations as it represents a radical change in the
way the government has so far delivered public services. In
addition, the state's regulatory framework will require constant
adjustments to make it compatible with the framework the Federal
Government is slowly developing.
10.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
Key lessons have been drawn from the Bank's extensive experience in
the reform of the public sector. First, projects must focus on a
few significant reforms that are hard to reverse--such as
privatization of public enterprises and banks, and reforms passed
through legislation--and that can be fully implemented during the
mandate of a government. Second, project design and implementation
arrangements must be flexible enough to achieve targeted reform
objectives. Third, as reform projects for subnational governments
can have high supervision costs, project implementation should seek
to include as much private participation as possible in such areas
as auditing and procurement. Finally, to ensure commitment in
implementation, the initiative to undertake the project components
should be the government's. The Bank's role should be to provide
technical and financial support.
11.     Poverty Category. Not applicable.
12.     Environmental Aspects. The Minas Gerais SPP will not have
adverse environmental impacts. The program will likely improve
environmental performance through better environmental oversight of
current state enterprises as well as increased investment in and
improved management of water and sewerage systems. The project has
been classified as "B" regarding the potential environmental
impact. Prior to each sale or concessioning of a facility with
potentially significant environmental problems, an environmental
audit would be prepared and an agreement would be reached among the
responsible entities on environmental performance targets and on
remedying identified problems.
13.     Program Objective Categories. Privatization (BP).
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 3 -



Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
14.     The proposed project would finance reforms that would have
neutral or beneficial environmental impacts. The program will
likely improve environmental performance through better
environmental oversight of current state enterprises as well as
increased investment in and improved management of water and
sanitation systems. The project has been classified as Category B
regarding its potential environmental impact. A detailed
discussion of environmental aspects of the state's State
Privatization Project appears in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Environmental Safeguards
15.     The environmental obligations of the new owner/operator in
the gas, roads, and water and sewerage sectors would be determined
before the time of sale/concessioning in order to: (a) reduce the
uncertainty for potential private sector investors about their
environmental obligations; and (b) allow improvements in
environmental performance of the affected operations. Following an
environmental audit, and still before the time of concessioning or
sale, agreement would be reached among the responsible entities on
environmental performance targets including the time and the
responsible party for remedying the identified problems.
16.     Gas Distribution. Before the time of sale or concessioning of
the state gas distribution company (GASMIG), the consultants, which
are assisting the state in the preparation of the privatization
would carry out the following tasks:
(a) a review of the environmental regulatory framework and
monitoring and enforcement capacity of the responsible agencies
with respect to safety and environmental issues in the gas sector,
resulting in recommendations for improvements and strengthening
activities;
(b) an environmental audit of GASMIG, covering a physical
inspection of the facilities, including safety aspects (checking
pipelines and other systems for corrosions and leaks) and
management of wastes (condensates) from the system with
recommendations for necessary measures taken, their time, cost and
responsible party; and
(c) a review and recommendations for necessary improvements
of procedures and activities that affect system safety (such as
procedures for maintenance and repairs).
17.     Highway Maintenance Concessions. The highway maintenance
concessions to be awarded under the project are for normal
maintenance activities, such as repaving, but do not include
widening, realignment, extension or construction of new roads, with
the exception of the widening of a short stretch of highway where
the right of way has been acquired, no resettlement issues or
significant environmental problems exist, and earthworks have
already been completed. The concession contracts would contain
- 5 -



clauses to ensure the application of sound environmental practices
by the concessionaires. The consultants currently preparing the
concessioning of road maintenance would perform the following tasks
before the time of concessioning:
(a) a review of the environmental regulatory framework and
enforcement capacity as it relates to highway maintenance
activities and recommendations for their improvements;
(b) preparation of proposals for concession contract clauses
that would ensure sound environmental practices by the
concessionaire; and
(c) compilation of the technical information required to
assess the measures necessary for regularization of roads that do
not yet have an environmental license.
18.     The project will also finance high-priority road conservation
and rehabilitation. Road maintenance works do not require an
environmental license. However, it was agreed that the road
maintenance contracts would include explicit clauses ensuring the
environmentally acceptable behavior of the contractors (covering
issues such as construction wastes, construction camp management
and equipment maintenance). The contracts would be enforced by the
State Roads Department (DER/MG). In addition, the contracts would
require a valid environmental license for extraction and disposal
sites, borrow pits, and asphalt plants. These licenses are issued
and enforced by State Environmental Protection Foundation (FEAM).
19.     Water and Sanitation Sector. The water and sewerage sector is
the main source of water pollution in the state. To date, there is
very little sewage treatment, and raw sewage from sewage collection
systems and uncollected runoffs directly enter the waterbodies. One
of the reasons for considering increased private sector
participation in the water and sewerage sector is the need to
generate the financing needed to expand basic sewerage services and
associated wastewater treatment. The planned reforms would have,
thus, a significant positive environmental effect, and if properly
designed, could contribute to improved environmental management in
the state.
20.     Since the environmental targets to be set for the new
utilities will be a critical factor in determining both the
economic feasibility and the environmental consequences of
restructuring, it is of critical importance that a consistent set
of environmental targets and obligations for the restructured
utilities be developed early in the process through a coordinated
mechanism between the water and sewerage sector, on the one hand,
and the environment sector, on the other hand.
21.     So far, specific locations and timetables for the
privatization of water and sewerage systems have not been decided.
However, the state has contracted a consulting firm to present
proposals for the restructuring of the water and sewerage sector.
The work of the consultants includes the following tasks:
- 6 -



review of the regulatory framework and monitoring and enforcement
capacity of the responsible agencies for overseeing environmental
and drinking water quality regulations and recommendations of
necessary improvements and strengthening activities; and
proposals for ensuring coordination between environmental/health
regulations and the financial terms and concessionaire obligations
specified in the contract both in regard to the initial
requirements and adjustments through the life of the concession
contracts.
22.     Once specific systems have been identified for private sector
concessions, the state--with the assistance of the consultants
preparing the specific concessions-- will carry out the following
tasks before the time of concessioning:
(a) environmental audits for compliance with national
requirements and international standards, covering the operation of
drinking water plants and quality of water distributed to
consumers, including sampling and analytical procedures and
monitoring equipment, as well as, wastewater treatment plants,
including the quality of discharged wastewater, air emissions and
solid waste management (including adequacy of solid waste disposal
facilities); including costs and schedules for the recommended
measures to address identified problems; and
(b) estimation of the environmental and financial impact of
several alternative scenarios of different wastewater treatment
targets over time.
23.     Before the time of concessioning a specific system, the state
will determine the environmental obligations and wastewater
treatment targets for the concessionaire on the basis of this
technical work. The requirements of the concession contract would
refer to and/or be consistent with the requirements of the
environmental license to be issued for such system. The state is
committed to implement the necessary measures to improve the
environmental and health regulatory framework, including setting up
an effective system of drinking water quality surveillance
-7 -



