                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29081

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (CPL-38620 SCL-3862A SCPD-3862S TF-50624)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                              BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

                                                FOR AN


                               AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2004




ESSD Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru & Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                                   Currency Unit = Venezuelan Bolivares (VEB)
                                   VEB 1598.00 = US$ 1.00
                                  US$ 00066257 = 1 VEB

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 - December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACEs      Asociaciones Civiles de Extension (Producer Associations)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIARA     Fundacion para la Capacitacion e Investigacion aplicada a la Reforma Agraria
ESSD      Environmentally Sustainable Social Development
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization (Naciones Unidas para la Alimentacion y la Familia)
FONVIS    Fondo Nacional de Venezuela
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ILI       Learning ICR
IMDERURAL Institute for Extension Program in Merida State
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
LCSER     Latin America and the Caribbean Region Rural Development Family
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MCU       The Management and Coordination Unit (Unidad de Administracion y Coordinacion)
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MTR       Mid Term Review
NBF       Not Bank Financed
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non Governmental Organizations (Organizaciones no Gubernamentales ­ ONG)
NPV       Net Present Value
PCD       Project Concept Document
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit (Unidad Coordinadora del Programa ­ UCP)
PREA      Programa de Extension Agricola en Venezuela
PRODECOP  Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales Pobres
PROSALAFA Programa de Apoyo a Pequenos Productores y Pescadores Artesenales de la Zona Semiarida de
          los Estatados Lara y Falcón
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SMS       Subject Matter Specialists
TA        Adaptive technologies




                                  Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                               Country Director:     Marcelo Giugale
                                Sector Director:     John Redwood
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Matthew A. McMahon

                                        VENEZUELA
                                Agricultural Extension Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower ICR                                                            28
Map: Venezuela IBRD 33331

Project ID: P008222                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Extension Project
Team Leader: Matthew A. Mcmahon                                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Extension Project                           L/C/TF Number: CPL-38620; SCL-3862A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3862S; TF-50624
   Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (100%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Pollution management and environmental
                            health (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and
                            civic engagement (S); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/11/1993                                      Effective: 06/15/1995               03/29/1996
     Appraisal: 07/26/1994                                         MTR: 06/15/1998                  11/20/1998
      Approval: 03/28/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA/Ministry of Agriculture and Land/Fundación para
                                           la Capacitación e Investigación Aplicada a la Reforma Agraria (CIARA)
                      Other Partners:      Paticipating States; Participating Municipalities; Beneficiaries

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Rainer B. Steckhan
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Kreszentia Duer
Team Leader at ICR:             Matthew A. McMahon                             David Nielson
ICR Primary Author:             Suzanne Raswant (FAO/CP) and
                                Matthew A. McMahon with
                                support from Indira J.
                                Ekanayake; Sammuel Taffesse;
                                and Santiago Sandoval.


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

This was to assist poor farmers to become aware of, and to adopt, improved technology to enhance their
productive efficiency and their economic welfare, to improve the environmental sustainability of their
farming operations, and to accomplish this through supporting the establishment of a new decentralized
public agricultural extension service to serve the needs of poor farmers who are not currently able to
secure adequate extension services (SAR, 1995).

At the time of project preparation, Venezuela's existing public extension system had become almost
totally ineffective. Better programs developed by some public and private institutions were too intensive
and too expensive to serve the needs of small farmers.            It was a good moment to propose the
establishment of a new public agricultural extension system responsive to the needs of small farmers.
The decentralized system relying on the private sector for the actual provision of services was a bold
innovation.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The overall development objective of the project was not revised but, at an early stage, May 1995, a
gender perspective was introduced. The project was reoriented to include women on an equal footing
with men as project beneficiaries and as members of the producer associations - ACEs (Asociaciones
Civiles de Extensión) and to incorporate a gender focus in training of extension workers. As a result of
the initial diagnostic studies of the municipalities during which communities expressed their requirements
with respect to economic development, the need to consider social aspects became evident and these
aspects were consequently given more attention in the course of the project than originally envisaged.

At the time of the Mid Term Review (MTR), it was agreed to focus on improving project performance by
(a) improving the quality of the extension service and (b) strengthening decentralization of the service.

3.3 Original Components:

There were four original components: (1) Institutional Development; (2) Municipal Extension; (3) Training
for Extensionists; and (4) Technical Assistance and Studies.
Total Project Cost: US$ 68.2 million

Institutional Development (US$ 12.3 million, 18% of base costs): To set up and support the institutional
entities at both national and state levels of government that would coordinate and administer the project
and the national decentralized agricultural extension system, which it would establish.

Municipal Extension (US$ 44.6 million, 65% of base costs): To support the establishment of the
institutional structure for the agricultural extension system at the municipal level involving the formation
of ACEs in each participating municipality and the cost of contracting executing agencies to establish
municipal extension offices and provide extension services.

Training for Extensionists (US$5.8 million, 9% of base costs): To establish and support a training
program for the employees of the agricultural extension system which would introduce extension
personnel to the new extension system and would strengthen and maintain their professional
competencies in technical and methodological areas related to their responsibilities in the extension
system.

Technical Assistance and Studies (US$5.5 million, 8% of base costs): To fund studies and technical
assistance designed to enable on-going planning, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation as
well as others, agreed on by the Bank and the Borrower, which would improve the effectiveness of



                                                      - 2 -

implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised but, primarily because of significant difficulties in the flow of
counterpart resources from the central Government and less than expected contributions from states,
municipalities and beneficiaries, there were revisions to the budget.         The cancelled loan amount
according to the borrower's request due to country reasons in 2001 was US$ 8 million. While planned
expenditure on Municipal Extension remained close to the original budget, the share of Institutional
Development was emphasized at the expense of Training and Technical Studies.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The decentralized extension system was an innovation in the Venezuelan context and much work went
into the project preparation process, which extended over two and a half years.            The project was
thoroughly prepared with respect to the institutional aspects of the extension system. Less consideration
was given to the relationship between the extension service and agricultural research, partly because
there was a backlog of available, but unadopted technologies and also due to the existence of an IDB
supported Agricultural Research Project, which was expected to be complementary to the extension
project but which was subsequently cancelled.            Despite detailed provisions for training of all
extension-related personnel, no provision was made for training of ACE members.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The most important achievement of the project, which underlies expectations of continuing impact, is the
establishment of the new decentralized extension service directly responsible to beneficiaries through the
ACEs. By establishing a grassroots capacity for administration of local development initiatives - the
ACEs - the project has provided a vehicle for poverty reduction as the communities find themselves in a
position to use financial resources from other sources for the direct benefit of their members. In 2003,
the ACEs were able to access the VEB 10 billion (approximately US$ 5 million) of the Government's
"Sobremarcha" program, directed towards small and medium sized farmers in rural areas, because they
were in a position to present viable projects and guarantee the responsible use of funds. This enlarged
role of the ACEs, as a community development association, goes beyond the original concept of the
project but serves the ultimate development objective of poverty reduction. Therefore, the successful
establishment of a new decentralized infrastructure for extension in the country, despite its limitations in
scope is the key achievement of this project.

The overall objective of assisting farmers to increase their productive capacity has been achieved
satisfactorily albeit more slowly than anticipated (over eight years rather than six), and to a lesser extent
than predicted (45,000 beneficiaries with an adoption rate of 29.5% rather than 65,000). The project
appears to have reached its intended target group of small and poor farmers, who have been very
appreciative of project activities and developed close relationships with extensionists.

Extension activities to promote environmental sustainability focused on the reduction and correct use of
agrochemicals, soil and water conservation practices, and treatment of organic waste to produce
fertilizer. Assessment of the technological innovations promoted by the extension nuclei indicates that
over 35% of innovations were concerned with environmental aspects, predominantly the correct use of
agrochemicals.

Over one quarter of project direct beneficiaries and members of ACEs were women, indicating the
success of the project's strategy to ensure women's access to extension services on the same basis as
men. Women were particularly active in activities involving micro-enterprises and group activities and
have expressed their desire for additional services.




                                                    - 3 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Institutional Development. This component focused on providing support at the national/central and
state levels of government to administer the project and the decentralized extension system. CIARA an
autonomous governmental organization was the project implementer. The Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU), succeeded in exercising full control over all aspects of the project. The key accomplishment was
to establish a centralized system that serves as the model for future national expansion of decentralized
extension services. Participation of states in the project grew steadily to reach the target of 18 in 2001
(out of 23 states), although one state - Aragua - was subsequently dropped owing to lack of any
co-financing (see the attached map). The PCU was very active and provided strong and effective
direction to the project.    Supervision missions frequently commended the PCU for keeping up the
momentum in project activities under particularly difficult financial circumstances when resources from
the central government budget were held back. Staffing was relatively stable and committed to the
project objectives with a resulting enthusiasm, which permeated to the project beneficiaries. Technically,
the PCU was short-staffed in the initial years, with only 3 out of 6 specialists in post, but from 2000, the
full strength of 6 technical specialists was attained. The PCU focused on the grassroots, providing direct
support to the municipal extension nuclei, and its success is reflected in the number of nuclei
incorporated in the project, which at one time, reached 87% of the target. Following the MTR, an effort
was made to withdraw from a direct relationship with the nuclei and provide support to state coordinators
and the producer organizations (ACEs) to strengthen the decentralization of the extension system. By
the time the project ended, 91% of the nuclei had fully operational ACEs, which had assumed
responsibility for contracting of the extension services. Overall expenditure on this component was
98.8% of the revised estimated of 15.94 million, with the bulk of resources going to support the PCU.
Expenditure at the state level was only 13% of the original planned amount.

The pattern of expenditure reflects the difficulties associated with moving from a centrally controlled
system to a decentralized one. It also captures the challenge to the PCU to achieve all the objectives
stated in the SAR such as setting up fully functional state-level coordinating offices. In order to speed up
decentralization and overcome some of the difficulties of implementation, the PCU entered into direct
contracts with extension nuclei at the municipal level, bypassing the states, even though the states had
entered into general agreements to support the decentralized extension service. State coordinators
assigned to the project were generally middle-ranking officials, who frequently did not have direct access
to State Governors, with a resulting loss of influence for the project. This was reflected in the relatively
low financial contribution of the states to the extension system, which was only about 54% of the amount
envisaged. The MTR highlighted the detrimental impact of the state coordinators' lack of capacity to
participate in the decentralized extension system and there was an effort in the latter years of the project
to strengthen the states' coordinating role. In 2001, a workshop was held to train state coordinators in the
review and approval of extension agencies' financial reports and responsibility for this was then
transferred to them, as a first step in the direct contracting of extension agents by local authorities. By
the end of the project such training led towards operational ACEs' financial accountability.

Municipal Extension. This was the key component and, justifiably, received the focus of attention.
Extension teams in the first five municipalities were established even before the project was declared
effective. Throughout, the requirement that extensionists reside in their area of work was adhered to and
ensured a close relationship with beneficiaries. Although participating states and municipalities signed
agreements with CIARA (PCU) as planned, a significant difference with respect to the planned procedure
was that CIARA contracted the extension agents directly. As a result, extension plans were submitted to
the PCU for approval, instead of through state coordinating offices. Part of the explanation for this
procedure, was the slow establishment of the ACEs. While it had been envisaged that the ACEs'
responsibilities with respect to the extension service would only gradually increase to the stage of direct
supervision and contracting, in fact, even the establishment of ACEs received little emphasis in the initial
years. At the time of the Mid Term review, only 42 ACEs had been formed, although 103 municipalities
were participating in the project. It was proposed at that time that ACE directors receive training so that



                                                     - 4 -

they could better represent their members and carry out their envisaged roles in the decentralized
extension system, an area that had been overlooked at the time of appraisal. The negligible contribution
of beneficiaries to the financing of the extension system, less than 1% of the planned amount, was
probably another consequence of the slow establishment of the ACEs. By the end of the project, it was
acknowledged in a final workshop that the transfer of responsibilities to the ACEs was one of the main
positive achievements of the project, but the need for continued training of directors was underlined.

A critical aspect of the Municipal Extension component was the proposed shift in financing from the
central government to local authorities including beneficiaries. In addition to the beneficiaries, neither
the states (54%) nor the municipalities (18%) met the financing targets. The contributions declined over
the years until 2002 when, in the context of a financial crisis at the central level with no resources coming
from that source, states and municipalities actually came through with more funds to ensure some
continuity of the extension service. This is a tribute to the successful establishment of the system and of
its appreciation by beneficiaries. It also represented a significant change in attitude, with local authorities
accepting at least partial responsibility for support of the system.

Extension methodologies were successfully demand-driven and included a wide array of diffusion
methods. The professional profile of extension workers was high and motivation excellent. However,
there were shortcomings in field proficiency, which were not adequately addressed, in the training
programs provided. Although 643 extension projects were carried out over the course of the project,
introducing 4,126 technological innovations, the number of direct beneficiaries was less than foreseen,
averaging only about 360 per nucleus. The evaluation of 20 nuclei with over 3 years participation in the
project suggests that horticulture crops proved the most beneficial.

Training.     Although supervision missions persistently emphasized the need for technical training to
strengthen the extension workers' response to problems encountered in the field, this was one of the
weakest aspects of the project (only 13 courses for 428 extensionists). Emphasis was given to induction
training of new extensionists in the methodology of the decentralized system (31 courses for 935
extension workers) where the focus was on organization and extension methods.                  While this was
appropriate at the early stages of the project, the provision made for technical in-service training should
have been taken up. Indeed, more extensionists received training in gender than in technical matters,
reflecting project management's concern about social aspects of community development. Training was
also provided for over 500 directors of ACEs. Although an initial shortage of Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS) at the national level may have been partly to blame for the inadequate technical training, as well
as insufficient involvement in the project of national research authorities, the main problem was the
ongoing one of obtaining the resources from the central budget. In a situation of shortage of funds,
training was (correctly) considered more expendable than maintenance of the extension nuclei. Overall,
only 62% of the original budget for this component was spent, but it was 100% of the revised budget.

Technical Assistance and Studies. This was the component, which suffered most from the financial
problems faced by the project disbursing only 9% of the SAR and 44% of the revised budget. The main
output was the diagnostic studies of the participating municipalities, while, at the end of the project,
certain impact evaluation studies were financed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At appraisal the net present value (NPV) and economic rates of return were not calculated as the project
focused essentially on institution building and the emphasis was on developing or identifying
technologies in response to producer requirements.

An economic evaluation was conducted at the end of the project, on twenty subproject nuclei that were
three or more years old and had been in continuous operation. The sample included all 13 of the
municipalities incorporated in 1996 that continue to operate at project closure, plus one that ceased
operation during the final months of the project, as well as seven municipalities that were incorporated in
1997.    The wide variability and range in the calculated internal rate of return (IRR) values for the
subproject nuclei on extension (Annex 3 Table 3a) reflects the inherent variability in return to extension



                                                      - 5 -

programs worldwide and the wide range of technological initiatives undertaken in this project. One of the
factors strongly correlated with the high IRRs was the presence of horticultural extension projects within
the nucleus.

Economic analysis of technologies diffused and adopted under the project showed very positive results
with 60% of technologies having IRRs in excess of 100% (Annex 3 Table 3b; CIARA, 2003b). Part of the
explanation for these high rates (273%) for extension activities lies in the fact that: a) the basic
techniques communicated were already developed but not presented to farmers prior to the project
therefore not requiring investment costs for actual development of the technology, b) rapid identification
of multiple technological opportunities and generation of impact through diffusion of the extended
technologies, and c) diffusion required modest investment per nucleus. The high rates of return on the
other hand beg the question of why the adoption rate was so low (29.5%). Possible answers lie in the
initial mistrust of a state extension system as well as the lack of any strategy of mass diffusion of
technologies. There also might have been some shortage of financial resources as well as risk aversion.

In terms of cost effectiveness, the project may be considered to have been less cost effective than
expected owing to the much smaller number of direct beneficiaries. However, it should be noted that the
main impact of the project at this juncture is institutional, setting the stage for future expansion at much
lower cost.    The incorporation of existing technologies that were relatively easy to extend with no
additional investment in research moreover had a significant impact on the farm productivity of small
low-resource farmers with low initial levels of technology and productivity.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

 At appraisal and at the end of the project no financial analysis was carried out either for the project as
a whole or for specific technologies.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is impressive. In a country with no tradition of
decentralized services, the project succeeded in introducing a decentralized agricultural extension
service, relying on contracted extensionists from the private sector working for local community
organizations. Although the ACE's only took over full responsibility for contracting the extension services
towards the end of the project, they became involved in preparation and approval of extension plans at a
relatively early stage. The resulting empowerment of the local communities has implications beyond the
agricultural sector. A result of the creation and strengthening of the ACEs has been the establishment of
a local power base capable of interaction with authorities at state and even national levels, as seen in the
involvement of ACE representatives in discussions with the Minister of Agriculture and the President of
the National Rural Development Institute when the project faced budgetary problems. Through the
participatory experience of creating the extension system, the project has managed to develop and
validate a bottom-up planning methodology involving the coordination of different local authorities
(states, municipalities and local communities), which is in a position to provide support to other
initiatives.

One area where the institutional development was less successful was in the linkages with research.
Although members of research institutes expressed their availability to participate in project activities,
budget limitations, which led to a cutback in technical training, restricted the scope for participation with
the result that no strong linkages were established.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The political events, which led to the financial crisis in 2002, were largely outside the control of
government. The cancellation of the anticipated Agricultural Research Project by the IDB may also be



                                                     - 6 -

considered outside its control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Coordination between the government, the national Assembly and the World Bank led to revision of the
2003 budget, an estimation at the closing date, all of which helped to resolve the financial problems
which had reached a crisis in 2002.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Low turnover of personnel in the PCU and CIARA helped ensure continuity in administration and a strong
project team, which was able to intervene promptly to resolve implementation issues.             A policy of
promotion from within the project helped to maintain motivation and provide experienced managers.
Transparency in the selection of extension contractors provided the basis for trust in the new system
even where there were political differences at the state or municipal level.        It is possible that the
emphasis by the PCU on induction training of extensionists in the project approach and the methodology
of extension, at the expense of technical training, helped orient the project towards a greater social and
institutional impact rather than a more significant one on production. However, it may be argued that this
was essential to ensure the effective decentralization of the system at this preliminary stage.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project budget was revised from US$ 79 million to US$ 63.4 million and expenditure as of 31
December 2003 was US$ 59.68 million, of which US$ 23.07 million came from the World Bank loan. In
terms of category of expenditure, the Municipal Extension Service received a significant increase in
budget from US$ 28.8 million (of which, World Bank: US$ 13.5 million) to US$ 40.88 million (World
Bank: US$ 16.52 million) at the expense of the category of recurrent costs. As planned, the Municipal
Extension Component absorbed the bulk of resources (68.5% by 31 December 2003). Expenditure on
Institutional Development exceeded expectations (27.2% of total costs) at the expense of Training
(3.48%) and Studies and Technical Assistance (0.8%).

An important characteristic of the decentralized extension system, as conceived at Appraisal, was to be
the shared financing of the municipal extension service. The portion financed by central government
(including World Bank resources) was to decline from 75% in the first year to 25% in the final year of the
project. This did not occur, and the central government alone (excluding World Bank funds) ended up
covering over 48.6% of the cost of the component, over three times as much as initially planned. While
the participating states and municipalities made a considerable effort to pay for their share of costs in the
first two years of the project, contributions declined thereafter until 2002, when, particularly the state
governments under pressure from the beneficiaries, made an effort to come up with some resources in
the absence of any funding from the center. After a very small contribution in the first two years, no
further financing was forthcoming directly from beneficiaries despite promptings from supervision
missions. On the other hand, a new concept of the need to actively look for funding for services, as
opposed to passively waiting for the funding to appear, was successfully introduced. This is considered
by project management to be one of the achievements of the project. However, given the low level of
resources provided by states and municipalities for financing the extension service, there will need to be
some very active advocacy if substantial resources from the center are not forthcoming. The failure to
ensure higher contributions from local authorities and beneficiaries is one of the weaknesses of the
project.

5.4.1 Financial Management and Audit

The project had a number of minor financial and audit issues in relation to internal controls and late
submissions of audit reports, which were corrected on request of the Bank in a timely and acceptable
manner.




                                                     - 7 -

5.4.2 Disbursement Plan

The disbursed loan amount of the Bank contribution was 23.555 million reflecting 63.44% of the original
principal of 37.124 million. The undisbursed and cancelled amount at the project ending was 5.569
million (by May 21, 2004). The loan disbursement was affected by the lack of counterpart funding during
the crisis and excess fund availability during good economic times in the country. This resulted in delays
in project implementation, which was 50 months by the original lag and 22 months by the formerly
revised lag of fund disbursements. The project was also constrained by erratic counterpart financing, a
reflection of the political and economic condition of the country. Nevertheless, the counterpart
contribution was more than 43% of project financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

A promising indicator of sustainability lies in the example of a few states, which have already taken the
initiative to strengthen the extension program on their own account. In Portuguesa, Lara, Falcón and
Barinas, the state governments and some municipalities decided to provide their own funds for the
employment of additional extension workers following the procedures of the project. In the state of
Mérida, an institute ­ IMDERURAL ­ has been created which has taken over execution of the extension
program in the state, making a commitment to co-financing and general support of the service.

At the national level, CIARA has already requested a budget for 2004 for the extension service from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, which has been approved by the Ministry in the amount of Bs. 7.7
billion (approximately US$ 4 million) and submitted to the National Assembly. The Consejos Locales de
Planificación Publica and the Consejos Legislativos are currently considering co-financing from state
governments and municipalities of the order of approximately Bs. 2.5 billion each in the context of
budget reviews. Altogether, the total amount would be of the order of Bs. 12.8 billion, approximately
US$ 6.7 million.

The plan for 2004 is to work in 100 municipalities in 14 states. Bilateral agreements have already been
signed with the 14 states and trilateral agreements (CIARA/state/municipality) with 100 municipalities.
By legalizing 6 ACEs currently operating informally and incorporating 10 others, it is planned to work with
100 formally constituted ACEs. The agreements between CIARA and the ACEs provide for the ACEs to
assume responsibility for contracting, supervising and evaluating the extension agents and contain a
commitment on the part of CIARA to transfer the financial resources required for this to the ACEs.
Herein lies a certain weakness, in so far as sustainability is concerned, as the ACEs remain reliant on
funding coming through CIARA.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The proposed budget and operations for 2004, described above, are essentially a transitional
arrangement. A project document (CIARA, 2003d) is in the course of preparation locally which draws
on the lessons learned from three projects which CIARA has managed recently: the Proyecto de
Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales Pobres (PRODECOP) and the Programa de Apoyo a Pequenos
Productores y Pescadores Artesenales de la Zona Semiárida de los Estados Lara y Falcón
(PROSALAFA) as well as the extension project, in order to propose a Rural Development Extension
Project. While maintaining key elements of the Agricultural Extension Project, such as the decentralized
system focused on the ACEs and the concept of co-financing, the new project, as proposed, is broader in
scope, focusing on strengthening the social, economic and political capacities of the rural population. In
other words, it is more oriented towards capacity building of the ACEs as multipurpose community
organizations, rather than simply as vehicles for enhancing agricultural productivity. It is likely that, even
in the absence of World Bank support, the extension system will evolve into a broader based system, as
this is felt locally to respond better to the expressed requirements of the rural population.




                                                      - 8 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Venezuela, which was to support
increased efficiency and decentralization of public services, private sector development, poverty
alleviation, and environmental protection.     The proposal to establish a new decentralized extension
system filled a void left by the almost total ineffectiveness of the existing public extension system and
the formal discontinuation of its municipal offices. Project preparation was thorough and the initial pilot
operations in two states and five municipalities provided a model for subsequent development.
Preparation of a detailed Manual Operativo, a Project Launch Workshop and model agreements between
CIARA and other project partners all helped to provide a sound basis for project operations.

While the proposed shift in funding of the extension system from the central government towards the
local authorities was intended to address the risk of inadequate counterpart funding from the central
government, it was perhaps naïve to expect local authorities to provide significant co-financing in the
absence of prior commitment or legal obligation. Co-financing by beneficiaries, was also overestimated
and not promoted by project authorities.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision missions were carried out once or twice a year throughout the project implementation period.
The project benefited substantially from consistency of Task Managers as there were only two: the first
led the Appraisal Mission and remained through 1997; while the second, who also participated in the
Appraisal, remained involved in the project until its completion. Familiarity with the project and its
objectives enabled supervision missions to react promptly to issues such as crises in counterpart
funding. Supervision missions were instrumental in redirecting a tendency to over-centralization by the
PCU and ensuring a focus on the extension nuclei and the ACEs, but were less successful in bringing
about more active involvement of the state coordinating offices. Although continual references were
made to the need for more technical training in Aide Memoires, the Supervision missions were unable to
push this at the expense of induction training in project methodology. At the time of the MTR, it was
appropriate to redirect the focus of the project towards improving the quality of the service and
strengthening decentralization, but these objectives proved difficult to achieve in the face of budget
constraints.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The preparation period was extended owing to the ongoing restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Because of the rundown nature of the existing extension system, only one experienced extensionist was
available to participate in the preparation team at the local level. There was also substantial preparatory
work of a legal nature as the proposed agreements governing relationships and responsibilities between
center, states and municipalities were an innovation. Overall, the local preparation team worked hard
with commitment to the objectives of the project and produced a thorough preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government remained committed to the project but funding was a problem. While disbursement
followed the anticipated pattern in the first two years of implementation and even exceeded the planned



                                                    - 9 -

amount in 1998, there was a significant shortfall in 1999 due to the economic crisis. Uncertainties about
the central budget allocation persisted through to November and prevented extension of project
coverage as planned.        Changes in project management at this time also limited achievement of
objectives and the fulfillment of MTR recommendations. The project repeatedly failed to submit required
annual audit reports by the June 30 due date until action was taken on recommendation of the
supervision mission in July 2000. While adequate funding was forthcoming from central government in
2000, there were again delays in approval of the 2001 budget. The final crisis came in 2002 and led to a
slow down in project activities and an extension of the closing date to 31 December 2003. Although, the
financial situation restricted the scope of project activities, circumstances were practically beyond the
control of government, and it was not felt that there was any lack of commitment to the project. In fact,
the central government made up a large portion of the shortfall in funding from the states, municipalities
and beneficiaries.
The inadequate contributions to project financing by sources other than central government (see 5.4
above) is one of the project's main weaknesses. At the end of the project, the share of financing of
actual costs as a proportion of the planned shares was as follows: States - 47.9%; Municipalities -
29.3%; beneficiaries - 1%. Apart from the financial aspect, the states' implementation performance was
also disappointing in so far as they did not play the coordinating and administrative role that had been
expected. The performance of municipalities was adequate, possibly because less direct involvement in
the provision of the extension services was anticipated.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

CIARA has been an effective implementing agency. Its efforts were particularly noteworthy in keeping
the project going during periods of severe limitations in budgetary resources. The accounting system
was good and supported by adequate controls. The agency focused on establishing the base of the
decentralized system, namely recruiting the extension agents and ensuring operations at the grassroots.
As the intention of the project was to develop a demand-driven extension system, this focus was
appropriate, but it did lead CIARA to favor community development at the expense of technological
expertise.   Although budgetary problems and weak relationships with research provide a partial
explanation, there was a concentration on extension methodology rather than technical training. CIARA
also chose to recruit extension contractors directly rather than strengthening state offices to enable them
to undertake their assigned role in the decentralized system. The role of the ACEs does not appear to
have been clearly understood in the early years of the project, the PCU was slow to involve them in
preparation and approval of extension plans and it was only in the last year of the project that
responsibility for recruiting the extension agents was transferred to the ACEs.           Nonetheless, the
enthusiasm and dedication of management has been reflected in the appreciation of the project
expressed by its ultimate beneficiaries. Experience with the Agricultural Extension Project has also been
advantageous to CIARA in the implementation of other major rural development projects supported by
external financing agencies. Agency personnel and project beneficiaries have benefited from an
interchange of experiences.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.




                                                   - 10 -

8. Lessons Learned

Co-financing. Proposal of a co-financing matrix and specification of the flow of funds is not sufficient to
guarantee co-financing from local governments, instead specific provisions need to be made. In this
project, resources were not forthcoming in the anticipated amounts because the decentralized extension
service did not have the priority in the eyes of the local authorities necessary to justify expenditure of the
amounts envisaged. It is interesting that in 2002, when the central government was clearly unable to
meet its obligations and the extension service had demonstrated its worth, the state governments came
forward with larger contributions.     Proposals for co-financing should be reviewed directly with the
co-financiers to ascertain whether (a) resources are available and (b) if they are available, whether the
authority is willing and able to assign them to the project as envisaged. Once a commitment is made, it
may be advisable to propose sanctions (i.e. withholding of central government funds) if the commitment
is not met.      Ways in which provisions for co-financing a project could be included in regular
state/municipal budgets should be explored as well as some guarantee that budgeted amounts would be
forthcoming in a timely fashion.

The issue of beneficiary contributions for agricultural services is more difficult. In the Venezuela case,
there was an attitude on the part of project management that beneficiaries (poor farmers) should not pay.
In these circumstances, it is necessary first to convince project management and local authorities of the
importance of beneficiary contributions.     It is probably not realistic to expect contributions until the
community organizations, in this case, the ACEs, are well established and the extension service has
proved that it has something worthwhile to offer. Directors of the ACEs can then be convinced of the
importance of sharing in the financing of the extension service and be made responsible for collection of
funds from their members. This implies that it is not realistic to expect contributions from beneficiaries in
the initial years of establishment of a decentralized system, but that they should be forthcoming once the
grassroots institutions are established and the extension service has proved its worth. For the latter to
remain valid, continuous training will be required so that extensionists are seen to be a source of
innovation and continually improving technologies.

Demand-driven extension requires a flexible response.                The type of extension services most
requested by beneficiaries might not be what project designers envisaged. In this project, there was a
clear demand for more activities of a social and community-development nature than had been
envisaged, as opposed to requirements for technical information.            The social requirements were
considered a priority by the beneficiaries. There was a clear need for training of community members
and ACE directors in community management and mobilization skills, which had not been anticipated.
Project management did well to respond to these requirements, while still providing for some technical
agricultural extension. The lesson to be learned is that in designing a demand-driven extension service,
it is important not to be overly ambitious with respect to technical (productive) targets. On the other
hand, it would be appropriate to set some community development objectives. There needs to be a
balance between respecting demands for more general community development and ensuring some
impact on production and income.

Research and extension linkages require active promotion in a demand-driven extension system.
Specific provision was made in the SAR for Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) from research institutes to
respond to requests from extensionists in the field. The technical staff of CIARA was assigned the
responsibility for contracting these SMS as required. For the most part this did not take place as priority
was given to induction training rather than technical training, in spite of the concerns of supervision
missions as to the technical (as opposed to academic) capacity of front-line extension workers. It is
possible that in a demand-driven extension system, initial priority has to be given to community
development aspects but, as the decentralized system matures, demands for technical assistance are
likely to become more specific and the system should anticipate these requirements by actively involving
research personnel in the development of solutions to technical problems.




                                                    - 11 -

A Proactive Approach to the incorporation of Gender Issues is needed. Initially this project didn't
focus on Gender issues. However, once the extensionists started working in the communities it was
obvious that women could play an important part in the project. To facilitate this participation most of the
extension nuclei hired female extensionists. The central unit also contracted a Gender Specialist for its
Unit. This led to an increase in the number of women participants with a concomitant expansion of the
extension agenda. While this approach was very successful, it could be surmised that if a more proactive
approach had been taken from the beginning more women would have participated in the project. In the
future it is recommended that an explicit gender agenda be incorporated and main streamed into
extension projects in the future.

Decentralized extension is more accountable. The project specifically stated that the municipalities
and the ACEs would supervise all extension contracts. This resulted in most of the extensionists having
to live in their municipalities. This is in contrast to the centralized extension service where most of the
extensionists live in big towns or provincial capitals. This led to a more demand driven extension agenda
and the professional presence of extensionists helped isolated communities in a broader development
agenda.

Effective administration of decentralized extension is hampered by lack of local capacity. Project
preparation overestimated the local capacity to contract, supervise and evaluate the extension program.
The establishment of a decentralized extension program needs to be accompanied by a strong training
program of local organizations such as the municipalities and ACEs and should be planned accordingly
with adequate resources.




                                                      - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 13 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no cofinanciers on this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The other partners of the Project were paticipating States, participating Municipalities, and Beneficiaries.



10. Additional Information

A project completion workshop was held in early December 2003, with participation from beneficiaries,
extensionists, representatives from states and municipal offices and the PCU. Following presentation of
papers on the economic and institutional evaluations of the project, groups were formed to draw their
own conclusions and recommendations about the project.

It was considered that the transfer of responsibilities for the extension system to the ACEs was a
significant achievement of the project, but that it needed to be backed up by continual training of ACE
directors. Satisfaction was expressed with the impact of the project both in terms of better yields and
increased income and with respect to environmental and gender aspects. It was felt that the project
would have benefited from a source of financing for activities recommended by the extension workers.
Recommendations were also made with respect to identifying strategies for mobilizing beneficiary
contributions, the need for legal measures to ensure co-financing by municipalities and state
governments, the scope for ACEs to provide services to members in return for payment, the advantages
of exchanging experiences with other extension nuclei/states/ACEs, and the need for rural development
promoters at the municipal level.




                                                   - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

    Outcome / Impact Indicators:

             Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in SAR          Actual/Latest Estimate

Improved research and extension links
 No. of monthly meetings attended by                  24                               n.a.

 scientists per state.

Technology dissemination
 Cumulative number of field days held per             61                               n.a.

 State.
 Percent of beneficiaries per target                  50                               n.a.

 sample.

Technology adoption
 Percent of beneficiaries adopting                    50                              29.5

 technologies.                                                     Based on sample of 20 Municipal Extension
                                                                   Nuclei selected for economic evaluation on
                                                                   basis of having participated in the project for
                                                                    at least three years on a continuous basis.

Productivity increases
 Percent of beneficiaries with yield gains.           50                              29.5

Decentralization of management and
responsibility
 Cumulative number of beneficiaries on               540                               516

 ACE boards.




                                               - 15 -

Output Indicators:
                   Indicators:                     Original Target Revised Target    Maximum                Gender
                                                                    1996-2003        Achieved
Institutional Development
 Establishment of Project Coordinating
 Unit at CIARA: no. of specialists                       6               6                 5                  1
 Establishment of State extension
 coordinating units: no. of units                        18             18                17
Municipal Extension
 Number of municipal extension nuclei
 operational                                            180             140               127
 Number of extensionists trained and                                                                    Male   Female
 deployed                                               720             560               561            443     118
 Number of technological innovations
 introduced                                             720             720             4,126
 Number of ACE established                              180             140               86
                                                                                  Of which 77 have full
                                                                                  authority to contract
                                                                                     and supervise
                                                                                     extensionists
                                                                                                        Male   Female
 Membership of ACE                                      n.a.          13,000           10,370           7,674   2,696
                                                                                                        Male   Female
 Direct beneficiaries                                 90,000          65,000           45,000           33,300 11,700

Training
 No. of induction courses for extensionists
 No distinction made between training of                 50             19                31
extensionists at national, state or local level.
 No. of extensionists receiving induction
 courses                                                720             560               935
 No. of in-service training courses for
 extensionists                                         2,500            19                13              5
 No. of extensionists receiving in-service
training                                                720             560               428            441
                                                                                   Technical training
                                                                                   excluding gender
 No. of training sessions for State
 Coordinators                                            8               6                 4
 No. of State Coordinators trained                       18             18                88
 No. of training sessions for ACE
 members and directors                                  n.a.            24                282
 No. of ACE directors trained                           n.a.            700               516

Studies
 Profiles of municipalities                             180             140               122
 Diagnostic studies of participating
municipalities                                          180             140               122
 Impact evaluation studies                                                                 4




                                                           - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                  Table 2a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal      Revised       Actual as of    % of      % of
             Component                Estimate      Estimate       31-Dec-03     Appraisal Revised
                                                                                 Estimate  Estimate

Municipal Extension                      44.6         44.3            40.88        91.66    92.28

Institutional Development                12.3         15.94           16.23       131.95   101.82

Training                                  5.8          2.07            2.08        35.86   100.48

Technical Assistance & Studies            5.5           1.09           0.48          1.27   44.0

Total Baseline Cost                      68.2         63.4            59.67

Physical contingencies                    3.3
Price contingencies                       7.5

    Total Project Costs                  79.0         63.4           59.68         74.0     92.3




                                              - 17 -

                    Table 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
                                  Procurement Method                Procurement Method          Procurement Method
Expenditure
Category                            Appraisal Estimate               Revised Estimate           Actual 31/Dec/2003
                              I    L              N             I  L             N           I L            N
                             C C                  F            C C               F           C C            F
                             B B Others           C     Total  B B     Others    C    Total  B B   Others   C     Total
1. Civil Works
Infrastructure                            0.2            0.2              0             0             0             0
                                         [0.1]          [0.1]            [0]           [0]            0             0

2. Goods &
Equipment
Computers,
Accessories & other
imported items                            1.5            1.5             1.5          1.5            1.4           1.4
                                         [1.5]          [1.5]          [0.95]        [0.95]         [0.9]         [0.9]

Furniture & field
equipment                                 0.7            0.7             0.7          0.7            0.4           0.4
                                         [0.3]          [0.3]           [0.3]         [0.3]        [0.28]         [0.28]


3. Consultancies
Studies & technical
assistance                                 5              5             1.095        1.095          0.48           0.48
                                          [5]            [5]           [1.095]       [1.095]       [0.48]         [0.48]

4. Municipal
Extension Services                       28.8           28.8             43            43           40.88         40.88
                                        [13.5]         [13.5]          [21.25]       [21.25]       [18.81]       [18.81]


5. Training                               2.4            2.4            2.07          2.07          2.07           2.07
                                         [1.2]          [1.2]          [0.96]        [0.96]        [1.04]         [1.04]


6. Grants
Experimental methods
fund                                      0.5            0.5            0.04          0.04          0.038         0.038
                                         [0.5]          [0.5]          [0.04]        [0.04]        [0.038]       [0.038]


7. Recurrent costs
Allowances, salaries,
travel                                   35.2           35.2            14.75        14.75          14.25         14.25
                                        [14.9]         [14.9]           [6.3]         [6.3]        [4.42]         [4.42]

Supplies &
consumables                               4.7            4.7             0.2          0.2           0.16           0.16
                                         [2.1]          [2.1]           [0.1]         [0.1]        [0.04]         [0.04]
                                          79             79             63.4          63.4          59.68         59.68
TOTAL                                    [39]           [39]            [31]          [31]         [29.24]       [29.24]
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate Bank-financed amounts.




                                                              - 18 -

            Table 2c. Project Financing by Component at Appraisal and Revised Estimate
                                                 (in US$ million Equivalent)


      Component                  Appraisal Estimate                         Revised Estimate
                         Bank      Govt.      Other Sources        Bank         Govt.     Other Sources


Municipal Extension       21        6.5           17.1              21.3         12           11.0


Institutional             5.3       4.9            2.1              7.65        6.29           2.0
Development


Training                  2.9       2.9             0               0.96        1.11            0


Studies & technical
assistance                5.5        0              0               1.09          0             0


Physical contingencies    1.4        2
Price Contingencies       2.9       4.5


TOTAL                     39        20.8          19.2              31          19.4          13.0




                      Table 2d. Project Financing by Component Actual as of 31-Dec-2003
                                           (in US$ million equivalent)

                                 Component                   Actual as of 31-Dec-2003

                                                        Bank      Govt.      Other Sources


                          Municipal Extension           16.52     19.87          4.49


                          Institutional Development     5.72      9.67           0.85


                          Training                      0.43      1.65            0


                          Studies & technical
                          assistance                     0.4      0.08            0


                          TOTAL                         23.07     31.27          5.34




                                                  - 19 -

                           Table 2e. Project Financing by Component:
                      Actual as Percent of Appraisal and Revised Estimates (in %)



      Component       Actual as % of Appraisal Estimate    Actual as % of Revised Estimate

                       Bank       Govt.    Other Sources    Bank       Govt.     Other Sources


Municipal Extension    78.67      30.57         26.26       77.56     165.58        40.82


Institutional          107.92     197.35        40.48       74.77     153.74        42.50
Development


Training               14.83       56.9          0          44.79     148.65          0


Studies & technical
assistance              7.27         0           0          36.7         0            0


TOTAL                  59.15      150.33        27.81       74.42     161.19        41.08




                                              - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


              Table 3a. Distribution of IRR by Type of Extension Subproject Nuclei

                     Type of Subproject            Average           Std.
                                                   IRR (%)         Deviation
                Horticultural Extension               403              -
                Subprojects
                Other Subprojects                     167              -
                Average of All Subprojects            273             363



                Table 3b. Frequency Distribution of IRR by Subproject Nuclei

                            IRR Interval                % of Nuclei
                      < 100                                  40
                        101 - 200                            15
                        201 - 300                             5
                        301 - 400                            20
                        401 - 500                             0
                      > 500                                  20




                                             - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1991                      2    SR. AGRICULTURIST (2)              S               S

              01/19/1992                6    AGRICULTURIST (2);                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (2);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             PORTFOLIO MNGR. (1).
              03/08/1993                7    TASK MANAGER [TM] (1);             S               S
                                             SR. AGRICULTURIST (2);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             EXTENSION SPEC. (2);
                                             EDUCATION SPEC. (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/13/1993                6    TM (1); FINANCIAL                  S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); AGRIC. EXT. SPEC.
                                             (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST
                                             (2).

              10/20/1994              12     TM (1); AGRICULTURE                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (2); RURAL DEV.
                                             SPEC. (2); SR.
                                             AGRICULTURIST (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             FIN. ASSISTANT (1); AGR.
                                             EXTENSION SPEC. (3).
              05/02/1995                5    TM (1); AGRIC. SPEC. (1); FIN.     S               S
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1).

              05/21/1995                1    GENDER SPEC. (1).                  S               S

 Supervision
              11/08/1995                6    TM (1); RURAL DEV.
                                             SPEC. (1); GENDER SPEC.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPEC. (1); PROC.
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1).

              02/12/1996                6    TM (1); RURAL DEV. SPEC.           S               S
                                             (2); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.



                                              - 22 -

                 (1).

06/18/1996    5  TM (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST         S    S
                 (1); RURAL DEV. SPEC. (1);
                 AGRIC. SPEC. (1); PROC.
                 ASSISTANT (1).
01/15/1997    5  TM (1); RURAL DEV. SPEC.          S    S
                 (1); EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
                 PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                 PROC. ANALYST (1).
02/24/1998    8  TM (1); DISB. ANALYST (1);        S    S
                 LAWYER (1); SR. PROC.
                 SPEC. (2); SR. FINANCIAL
                 SPEC. (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                 RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1).
11/02/1998    6  TM (1); EXTENSION SPEC.           S    S
                 (1); ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                 (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                 (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                 INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1).
11/08/1999    10 TM (1); INSTITUTIONAL             S    S
                 SPEC. (2); FINANCIAL
                 ANALYST (1); EXT. SPEC. (1);
                 ENV. SPEC. (1); ECONOMIST
                 (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1); DISB.
                 ANALYST (1); SR. PROC.
                 ANALYST (1);
03/20/2000    8  TM (1); INSTITUTIONAL             S    S
                 SPEC. (1); SOC. DEV. SPEC.
                 (1); PROC. ASSISTANT (2);
                 PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                 SR. FIN. SPEC. (1);
                 FINANCIAL ANALYST (1).
06/20/2000    7  TM (1); INSTITUTIONAL             S    S
                 SPEC. (1); FIN. SPEC. (1); SR.
                 PROC. SPEC. (1); GENDER
                 SPEC (1); PROC. ASSISTANT
                 (1); PROG. ASSISTANT (1).
05/14/2001    6  TM (1); INSTITUTIONAL             S    S
                 SPEC. (1); GENDER SPEC. (1);
                 CREDIT/ EXTENSION SPEC.
                 (1); SR.PROC. SPEC. (1);
                 FIN.MGMT.SPEC. (1).
12/04/2001    4  TM (1); PROC.SPEC. (1); SOC.      S    S
                 DEVELOPMENT SPEC.(1);
                 SOCIOLOGIST (1).
05/21/2002    5  TM (1); SR.PROC.SPEC.(1);         S    S
                 AGR. ECONOMIST/M&E (1);
                 FIN.MGMT.SPEC. (1); SOCIAL
                 DEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1).
06/21/2003    7  TM (1); ECONOMIST (1); OPS.       S    S
                 ANALYST (1); SOC. DEV.



                 - 23 -

                                           SPEC. (1); PROC. SPEC. (1);
                                           SR. FIN. SPEC.(1);
                                           PROG.ASSISTANT (1).

 ICR
               12/02/2003             4     TM (1);AGR.                       S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (2); JR.
                                            PROFESSIONAL (1).
               2004                  10     TM (1); SECTOR LDR. (1);          S    S
                                            AGR. ECONOMIST (1); JR.
                                            PROFESSIONAL (1); SR. FIN.
                                            SPEC. (1); SOC. DEV. SPEC.
                                            (1); SR. FIN. OFFICER (1);
                                            AGRONOMIST (1); AGR.
                                            ECONOMIST (1); OPS.
                                            ANALYST (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            88.9                         97.45
  Appraisal/Negotiation                109.3                        213.95
  Supervision                          117.0                         466.4
  ICR                                  13.65                         99.75
  Total                              328.85                         877.55




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


CIARA 2003a
Evaluación Institucional Sostenibilidad del Programa de Extensión Agrícola en Venezuela 1996-2002,
Abril 2003, Dirección de Planificación y Gestión de Proyectos, CIARA.


CIARA 2003b
Evaluación Económica del Progama de Extensión Agrícola en Venezuela 1996-2001, Noviembre, 2003,
Dirección de Planificación y Gestión de Proyectos, CIARA.


CIARA 2003c
Informe del Taller de Evaluación de Cierre de la Ejecuión del Programa de Extensión Agrícola, Mérida, 6
de Diciembre de 2003.


CIARA 2003d
Perfil II: Documento Preliminar del Proyecto "Extensión para el Desarrollo Rural", Dirección de
Planificación y Gestión de Proyectos, CIARA.


World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report, Venezuela Agricultural Extension Project, March 7, 1995, Report
No. 13591-VE.


World Bank. Project Supervision Reports.




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 8. Borrower ICR (Informe del Prestatario)

1. Evaluación del Objetivo de Desarrollo, Diseño y la Calidad al Inicio

1.1 Objetivo Original. Para 1993, cuando se inicia el diseño del actual proyecto, el país no contaba en
lo absoluto con un servicio nacional de extensión agrícola, el Proyecto de Extensión Agrícola se origina
con la intención del Gobierno Nacional de proveer al país de un Sistema Nacional de Extensión
Agrícola, público descentralizado. El mismo fue concebido bajo el objetivo general de "Asistir a
pequeños productores para que ellos se informen y adopten tecnologías mejoradas para mejorar su
productividad, sus ingresos y su bienestar, y para mejorar la sostenibilidad ambiental en sus operaciones
agrícolas. El Proyecto propiciará el establecimiento de un nuevo servicio público de Extensión,
descentralizado para servir a las necesidades de los pequeños productores que no pueden obtener tal
servicio pagando por su costo total... El Proyecto también proveerá asistencia técnica en el área de la
conservación ambiental e institucionalizará revisiones periódicas sobre el efecto de las actividades de
extensión en la conservación del ambiente y propiciará estudios adecuados que permitan examinar el
impacto que en general el Proyecto tiene sobre el ambiente".

El proyecto diseñado y puesto en marcha para 1995, con la participación de los gobiernos estatales,
municipales y particularmente de los usuarios, enfatizó en proveer a pequeños productores del país de
asistencia técnica agropecuaria que fuese amigable con el ambiente y que igualmente propiciaba un
desarrollo de Instituciones Locales que fueron denominadas Asociaciones Civiles de Extensión,
conformadas mayoritariamente por los pequeños productores asumiendo a mediano plazo, la
administración y dirección de las acciones del proyecto en el municipio.

Así, en el momento del establecimiento, el Proyecto era realizable e importante para el país y acorde
con la estrategia entonces establecida para la Asistencia del Banco para el país que para el momento
"se orientó a apoyar el mejoramiento de la eficiencia y descentralización del servicio público, hacia un
desarrollo   del sector privado con énfasis en el combate de la pobreza y la protección del medio
ambiente". Se considera que el Objetivo del Proyecto responde claramente y de manera determinante a
esas prioridades establecidas en la Estrategia de Asistencia hacia el País ya que el mismo orientó el
trabajo del Proyecto hacia la descentralización del servicio y la participación de instancias privadas
(Agencias Ejecutoras) en la operación del mismo.

El Proyecto fue muy exigente y completo en su formulación e implementación inicial,
fundamentalmente, porque en el país no existían extensionistas agrícolas profesionales y además
implicaba la participación de numerosas instituciones: Gobernaciones; Alcaldías; Asociaciones Civiles
de Extensión; Agencias Ejecutoras al nivel de cada                municipio; así como muchas agencias
gubernamentales o privadas que debieron participar. El Proyecto era además complejo porque el
número de cofinanciadores fue también grande y disperso.

1.2 Objetivo Revisado.       Al poco tiempo de iniciado el Proyecto y como consecuencia de que la
planificación anual de las actividades al nivel de campo, se fundamentó en un diagnóstico participativo
en cada municipio, donde los pequeños productores manifestaban cuales eran a su juicio las principales
necesidades, para afianzar su desarrollo económico, se hizo evidente la necesidad de darle una mayor
importancia a los aspectos      sociales; y así se aplicaron ajustes adecuados para incluir estos en las
actividades regulares, sin variar los objetivos originales incluidos desde el diseño del mismo.
En resumen, el Proyecto de Extensión Agrícola, se basa en todos los objetivos planteados en su diseño
original y enfatiza en la atención de aspectos sociales y económicos.

1.3 Componentes Originales.

Componente 1: Desarrollo Institucional (US$ 12.3 millones, 18% del total de los costos base).
Este componente establecerá y apoyará las entidades como institucional del gobierno nacional y estatal



                                                     - 28 -

que coordinarán y administrarán el sistema nacional descentralizado de extensión a ser establecido.

Componente 2: Extensión Municipal: (US$ 44.6 millones, 65% del total de los costos base)
Este componente apoyará el establecimiento de una estructura institucional para el sistema municipal de
extensión. Ello envuelve la formación de Asociaciones Civiles de Extensión (ACE) en cada una de las
municipalidades participantes. En cada una de esas municipales el componente proveerá los costos de
contratación de una agencia ejecutora para organizar las oficinas municipales y ofrecer el servicio. Para
participar en el Programa cada municipalidad debe firmar con el estado y con CIARA el acuerdo de
participación.

Componente 3: Adiestramiento para Extensionistas (US$ 5.8 millones, 9% del total de los costos base)
Este componente apoyará el establecimiento del Programa de Adiestramiento para los empleados del
Sistema de Extensión. El Programa de Adiestramiento introducirá a todo el personal al Sistema de
Extensión Agrícola y fortalecerá y mantendrá su capacidad profesional en aspectos técnicos y
metodológicos relacionados con sus responsabilidades en el Sistema. El Programa incluirá cursos y
eventos diseñados y organizados por las unidades de Metodología y Adiestramiento de la UCP de
CIARA y por el personal de las Oficinas Estatales de Extensión.

Componente 4: Asistencia Técnica y Estudios (US$ 5.5 millones, 8% del total de los costos base)
Este componente será manejado directamente por la Unidad Técnica de la UCP de CIARA. Financiará
estudios y asistencia técnica   destinada a facilitar la planificación ya en marcha, el seguimiento y
evaluación de la implementación del Proyecto. El componente también financiará estudios y asistencia
técnica que fueren en el futuro acordados entre el Banco y el Prestatario, para mejorar la efectividad de
la implementación.

1.4 Componentes Modificados.         Los componentes del proyecto se mantuvieron intactos en su
definición durante toda la ejecución del Programa, los cambios se propusieron en una enmienda al
monto del préstamo que paso de 39 a 31 millones de dólares, en el aporte del Banco Mundial. Los
montos por componente se modificaron según enmienda al convenio de préstamo en fecha 12 de
noviembre de 2001 de la siguiente manera:

Componente 1: Desarrollo Institucional US$ S 1.25 millones;

Componente 2: Extensión Municipal: US$ 20.1 millones;

Componente 3: Adiestramiento para Extensionistas US$ 1.35 millones; y

Componente 4: Asistencia Técnica y Estudios US$ 1.5 millones, Subvenciones bajo la parte D7 del
Proyecto US$ 0.1 millones y Costos Recurrentes Crecientes US$ 6.7 millones.

1.5 Calidad al Inicio. Se deben mencionar algunas variables tomadas en consideración para su
valoración, consideradas para la fecha:

Al comienzo del Proyecto, el país carecía por completo de un servicio de extensión agrícola, e
igualmente de extensionistas profesionales que pudiesen actuar de inmediato. Contaba sí, con alguna
información sobre programas que iniciados en 1928 habían llegado a cubrir buena parte del país con
más de 200 agencias agrícolas que luego desaparecieron. Los organizadores del proyecto lograron la
participación de sólo uno de los extensionistas profesionales aun activo en el país, el Ingeniero
Agrónomo J.R. Rodríguez Brito, que ayudó mucho con sus conocimientos y experiencias.

El país contaba con un débil esfuerzo en capacitación en extensión agrícola, en la Facultad de
Agronomía de la Universidad del Táchira y una Especialización en Desarrollo Rural, en la Universidad
Central de Venezuela; ambos ofrecían muy pocos trabajos prácticos.

En el diseño del proyecto se proponía por primera vez una actividad que al nivel de campo requería
participación activa del sector público nacional (Fundación CIARA), Gobernaciones y Alcaldías y se


                                                 - 29 -

intentaba una participación de miembros de comunidades, bajo la dirección local de una organización
privada o universitaria. Este hecho presentó una dificultad adicional ya que no había experiencia previa
en la organización de un proyecto con tal complejidad.

El grupo de trabajo exploratorio del comenzó su trabajo en 1992 para el diseño y preparación del
proyecto y a mediados de 1994 se logró formular el proyecto definitivo que luego se firmo en convenio
con el Banco. El apoyo de consultores extranjeros suplidos por el Banco, fue determinante en la etapa
inicial.

Al inicio del proyecto se hizo necesario hacer esfuerzos en su promoción al nivel de las autoridades
estatales (Gobernadores) y municipales (Alcaldes. Los esfuerzos realizados para estimular su interés
fueron creciendo de manera paulatina, aun cuando el 100% de la alcaldías y gobernaciones no están
completamente convencidas, el programa logro la institucionalidad a través de las ACE´s, con su
participación en los Consejos Locales de Planificación Pública.

2. Logro del Objetivo y Productos

2.1 Resultados /logros del objetivo. El cumplimiento de los objetivos del PREA pueden reflejarse en
el siguiente análisis:

El objetivo del proyecto planteó "propiciar el establecimiento de un nuevo Servicio Público de Extensión,
descentralizado para servir a las necesidades de los pequeños productores" y con la implantación se
logro la construcción de la plataforma institucional del Servicio de Extensión (como medio de acceso de
los(as) usuarios(as) a los procesos de toma de decisiones).

El impacto más resaltante del montaje institucional del Proyecto de Extensión Agrícola ha sido el de
facilitar a los(as) usuarios(as) del servicio un alcance humano ampliado en cuanto al acceso a todos los
niveles de toma de decisión, a través de la gran red institucional que se ha estructurado. El modelo
actual ya ha podido transferir completamente el servicio a las Asociación Civil de Extensión,
considerando la formulación del plan de acción, el manejo administrativo del programa a nivel
municipal, la contratación de los extensionistas, el seguimiento y la evaluación.

La concepción, diseño y ejecución del proyecto original se realizó con miras a que sirviera como
plataforma y fundamento para un programa basado en dos importantes supuestos: i) su proyección
permanente; y ii) su crecimiento con recursos locales que serían incrementados con el tiempo ("bajo el
nuevo sistema, gobiernos municipales y agricultores podrán conjuntamente asumir la responsabilidad
para gerenciar y ofrecer el servicio de extensión"). Algunos indicios nos permiten constatar que la
hipótesis ha sido acertada y por ello deben constituir un lineamiento para el futuro del programa.
Ejemplo de estos indicios los tenemos en los siguientes casos de fortalecimiento del Programa en dos
estados del país:

a. Evolución del PREA en los estados Portuguesa, Lara, Falcón y Barinas: basado en el éxito del
programa en estos estados, las gobernaciones y algunas alcaldías decidieron incorporar con fondos
propios extensionistas adicionales a los núcleos de extensión, sobre los mismos principios y
procedimientos del programa.

b. Evolución institucional (caso estado Mérida): en este estado se creó un instituto (IMDERURAL) que
absorbió la ejecución del Programa en el estado, comprometiéndose con el cofinanciamiento y el apoyo
gerencial del servicio.

l    Desarrollo de capital financiero (creación de una cultura de obtención de recursos
     financieros para el pago del servicio). Los recursos para el pago del servicio que se captan por el
     cofinanciamiento son la base que articula la participación, como interés movilizador de los actores
     institucionales. El cofinanciamiento se ha convertido en el instrumento obligante de relacionamiento
     entre las partes, pues genera el compromiso de actuación corresponsable entre los actores de los




                                                     - 30 -

  diferentes niveles de la red institucional. Adicionalmente, actúa como instrumento de presión
  integradora de los grupos de base hacia arriba, dándole consistencia y solidez a la relación entre las
  organizaciones locales y las instituciones. Ambas características le dan un valor distinto al
  reconocimiento social de la inversión en el servicio, pues cohesiona al conjunto de actores como un
  todo. Aunque los aportes de cofinanciamiento han sido limitados por parte de gobernaciones y
  alcaldías, en los últimos años éstos se han incrementado. Sin embargo, el resultado de mayor
  importancia es que ha permitido instaurar una cultura de la búsqueda y captación de ingresos para
  el pago del servicio, la cual se ha venido institucionalizando año tras año a través de un proceso de
  apropiación que requiere de tiempo.

  Al mismo tiempo, las organizaciones de carácter civil, al contar con la plataforma institucional
  creada, son capaces de expandir su gestión al incrementar sus opciones e instancias de
  participación, para acceder a recursos y darle respuesta a sus planteamientos a través de los
  planes. En efecto, dada la presencia del Programa en diversas comunidades rurales, el gobierno
  nacional ha aprovechado dicha plataforma para la ejecución, en un corto plazo, de un programa
  especial de inversión de apoyo a pequeños y medianos productores del país, denominado
  "SOBREMARCHA"; ampliando así la capacidad de respuesta ante las diversas demandas de las
  comunidades, funcionando como un fondo de recursos no reembolsables. Este fondo manejado a
  través de la Fundación CIARA permitió que las organizaciones formular los proyectos de inversión
  comunitaria, los ejecutarán y administra la totalidad de los recursos. El monto de lo ejecutado a nivel
  nacional fue de Bs. 7,000 millones durante el año 2001.

l Desarrollo de capital social (desarrollo de las relaciones sociales que gobiernan las
  interacciones de las personas y contribuyen al desarrollo económico y social de las
  comunidades). Aunque el capital social no fue considerado dentro de los objetivos del PR.E.A. la
  experiencia a través de las Asociaciones Civiles de Extensión como organizaciones constituidas no
  sólo de usuarios (relaciones horizontales) sino también de representantes de los Núcleos de
  Extensión, así como de los Municipios y de los Estados, con una relación directa con el nivel central
  (relaciones verticales), hizo necesaria la incorporación de este elemento dentro de la dinámica del
  Programa.

l Desarrollo de capital humano (contribución al alivio de la pobreza de las familias rurales y al
  logro de la seguridad alimentaría de la población, mediante la generación de capacidades
  tecnológicas y de autogestión comunitaria). Se ha logrado constituir 86 Asociaciones Civiles de
  Extensión, a través de las cuales los(as) usuarios(as) recibieron capacitación para la ejecución de
  471 proyectos productivos en 1,713 comunidades rurales, donde se difundieron 4,126 innovaciones
  tecnológicas en 630 rubros agrícolas. Igualmente, se ejecutaron 842 proyectos de apoyo
  comunitario, donde el 46% de la inversión correspondió a obras de infraestructura social, el 38% a
  obras de infraestructura productiva y el 16% restante a capacitación de los usuarios para la
  autoconstrucción y mantenimiento de dichas obras. Aun cuando el proyecto no consideran recursos
  para la inversión si genero capacidades para la implementación y esto se materializa a través del
  programa "Sobremarcha", el cual tenia como objetivo principal apoyar la ejecución de proyectos
  comunitarios por medio de la autoconstrucción y administración directa. Esta actividad de inversión
  aumenta enormemente la gestión y credibilidad local del extensionista así como abarato los montos
  de la inversión y produjo experiencia administrativas          y de contraloría comunitaria en las
  organizaciones de base.

l Aspectos ambientales. Esta política ambiental del Programa de Extensión se enmarcaría en:
  Manejo de Suelos y Aguas, Disminución del uso de agroquímicos Manejo adecuado de desechos
  sólidos y efluentes líquidos. El avance del plan, reconoce, que antes de su consideración, aunque no
  se contaba con un Plan al respecto, fueron promovidas algunas innovaciones ambientales en los
  primeros años de ejecución del Programa de Extensión; prácticas relacionadas con el manejo
  adecuado de agroquímicos y los efectos nocivos de su aplicación en exceso, así como algunas
  prácticas de conservación de suelos en zonas de ladera, fueron de mucho interés; a partir del año
  1999 tiene mayor auge la incorporación de técnicas de procesamiento de desechos para la
  producción de abonos orgánicos.



                                                  - 31 -

     Asimismo, se tiene que de las innovaciones tecnológicas totales promovidas anualmente en los
     núcleos municipales de extensión, el 35.6% correspondió a innovaciones de carácter ambiental, con
     una participación de 260 productores por municipio en cada año, en dichas actividades. Según el
     marco referencial del Plan de Gestión Ambiental, el porcentaje de distribución de las tecnologías
     ambientales transferidas es el siguiente: 28.55% en materia de Conservación de Suelos, 60.38% en
     materia de Manejo de Agroquímicos y 11.06% en materia de Tratamiento de Desechos.


l    Aspectos en Género. La consideración de la perspectiva de género en el Proyecto de Extensión
     Agrícola, se inicia en el año 1996, con el apoyo y asesoramiento del Banco Mundial. En general, la
     perspectiva de género fue considerada como un mecanismo para disminuir la brecha existente entre
     los géneros y así garantizar relaciones de equidad en los beneficios y alcances del proyecto, para lo
     cual se concibió junto con el ambiente, "Ejes Transversales" dentro de las líneas de acción del
     proyecto.

El Programa de Extensión Agrícola reconoció como fundamentales:

l    El papel productivo que juegan las mujeres, jóvenes, niños/ñas y ancianos/as en el contexto rural
     venezolano.
l    Las necesidades diferenciadas de hombres y mujeres, a través de las herramientas de abordaje de
     las comunidades, tal como lo han sido los diagnósticos participativos, grupos focales, y demás
     metodologías de trabajo que permitieron identificar las necesidades diferenciadas de género en la
     población beneficiaria del proyecto.
l    Las distintas estrategias que permitieron incluir a mujeres, jóvenes y niños/as en las distintas
     actividades y servicios que ofreció el Programa.

Los esfuerzos del Proyecto estuvieron orientados principalmente a considerar los aspectos de Género
en: capacitación, seguimiento y evaluación, y la inclusión de mujeres y hombres en la Conformación de
las Asociaciones Civiles de Extensión (ACEs).

La Experiencia de Género en el PREA. El desarrollo de prácticas de extensión con visión de género, en
los distintos ámbitos de acción, producto de la experiencia de trabajo acumulada por los/las
extensionistas, ha derivado en un conjunto sistemático de prácticas, que promueven la participación de
toda la familia en la capacitación y demás actividades del proyecto, por ejemplo: los horarios en las
cuales se realizaban las convocatorias (adecuación al tiempo manejado por la mujer rural), los espacios
donde se dictaban los cursos y /o talleres (en los colegios se tiene una mayor presencia de mujeres y
jóvenes), el tipo de capacitación, las áreas de trabajo dentro del plan, que contemplan la participación
de mujeres (a través del análisis de roles), la preferencia de las usuarias hacia el trabajo directo con la
mujer extensionista, porque genera mayor confianza en el hombre, la transferencia de tecnología con
visión de género y las condiciones socio-culturales de la comunidad, entre otros.

Este cúmulo de aprendizajes se concretó en el estudio: "Sistematización de Experiencias en Género en
el Programa de Extensión Agrícola", realizado con el apoyo del Banco Mundial y el financiamiento del
Gobierno Japonés, a través de una donación, a finales del año 2003.

Este estudio se centró en el análisis cualitativo de diez (10) experiencias de trabajo con organizaciones
de mujeres, en los estados Táchira, Mérida, Trujillo, Portuguesa, Barinas, Cojedes, Zulia y Falcón, en el
cual se identificaron limitaciones y alcances obtenidos por el Programa en Género, en el aspecto
institucional, metodológico y operativo.

Algunos resultados obtenidos con la aplicación del enfoque de Género en el PERA:

l    El impulso de nuevas organizaciones conformadas por mujeres y grupos mixtos para el desarrollo
     de actividades productivas, comunitarias y ambientales. Las organizaciones superan la sesenta (60)
     en el área de acción del proyecto.



                                                   - 32 -

l   El diseño, gestión y ejecución de proyectos productivos con la participación de mujeres, financiado
    por organismos nacionales e internacionales, como el FONVIS y las Naciones Unidas para la
    Alimentación y la Familia (FAO). Hasta ahora el Proyecto a apoyado la ejecución de ocho (8)
    pequeños proyectos productivos para garantizar la seguridad alimentaría y tres (3) proyectos para
    desarrollar alternativas productivas.

2.2 Resultados por Componente

El Proyecto tiene cuatro (4) componentes: Extensión Municipal, Fortalecimiento Institucional, Apoyo en
Capacitación y Adiestramiento, y Asesoría Técnica y Estudios. Los componentes se ajustaron a las
necesidades del proyecto y el alcance en las metas propuestas por componente es el siguiente:

El de Fortalecimiento Institucional, desde el año 1995 al 2002 se firmaron 520 convenios tripartitos y 91
convenios bipartitos.    Se dotaron de mobiliarios y equipos a los 127 núcleos y 18 coordinaciones
estatales. Se suministró a los núcleos de extensión 960 documentos, libros y folletos referidos a temas
agroproductivos y del desarrollo rural. En los primeros cuatro       años se contó con el 50% de los
especialistas previstos en el proyecto, a partir del año 2000 se cumplió con el 100% de lo programado.
De este componente se han ejecutado al 31/12/2003 US$ MM 15.45 lo que representa el 96.82 de
presupuesto de la última enmienda y un 125.61 % del inicialmente pautado en el SAR.

En el componente Extensión Municipal; la base de implementación fueron los planes anuales de
extensión con lo ejes transversales de género y ambiente, teniendo una totalidad de 643 planes de
extensión ejecutados, con 4,126 innovaciones tecnológicas difundidas, para 37,558 usuarios(as) y
directas directos(as). Este componente alcanza un nivel de ejecución al 31/Dic/2003 de US$ MM 40.19
lo que representa un 90.72 % del presupuesto ajustado y un 90.11% del estimado en el SAR.

En Capacitación y Adiestramiento las metas programadas fueron ajustadas en función de los núcleos
previstos (140 núcleos). El número de extensionistas y Coordinadores Estatales capacitados superó el
valor estimado, esto debido a la rotación del personal de las agencias ejecutoras y a la necesidad de
incorporar más de un Coordinador Estatal donde los municipios participantes del proyecto eran más de
diez (10) por estado, las ACEs fueron capacitadas en un 67% de acuerdo a los municipios incorporados.
Es importante destacar que para finales del año 2002 los 488 extensionistas (147 mujeres y 341
hombres), que tenía el Programa, habían recibido capacitación en las categorías de inducción y
capacitación continua. Respecto a la capacitación en servicio, el esfuerzo se concentró en la
contratación de los(as) especialistas y en el desarrollo metodológico de los de enfoques de Género,
Ambiental (manejo de recursos naturales), Organización, Cadenas Agroproductivas, Competitividad y
Metodología de la Extensión, por esto se capacitaron 60 extensionistas en la variable ambiental, 90 en
género, 70 en metodología de extensión y 270 en competitividad y cadenas agro productivas. Se ha
ejecutado del componente Capacitación y Adiestramiento al 31/12/2003 de US$ MM 2.06 representa un
100 % de la enmienda y un 35.51 %del previsto en el SAR.

Para el componente Asesorías Técnica y Estudios, el resultado está en función del total de estudios y
asesorías ejecutadas, en el período de 1997 a 2002 se realizaron 59 estudios, siendo el 9.74% de lo
programado. Hay que hacer notar que este indicador está subestimado dado que sólo se tomo en cuenta
los estudios e investigaciones contratadas directamente con recursos del componente, quedando por
fuera las caracterizaciones municipales, diagnósticas y metodologías de incorporación, de planificación,
seguimiento y ejecución, así como la de aplicación de los enfoques, que pudieron haberse considerado
como estudios especiales, pero se incluyeron en el componente de extensión. De este componente al
31/12/2003 se ha ejecutado solo US$ MM 0.48 lo que representa un 44.04 % de la enmienda y 8.73%
del SAR.

2.3. Valor Presente Neto/Tasa de Retorno Económico. No aplica.

2.4 Tasa de Retorno Financiero.         Costos de la Gestión Municipal. El Programa trabajó con una
unidad básica operativa definida como Núcleo de Extensión Municipal, el cual es básico e indispensable



                                                  - 33 -

para el logro de los objetivos del Programa, ya que ellos constituyen la unidad técnico-operativa de
planificación, coordinación y ejecución de las actividades de extensión al nivel municipal, cuya misión es
establecer los canales de comunicación para captar los problemas y necesidades de los usuarios del
Programa y desarrollar los mecanismos, medios y métodos que permitan la aplicación de conocimientos
para mejorar el manejo y administración de las actividades productivas y sociales, así como elevar las
condiciones de vida de las familias rurales.

De acuerdo a la inversión que realizo el Programa durante los siete años de operación en el
Componente Extensión Municipal (Bs. 27,626.161,912) y al número total de agricultores beneficiados
(43,066) se determino que el costo anual por usuario fue de Bs. 91,640; valor significativamente bajo en
relación con los costos del sistema educativo venezolano. Este monto es aproximado al costo de un
mes de escolaridad, para un niño en la primera etapa de educación básica, en una escuela privada.

2.5 Impacto en el Desarrollo Institucional. En Venezuela desde los años 70 no existía actividad de
extensión agrícola, por lo que los antecedentes y experiencias locales, se habían olvidado o dejaron
ingratos recuerdos por la discontinuidad de las actividades de campo. Ahora bien, el Proyecto de
Extensión produjo una enorme expectativa entre las instituciones ligadas al agro principalmente por
presentar cinco grandes retos expresados en los principios del programa: el cofinanciamiento, la
descentralización, la participación, la coordinación y la contratación de agencias de extensión. Por eso,
el Programa fue diseñado de tal manera que pudiera conformarse una red que permitiese desarrollar la
institucionalidad en los distintos niveles de actuación: nacional, estatal, municipal y local, la construcción
de la plataforma institucional del Servicio de Extensión (como medio de acceso de los(as) usuarios(as) a
los procesos de toma de decisiones) y la concepción, diseño y ejecución del proyecto original se realizó
con miras a que sirviera como plataforma y fundamento para un programa basado en dos importantes
supuestos: i) su proyección permanente y ii) su crecimiento con recursos locales que serían
incrementados con el tiempo. Todo lo anteriormente planteado ha generado un cambio en la manera de
hacer extensión, entendiendo ésta como un proceso de acompañamiento educativo de forma colectiva
dirigido a generar cambios de actitud y aptitud para la participación y la autogestión.

La experiencia participativa con que cuenta el programa facilita la implementación de acciones y
abordaje de actores locales en instancias reales, lo que a su vez genera una sinergia institucional de
apoyo a las nuevas legislaciones e implantación de políticas, como es el caso de la Ley de los Consejos
Locales de Planificación Pública. En este sentido, CIARA, a través del Programa de Extensión, ha
desarrollado y validado una metodología de planificación local que puede servir de base para la
planificación de abajo hacia arriba.

Es así como el impacto en el desarrollo institucional se expresa en la construcción de relaciones
institucionales, el Proyecto de Extensión Agrícola como articulador entre instituciones y el marco legal
que las rige, para el desarrollo rural y, la generación de relaciones propias a partir de los vínculos con
los apoyos institucionales del servicio (especialistas, capacitación y estudios) permite, a su vez, otros
vínculos, como los que se han conformado con universidades e institutos de ciencia y tecnología,
haciendo crecer la red.

3. Principales Factores que Afectan la Implementación y Resultados

3.1 Factores que escapan del control del gobierno o agencia ejecutora. No aplica.

3.2 Factores generalmente sujetos al control por el gobierno.                 A pesar de las dificultades
macroeconómicas y a los cambios políticos acaecidos en Venezuela, el Gobierno Nacional ha
manifestado en todo momento su apoyo al Proyecto cumpliendo con los compromisos de contraparte,
los tres primeros años de ejecución se otorgaron fondos en forma eficaz y oportuna los cuales
permitieron superar algunas dificultades generadas por los largos lapsos en la consecución de los fondos
del Banco y a los bajos aportes de los gobiernos estatales y municipales y que debieron ser asumidos
por el Gobierno Central. En el año 1999 la coyuntura económica y financiera del país afectó
notablemente la captación de fondos de contrapartida local, teniéndose como el punto más crítico el
año 2002      cuando los problemas financieros afectaron la ejecución de todos los componentes del



                                                   - 34 -

Proyecto, dando lugar a una deuda importante que se subsanó en el año 2003 mediante el apoyo
coordinado del Gobierno Nacional, la Asamblea Nacional y el Banco Mundial, que implicó un ajuste al
presupuesto 2003, un crédito adicional y una enmienda al convenio de Préstamo.

En relación con los procedimientos administrativos: Durante los años 1996-1999 existieron retardos
importantes en la consecución de los fondos del Banco motivado fundamentalmente a larga lista de
trámites administrativos en Venezuela, en virtud del gran número de instituciones públicas involucradas
en el proceso. Sin embargo después de varias negociaciones en las que participaron representantes del
Gobierno Nacional y del Banco se logró reducir el tiempo en el proceso de reposición de fondos del
Banco, hasta alcanzar un óptimo de tres semanas como máximo.

3.3 Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la Agencia Ejecutora.              En relación con la
administración financiera se implementaron medidas de control interno en el manejo de los fondos,
dotación de equipos adecuados, captación y capacitación de personal administrativo y técnico. Es de
destacar que la baja rotación en el personal técnico y administrativo tanto de la Unidad Coordinadora
del Proyecto como de la Fundación CIARA, permitió que se dieran respuestas inmediatas a los
problemas encontrados, favoreciendo la implementación de los ajustes y correctivos necesarios de
manera de afectar lo menor posible las actividades en el campo. Se logró flexibilizaciones en los
trámites administrativos respetando los compromisos asumidos por las partes en los contratos y
priorizando el destino de los fondos en momentos de escasez.

3.4 Costos y financiamiento. El costo total del proyecto fue estimado inicialmente en USD 79 MM de
los cuales USD MM 39 corresponden al aporte del Banco Mundial y USD MM 40 corresponden al
Gobierno Nacional; con un pari pasu inicial de 51% Gobierno Nacional y 49 % el Banco Mundial.

Los costos y financiamiento fueron modificados en 3 oportunidades siendo la más importante la
acaecida en el año 2001 donde se redimensionó el Proyecto basado en tres indicadores de ejecución
acordados con el Banco, los cuales se señalan en el Anexo 2a que implicaron la renuncia de USD MM 8
de los fondos del préstamo y un cambio del monto total del proyecto de USD MM 79 a US D MM 63.4
sin afectar el pari pasu del Proyecto ni sus objetivos iniciales. Además se realizaron cambios en las
categorías de gastos del Plan 1 del Convenio de préstamo para hacerlos consistentes a los montos
establecidos por componente en el SAR. Hasta el 31 de Diciembre de 2003 se ejecutó USD MM 58.49
lo que representa un 92.26 % del presupuesto ajustado y un 74.03% de lo previsto inicialmente en el
SAR.

Retardo en la ejecución y en los desembolsos

Durante el periodo de ejecución del Proyecto existieron retardos en la consecución de los fondos, en los
tres (3) primeros años fueron de difícil acceso los fondos del Banco Mundial y en los últimos cuatro (4)
años los del Gobierno Central. Además se debe señalar que no hubo una adecuada estrategia de
captación de los aportes de confinanciamiento con las gobernaciones y alcaldías lo cual provocó un
fuerte impacto después de 1999 dificultando el cumplimiento de metas físicas y la incorporación de
nuevos municipios y Estados a pesar de una fuerte demanda del servicio.

4. Sostenibilidad

El Proyecto de Extensión Agrícola se considera un programa de "probable sostenibilidad" ya que para la
continuación del mismo durante el año 2004, se cuenta con los recursos financieros para la operación de
100 núcleos de extensión, los cuales fueron aprobados por el Ministerio de Agricultura y Tierras y fueron
aprobados en la Ley de Presupuesto Público 2004, además existen cartas de intención para cofinanciar
el programa en más del 30% de los municipios operativos y el 41.6% de las gobernaciones ya tienen
presupuesto asignado, todo esto es consecuencia del trabajo realizado por las coordinaciones estatales
y las ACE´s a través de los Consejos Locales de Planificación Pública. También es importante destacar,
que en el peor de los casos, con los recursos del Gobierno Nacional se pueden realizar convenios con
100 ACE´s para la contratación de dos (02) agentes de extensión, incluyendo actividades de
capacitación.



                                                  - 35 -

En cuanto a la Descentralización, para fortalecer la participación local, cabe mencionar que al año 2003
se han firmado 77 Convenios entre la Fundación CIARA y Asociaciones Civiles de Extensión, donde se
transfiere a las ACE's, contratar, supervisar y avaluar a los extensionistas y se establece el compromiso
de la Fundación CIARA transferir, además, los recursos financieros necesarios para su manejo y
administración por parte de las ACE's. Igualmente se tiene previsto la reformulación del Sistema de
Seguimiento y Evaluación de manera tal de aprovechar toda la fortaleza que se tiene del proyecto que
estamos evaluando, pero además adaptarlo al nuevo enfoque que se quiere dar con la Segunda Fase.

5. Desempeño del Banco y del Prestatario

Banco Mundial

5.1 Otorgamiento de Préstamo. El proyecto se formuló sobre la base de las necesidades rurales del
agro venezolano, con un tiempo estimado de ejecución suficiente como para que la implementación
produjera efectos de empoderamiento al nivel de comunidades e instituciones. La preparación se
formuló con el apoyo de las organizaciones más pertinentes en el área del desarrollo rural y con los
expertos más calificados en extensión agrícola tanto de Venezuela como del Banco. El resultado fue un
proyecto de amplio contenido social y con efectos sobre la economía local y la seguridad alimentaria. En
la ejecución del proyecto se hicieron las modificaciones a metas originales de acuerdo a las capacidades
operativas y al flujo de los recursos, en las estimaciones de metas originales se planteo la ejecución en
18 estados y 180 municipios la cual se ajusto a 140 municipios y en realidad el numero máximo de
municipio donde se implemento el programa fue de 127 en 17 estados.

5.2 Supervisión

En materia financiera y administrativa. La supervisión podría calificarse de altamente satisfactoria ya
que existió a lo largo de todo el proyecto una oportuna identificación de los problemas y un fluido
intercambio de información entre la agencia ejecutora y el Banco que permitieron efectuar correctivos y
ajustes necesarios de forma expedita y coordinada. Las misiones de supervisión del Banco estuvieron
en todo momento integradas por especialistas, así como de personal del Banco en materia financiera y
de Procura altamente calificados, cuyas sugerencias y aportes fueron significativos en la consecución de
soluciones a los problemas específicos del Proyecto, de esta forma se logró flexibilizar los
procedimientos, lapsos y topes para contrataciones en los mecanismos de adquisiciones que sin duda
permitieron una mayor celeridad en la aprobación de los procesos por parte del Banco.

Durante toda la etapa de ejecución del Proyecto el Banco facilitó y propició el intercambio de
experiencias y fue receptivo a la solicitud de la Agencia Ejecutora en el momento de realizar
modificaciones en el acuerdo de préstamo a los fines de agilizar el acceso a los fondos solicitados.

En los aspectos técnicos. El desempeño del Banco se caracterizó por el seguimiento continuo de la
ejecución del Proyecto, debido a la presencia en todas las misiones de supervisión del Gerente de Tarea
(Task Manager) del Banco. Cabe destacar que cada misión de supervisión se realizó con consultores
especialistas con el objeto de recomendar y/o apoyar aspectos específicos importantes para la ejecución
del proyecto tales como: Desarrollo Institucional, Ambiente, Género, Calidad del Servicio de Extensión y
Evaluación Económica e Institucional del Proyecto; asegurándose así la continuidad de la supervisión de
las actividades respectivas, así como el cumplimiento de los acuerdos de cada una de las misiones que
se reflejaban en las ayudas memorias respectivas.

Es conveniente señalar que se contó desde el inicio con un plan de supervisión para los dos primeros
años del proyecto el cual respondía a la necesidad de supervisión continua desde el inicio, dado el
carácter de la primera experiencia del proyecto para el país en términos de descentralización y de la
modalidad innovadora de la prestación del servicio de extensión para pequeños y medianos
productores.




                                                   - 36 -

5.3 Desempeño Global del Banco. Altamente Satisfactorio.

Prestatario

5.4 Preparación.     En la preparación del Proyecto participó un equipo multidisciplinario altamente
comprometido con el mismo. Se elaboró un informe de diagnóstico que permitió la puesta en marcha del
Proyecto de Extensión Agrícola, en dos fases, en principio en 5 municipios pilotos y luego se irradió al
resto del país sobre la base de la demanda de alcaldes y gobernadores, con resultados Satisfactorios.

5.5 Desempeño de implementación del Gobierno. El periodo de ejecución del Proyecto transitó por
dos administraciones distintas de Gobierno, las cuales otorgaron un alto apoyo para su implementación,
una en la instalación del mismo y otra en darle continuidad. Hubo retardos en el cumplimiento de las
contribuciones financieras por desconocimiento de trámites, y complejos procesos administrativos a
diferentes niveles (central, estatal y municipal).

5.6   Agencia de Ejecutora.       El desempeño de la Agencia Ejecutora (Fundación CIARA) ha sido
Altamente Satisfactorio; facilitando las actividades de:

l   Evaluaciones Externas, con participación de profesionales de distintas áreas, profundizando en
    aspectos administrativos y técnicos (género, ambiente, agroproducción).
l   Mostrar la experiencia venezolana a delegaciones de otros países (Misiones de Sur América,
    Indonesia y África).
l   Revisión permanente del Proyecto en todas sus áreas, que incluyeron la revisión continua de los
    Sistemas de Seguimiento y Evaluación, contribuyendo a adecuar las necesidades internas, en
    cuanto a la recolección y tipo de información, con las pautas sugeridas por el Banco.

Los esfuerzos de la Agencia Ejecutora para la permanencia del Proyecto, han sido reconocidos por los
diferentes grupos de revisión externa. Asumir esta ejecución fortaleció a la Agencia al punto de
encomendársele la ejecución de otros programas y proyectos de características similares.

5.7 Desempeño global del Prestatario. Satisfactoria.

6. Lecciones Aprendidas

A continuación se describen una serie de factores que resultan relevantes de considerar en el momento
de realizar una evaluación del Proyecto, a saber:

En sus inicios el PREA, estuvo fuertemente orientado hacia la transferencia de tecnología para el
incremento de los rendimientos al nivel de las áreas de producción. Sin embargo, la realidad del trabajo
en el campo, así como las características de la población objetivo demostraron que además se
requeriría impulsar acciones para atacar aspectos tales como: i) la construcción de la ciudadanía rural
para ampliar la capacidad de participación        de las comunidades en la toma de decisiones; ii) la
promoción y fortalecimiento de las organizaciones de base para incrementar la capacidad de gestión
dirigida al mejoramiento de los servicios locales y de apoyo a la producción; iii) la diversificación
económica mediante el fomento de la agroindustria rural y de actividades rurales no agrícolas para la
generación de ingresos no tradicionales; iv) acceso efectivos a títulos de propiedad de la tierra; v)
provisión de financiamiento y su acceso real; y vi) perfil y profesionalización de los extensionistas.

La inclusión de los aspectos anteriores refleja la multifuncionalidad de la extensión; la coloca en su
dimensión rural y exige la acción coordinada con otros sectores e instituciones especializadas en estos
temas, todo lo cual se está considerando en la formulación de nuevos proyectos rurales de la Fundación
CIARA.

Entre los aspectos más resaltantes expresado por los diferentes actores que participaron en el programa
destacan:




                                                   - 37 -

l    La transferencia de las responsabilidades de planificación, seguimiento, evaluación y administración
     del programa a la ACE ha dado un mayor nivel de pertenencia y empoderamiento de los usuarios
     ("ahora sentimos verdaderamente que el programa es de nosotros").
l    Es indudable que con el fortalecimiento de la organización se puede acceder de manera más fácil a
     los beneficios de programas y proyectos económicos.
l    Para la ejecución de los planes, lograr mayores efectos e impactos es necesario incluir
     financiamiento para la ejecución de obras que se ejecuten con la participación de los beneficiarios.
l    Es necesario profundizar en la promoción de los logros obtenidos en el programa.
l    No todos los logros del programa son cuantificables en valores económicos, la posibilidad de
     participar, capacitarse y tomar decisiones que transforman su ámbito local, ha permitido el
     desarrollo de valores personales y habilidades de relacionamiento con beneficios personales
     sustanciales para los usuarios del programa.

7. Comentarios de los Socios

7.1 Prestatario/Agencia Ejecutora. La Unidad Coordinadora del Programa (UCP) fue la responsable
de ordenar los comentarios que siguen a continuación:

Ministerio de Agricultura y Tierras. El impacto causado con la ejecución de este Programa es
sumamente importante dado que:

1) Se creó una red institucional que involucró la participación concertada de gobernaciones, alcaldías,
instituciones gubernamentales, empresas privadas, institutos de educación superior, entre otros,
promoviendo la organización de los productores (as) en la clara intención de promover cambios de
naturaleza social, económica y técnica de la población;

2) Incidió en una mayor eficiencia de los procesos agroproductivos, promoviendo una mayor
disponibilidad y acceso a los alimentos, favoreciendo la seguridad alimentaria;

3) Promovió la inclusión de las variables de protección ambiental y de equidad de género, previstas en
la Constitución de la República Bolivariana de Venezuela;

4) Permitió a la Fundación CIARA constituirse como la primera institución que ofrece capacitación,
asistencia técnica y extensión en desarrollo rural, de obligada referencia y relacionamiento, como
organismo capaz de apoyar las políticas del Estado; y

5) Se reconoce el papel asumido por el Banco Mundial apoyando y contribuyendo, no solo en el
aspecto financiero, sino técnico y humano, permitiendo lazos de cooperación asesoramiento e
intercambios de experiencias.

7.2 Co-financiadores

Gobernaciones. La Agencia Ejecutora ha sido una institución de cooperación y atención continua, que
en materia de capacitación, fortaleció la permanencia del Programa de Extensión como estatal. Sin
embargo se hace necesario optar por otras fuentes de financiamiento, establecer alianzas
interinstitucionales y coordinar y articular las políticas nacionales con las regionales para satisfacer las
necesidades locales.

Alcaldías. La importancia del Programa de Extensión Agrícola radica en su filosofía de capacitación
orientada al seno familiar, apuntando al bienestar de productores(as) y sus familias. Ha sido soporte
para la ejecución de otros programas en el área rural (Sobremarcha CIARA-PAN, Telefood-FAO) que
permiten el mejoramiento económico y de la calidad de vida de la familia rural, asimismo ha logrado una
cuota de participación muy importante en los Consejos Locales de Planificación Pública a través de la
participación con diferentes organizaciones (ACE, asociaciones de productores, asociaciones de
vecinos, asociaciones de padres y representantes entre otras).




                                                     - 38 -

Empresas Ejecutoras. Desde el punto de vista institucional permitió a las empresas la profundización y
desarrollo de la experticia, en el abordaje de servicios técnicos dirigidos a comunidades de
productores(as), implementadas en alianzas y coordinación con instituciones públicas y privadas,
favoreciendo un mejor desempeño profesional e institucional. El PREA ha permitido el desarrollo de las
comunidades rurales con la implementación de un proyecto integral, basado en la capacitación y que ha
llegado a lugares y personas que nunca tuvieron esta oportunidad. Se hace necesario acompañar la
gestión del programa con un componente de apoyo financiero para los agricultores.

7.3 Otros Socios (ONG´s/Sector Privado)

Asociaciones Civiles de Extensión. El proceso organizativo generado en la población rural atendida,
permitió la construcción de una visión de conjunto en los municipios, ayudando al establecimiento y
comprensión de los intereses y problemáticas comunes de los productores(as) y de la viabilidad de
propuestas y proyectos propios que vinculan y fortalece a las comunidades. La transferencia del
Programa de Extensión Agrícola ha permitido acrecentar la participación y facilitado el empoderamiento
de los productores.

Usuarios. Mediante la ejecución del proyecto se aprendieron nuevas técnicas para aplicarlas en la
actividad productiva, las cuales mejoraron la producción, traduciéndose en una mejor alimentación de la
familia.

Se atendieron necesidades de hombres, mujeres y jóvenes a través de cursos, talleres y reuniones, y de
la realización de actividades como huertos familiares, transformación de materia prima, etc., que
involucra a diferentes miembros de la familia. Las prácticas recomendadas tuvieron un alto valor en la
conservación del ambiente y en la salud de los usuarios.

Los usuarios del proyecto forman parte de una organización que es la Asociación Civil de Extensión, la
cual se encarga de garantizar el servicio de extensión en el municipio, y también ayuda a gestionar la
solución de problemas de la comunidad; otros usuarios participan en otras organizaciones promovidas
y/o apoyadas por los extensionistas.




                                                 - 39 -

- 40 -

