Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3862-VE
                               Loan Agreement
                      (Agricultural Extension Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated October 12, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3862-VE
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
       WHEREAS (B) the Project will be carried out by Fundacion
para la Capacitacion e Investigacion Aplicada a la Reforma
Agraria (CIARA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CIARA the
proceeds of the loan as provided in this Agreement;
       WHEREAS the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that
the execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower's Law "Ley que Authoriza al Ejecutivo Nacional para la
Contratacion y Ejecucion de Operaciones de Credito Publico
durante el Ejercicio Fiscal" published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette Issue No. 4831 dated December 29, 1994;
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
             "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
       under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
       be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
       Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "ACE" means an asociacion civil de extension, civil
association for extension, a legal entity to be established
within the jurisdiction of a Municipality with the
organizational structure, responsibilities and functions
described in the Operational Manual;
       (b)   "ACE Agreement" means any of the agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between CIARA, the
Participating Municipality and the respective ACE pursuant to
paragraph 5 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement
and "ACE Agreements" means all of such agreements;
       (c)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central;
       (d)   "Charter" means the Borrower's Decreto No. 2803 dated
February 4, 1993 and published in the Borrower's Official
Gazzette No. 35.199 dated April 28, 1993 as amended from time
to time;
       (e)   "CIARA" means the Borrowerþs Fundacion para la
Capacitacion e Investigacion Aplicada a la Reforma Agraria,
Foundation for Training and Applied Research for Agrarian
Reform, established by the Borrowerþs Decreto 562 dated June
14, 1964, as amended by the Borrower's Decreto No. 2803 dated
February 4, 1993 and published in the Borrowerþs Official
Gazette No. 35.199 dated April 28, 1993;
       (f)   "Extension Agent" means an entity, including
universities and non-governmental organizations, which meets
the criteria in the Operational Manual to be eligible to
provide extension services under the Project;
       (g)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators, for
purposes of measuring progress in the implementation of the
Project included in the letter from CIARA to the Bank of even
date herewith;
       (h)   "Municipality" means each of the Municipios,
political autonomous divisions established in the Constitution
of Venezuela;
       (i)   "Municipal Participation Agreement" means any of the
agreements to be entered into between CIARA, a Participating
Page  3
State and a Municipality pursuant to Section 2.01 (c) (ii) of
the Project Agreement and "Municipal Participation Agreements"
means all of such agreements;
       (j)   "Operational Manual" means the operational manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be approved by CIARA pursuant  to
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, setting forth the rules and
procedures for the implementation of the Project, and the
eligibility criteria for Extension Agents, as the same may be
amended from time to time by agreement between CIARA and the
Bank;
       (k)   "Participating ACE" means any ACE which has entered
into an ACE Agreement and "Participating ACEs" means all of
such ACEs;
       (l)   "Participating Entities" means the Participating
States, the Participating Municipalities and the Participating
ACEs; and "Participating Entity" means any of such entities;
       (m)   "Participating Municipality" is any Municipality
which has entered into a Municipal Participation Agreement;
       (n)   "Participating State" is any State which has entered
into a State Participation Agreement;
       (o)   "Participation Agreements" means the State
Participation Agreements, the Municipal Participation
Agreements and the ACE Agreements and "Participation Agreement"
means any of such agreements;
       (p)   "PCU" means the unit, to be established by CIARA
pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, for purposes of
coordinating and supervising the implementation of the Project;
       (q)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CIARA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such terms includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
       (r)   "Small Farmer" means a person, predominately engaged
in agricultural activities, and which is identified by a
Participating Municipality to be a beneficiary of extension
activities under the Project based on the methodology and
procedures described in the Operational Manual;
       (s)   "State" means each of the estados, political
autonomous division established in the Constitution of
Venezuela, and the Federal District (Distrito Federal) of the
Borrower;
       (t)   "State Participation Agreement" means any of the
agreements to be entered into between CIARA and a State
pursuant to Section 2.01 (c) (i) of the Project Agreement and
"State Participation Agreements" means all of such agreements;
       (u)   "State Unit" means each of the units, satisfactory to
the Bank, to be established by a Participating State for
purposes of coordinating the Project activities in the
respective Participating State; and
       (v)   "Subject Matter Specialist" mean an individual with
technical expertise in subject matters relevant to the
provision of extension services as described in the Operational
Manual;
       (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
                                 ARTICLE II
Page  4
                                  The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of thirty nine million dollars
($39,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02.(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
       (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and mantain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 of this
Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
             (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.
Page  5
       (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
             principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
             outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
             Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
             determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
             one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
             dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
             the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
             principal amount outstanding during the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                   "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
             each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
             the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
             respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
             1 in a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                 Execution of the Project and Other Matters
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause CIARA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
CIARA therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CIARA
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
       (b)   Without limitation to the provisions in paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to CIARA, on a timely basis, as budgetary
allocations.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement.
       Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out , or caused to be
carried out, by CIARA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
       Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, not later than May 31 of each year of the execution
Page  6
of the Project, evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing
that the respective final annual budget submitted to the
Borrower's Congress includes adequate resources to carry out
the Project in the upcoming year in accordance with the
respective annual investment program approved by the Bank
pursuant to Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement.
       Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, and shall cause CIARA
to, ensure that the utilization of pesticides, and the
provision of technical assistance related to pesticides, is
made in accordance with the standards, procedures and
guidelines established by the Food and Agriculture Organization
and the World Health Organization in force at the date of the
Loan Agreement.
       Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure, at all times,
that CIARA is the sole public entity at the national level in
charge of agricultural extension services and their financial
support.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       (a)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
             (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained,
                   until at least one year after the Bank has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year
                   in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made; and
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, including
                   those for the Special Account, for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
Page  7
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   CIARA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that CIARA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (c)   The Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of CIARA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of CIARA or for the suspension of its
operations.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional evens are specified:
       (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
       (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   CIARA has entered into State Participation Agreements
with, at least, two States and such States have established, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, the respective
State Units;
       (b)   Municipal Participation Agreements have been executed
with, at least, five Municipalities, within the jurisdiction of
any of the two States which have entered into State
Participation Agreements pursuant to paragraph (a) above, and
an Extension Agent has been retained, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide extension services in each
of such Municipalities;
       (c)   CIARA has formally approved the Operational Manual;
       (d)   CIARA has established the PCU with staffing,
functions and structure satisfactory to the Bank; and
       (e)   CIARA has carried out, and submitted to the Bank,
studies under Part D.4 of the Project in respect of five
States, including the two States which have entered into State
Participation Agreements pursuant to paragraph (a) above, and
the Municipalities in each of such five States.
       Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Condition, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
Page  8
furnished to the Bank;
       (a)   that each of the agreements referred to in Section
6.01 (a) and (b) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by the respective parties thereto, and are legally
binding upon said parties in accordance with their respective
terms; and
       (b)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by CIARA, and is legally binding upon CIARA in
accordance with its terms.
       Section 6.03. The date January 10, 1996 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministerio de Hacienda
             Direccion General
             Sectorial de Finanzas Publicas
             Edificio Norte, Piso 5
             Centro Simon Bolivar
             Caracas 1010, Venezuela
                                                  Telex:
                                                  24215 HDACP
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                         By /s/ Luis Raul Matos Azocar
                                                   Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  9
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated                  % of
                              (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                   100,000              50%
(2)  Goods                       1,800,000              100% of foreign
                                                        expenditures and
                                                        45% of local
                                                        expenditures
(3)  Technical                   5,000,000              100%
     assistance
     and studies
(4)  Consultants'               13,200,000              46%
     services
     including
     the services
     of the Exten-
     sion Agents
(5)  Training                    1,200,000              50%
(6)  Grants under                  500,000              100%
     Part D.7 of
     the Project
(7)  Incremental                17,200,000              70% until with-
     Recurrent costs                                    drawals under
                                                        this category
                                                        shall have
                                                        reached an
                                                        aggregate amount
                                                        of $5,000,000;
                                                        thereafter 50%
                                                        until withdrawals
                                                        under this
                                                        Category shall
                                                        have reached an
                                                        aggregate amount
                                                        of $11,000,000 and
                                                        thereafter 30%
                                __________
        TOTAL                   39,000,000
                                ==========
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
Page  10
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c)   the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means salaries
to be paid to the PCU staff and the State Units, travel
expenditures of staff of CIARA and the State Units in
connection with the supervision of the Project, office supplies
for the PCU and State Units, promotional and technical
materials issued by CIARA in connection with the Project,
maintenance expenditures of equipment acquired under the
Project, telephone expenditures of State Units, transportation
costs of the State Units including fuel, maintenance and
depreciation of vehicles, consumables for field demonstration
activities (vaccines, and seeds), training materials and any
other incremental recurrent costs which may be agreed between
CIARA and the Bank; and
       (d)   the term "Grants" means the grants to be made by
CIARA to an eligible individual or entity under Part D.7 of the
Project under the criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $3,900,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after October 12, 1994;
       (b)   payments made for expenditures under Part A.2 of the
Project unless: (i) the respective State has entered into the
respective State Participation Agreement; (ii) the respective
State has entered into, at least, one Municipal Participation
Agreement; and (iii) the respective State has established, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, the State Unit;
       (c)   payments made for expenditures under Parts B and C.1
of the Project unless: (i) the respective State and
Municipality have entered into the respective State
Participation Agreement and Municipal Participation Agreement;
(ii) the respective State has established, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, the State Unit; and (iii)
no other agricultural extension services are being provided in
the jurisdiction of the respective Participating Municipality
except those agricultural extension services which, in the
opinion of the Bank, are complementary to those carried out
under the Project; and
       (d)   payment for expenditures under the Project unless the
respective expenditures are included in an annual investment
program submitted to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.06 (b) of
the Project Agreement and approved by the Bank;
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for civil works not exceeding
$250,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for informatic equipment not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for goods, other
than informatic equipment, not exceeding $150,000 equivalent;
and (c) contracts for consultantsþ services not exceeding
$25,000 equivalent, in respect of individuals, and $50,000
equivalent in respect of consulting firms; and (e) categories
(5), (6) and (7) of the table in this Schedule, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
Page  11
       The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist Small
Farmers to become aware of, and to adopt, improved technology
to enhance their productive efficiency, their income and their
welfare and to improve the environmental sustainability of
their farming operations; and (b) to assist the Borrower in
establishing and operating a new decentralized extension
system.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Institutional Development
       Institutional development at the national and state levels
to coordinate and administer a new decentralized extension
system including:
1.     At the national level: (a) the establishment and operation
of a new organizational structure of CIARA; (b) provision of
services by Subject-Matter Specialists to CIARA in: (i)
specialized technical areas such as crop protection, irrigation
and fertilization, farm management, farm machinery, methodology
of field trials and surveys and environmental sustainability of
agricultural techniques; and (ii) extension methodology
including monitoring and evaluation, institutional development
for participatory farmers groups, programming and planning of
national activities and communications and publications; and
(c) short term consultancies for purposes of complementing the
services in paragraph (b) above as determined between CIARA and
the Bank.
2.     At the state level, the establishment and operation of the
State Units.
Part B:      Extension Services
       Provision of extension services, by Extension Agents, to
Small Farmers in Participating Municipalities including farm
visits, demonstration plots and field trials, applied courses
and field days.
Part C:      Training
1.     A training program consisting of: (1) an induction
training program, for CIARA staff, State Units staff, Extension
Agents, board members of ACEs and selected Small Farmers, on
administrative, technical, methodological, conceptual,
sociocultural and legal aspects of the extension system; (2) an
in-service program, for CIARA staff, State Units staff,
Extension Agents, board members of ACEs and selected Small
Farmers, to provide intensive training for extensionists in
specific technical subjects related to the agricultural
production systems of States and Municipalities, extension
methodology, environmental impact of agricultural activities
and conservation methods, participative methods in programming
and planning and monitoring and evaluation; and (3) a
continuing education program, for CIARA staff, State Units
staff, and board members of ACEs to increase the knowledge and
skills of extension personnel in agricultural science and
public institutional management topics and other topics
relevant to their responsibilities in the extension system.
2.     (a)   Construction of training facilities at the
CIARA for the above induction training program; (b) renovation
of CIARAþs facilities including its national agricultural
extension library; and (c) improvement of the services of the
above library through the updating and maintaining of its
collection of books and materials, acquisition and utilization
of new furniture and computer and filing equipment to upgrade
its capacity in areas of information storage, processing and
Page  12
retrieval and the installation of a new air
conditioning/environmental control system.
Part D:      Technical Assistance and Studies
1.     (a)   Development and utilization of a methodology
for the systematic collection of data on the farming population
of each Participating Municipality by characteristic categories
agreed between CIARA and the Bank; (b) development of a
baseline database from the data collected by Extension Agents
in the Participating Municipalities and from the data obtained
through the Borrower's agricultural census, censo agricola; (c)
updating of the above baseline database under a systematic
methodology; and (d) analysis of the above baseline database.
2.     Studies to prepare a framework and practical field
methodology for the systematic gathering, compiling and
analysis of data on the Small Farmers.
3.     An evaluation of: (a) the effectiveness of the
implementation of the Project; and (b) the environmental impact
of the Project.
4.     Studies to evaluate the current use of state and municipal
budgets for agricultural activities including extension
services.
5.     Studies on selected matters, agreed between CIARA and the
Bank, which would improve the effectiveness of agricultural
extension and other rural development activities or assist in
the monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of the
Project.
6.     Technical assistance in connection with the dissemination
of new extension techniques, the establishment and operation of
ACEs and effective farmer participation in such entities,
development and adoption of methodological techniques and
innovations, development of the institutional capabilities of
CIARA and State Units to design, plan, and implement
agricultural extension and technology transfer, pilot programs
in selected municipalities to evaluate alternative extension
methods or alternative technological packages, the
investigation of the environmental impact of agricultural
extension services and agricultural activities in general, and
other activities, agreed between CIARA and the Bank, which
would improve the effectiveness and sustainability of
agricultural extension and other rural development activities
or would assist in the evaluation and monitoring of the
Project.
7.     A program of competitive-based grants for the financing of
experimental agricultural extension projects for purposes of
evaluating new farming technologies and new extension
methodologies.
                                    * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
       Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15,                   1,950,000
 beginning October 15, 2000
 through April 15, 2010
Page  13
_____________________________
*      The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
       determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
       General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
       Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
       Time of Prepayment                    Premium
                                The interest rate (expressed as a
                                percentage per annum) applicable to
                                the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
       before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
       not more than six years
       before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
       not more than 11 years
       before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
       more than 13 years
       before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
       maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 7 set froth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
       (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been dully opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
       (b) (i)      For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
       All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accout, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
       (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  15
       (b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
       (c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
       (d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
       Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or madesuch deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
       (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
       (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
       (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
