Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3862-VE
                              Project Agreement
                      (Agricultural Extension Project)
                                   between
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
               FUNDACION PARA LA CAPACITACION E INVESTIGACION
                    APLICADA A LA REFORMA AGRARIA (CIARA)
                           Dated October 12, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3862-VE
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
Fundacion para la Capacitacion e Investigacion Aplicada a la
Reforma Agraria (CIARA).
       WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Venezuela (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty nine million dollars
($39,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CIARA agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
       WHEREAS CIARA, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                                 Definitions
       Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
Page  2
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                 ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 2.01. (a) CIARA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project,
with the assistance of the Participating Entities as provided
in the respective Participation Agreements in respect of Parts
A, B, C.1, and D of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, technical, engineering and environmental practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Bank and CIARA shall
otherwise agree, CIARA shall carry out the Project in accor-
dance with the Implementation Program set forth in part I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Operational Manual and each
of the annual investment programs plans approved by the Bank
pursuant to Section 2.06 (b) of this Agreement.
       (c)   Without limitation to the provisions in paragraph (a)
above, CIARA shall:
                (i)    enter into an agreement with each State
                       willing to participate in the execution of
                       the Project under terms and conditions which
                       shall have been approved by the Bank
                       including those set forth in Part II of
                       Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
                (ii)   enter into an agreement with each
                       Municipality willing to participate in the
                       execution of the Project, and the respective
                       Participating State, under terms and
                       conditions which shall have been approved by
                       the Bank including those set forth in Part
                       II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
               (iii)   enter into ACE Agreements subject to,
                       and in accordance with, the plan
                       referred to in Section 2.07 (f) of this
                       Agreement;
                (iv)   duly perform its obligations, and exercise
                       its rights, under each State Participation
                       Agreement, each Municipal Participation
                       Agreement and each ACE Agreement, all in
                       such manner as to protect the interests of
                       the Borrower, CIARA and the Bank, comply
                       with its obligations under this Agreement
                       and achieve the objectives of the Project.
                       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
                       CIARA shall, and shall cause to, not assign,
                       amend, abrogate or fail to enforce or waive
                       any Participation Agreement or any provision
                       thereof.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. (a) CIARA shall carry out, or cause to be
Page  3
carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the
Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, CIARA shall:
              (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
                     to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later
                     than six (6) months after the Closing Date or
                     such later date as may be agreed for this
                     purpose between the Bank and CIARA, a plan for
                     the future operation of the Project;
             (ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                     exchange views with CIARA on said plan; and
            (iii)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due
                     diligence and efficiency and in accordance
                     with appropriate practices, taking into
                     account the Bank's comments thereon.
    Section 2.04. CIARA shall (a) maintain an organizational
structure, functions and staff satisfactory to the Bank; (b)
promptly inform the Bank of any change in such organizational
structure, functions or staff; (c) without limitation to
paragraph (a) above, maintain the PCU with a structure,
functions and staff satisfactory to the Bank; (d) without
limitation to paragraph (a) above, maintain an environmental
specialist and the director of the PCU, with experience,
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
and (e) limit its programs and activities to those included
under the Project and those that would not adversely affect, in
the opinion of the Bank, the implementation of the Project or
the achievement of its objectives.
       Section 2.05. (a) CIARA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
       (b)   CIARA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by CIARA of its obligations under this Agreement.
       Section 2.06. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, CIARA shall furnish to the
Bank:
       (a)   not later than January 15 of each year of Project
execution, starting in 1996, progress reports on: (i) the
Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including, inter alia: (A) information on the progress
achieved in the implementation and in the achievement of the
objectives of the Project based, inter alia, on the Monitoring
Indicators; (B) an assessment of the problems and issues
derived from the implementation of the Project; (C) information
on the compliance by the Participating Entities of their
obligations under the respective Participation Agreement and,
if the case may be, a plan of action detailing the adjustments
and remedial action to be taken for their compliance with such
obligations; and
       (b)   for its review and approval, not later than February
15 of each year of Project execution, a proposed annual
investment program providing for the activities, implementation
schedule and proposed budget in respect of each Part of the
Page  4
Project during the upcoming year.
       Section 2.07. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, CIARA shall:
       (a)   not later than March 1 of each year during the
execution of the Project, starting in 1996, hold annual Project
reviews with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports
referred to in Section 2.06 (a) of this Agreement and to focus,
inter alia, on: (i) the evaluation of the progress in the
execution and in the achievement of the objectives of the
Project based on, among other factors, the Monitoring
Indicators; (ii) on the proposed annual investment program for
the Project in the upcoming year; (iii) any changes in the
Project design and implementation that may be necessary;
       (b)   not later than December 15, 1997, contract, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) an independent
firm, acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of undertaking an
assessment of the implementation of the Project; and (ii) an
independent firm, acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of
undertaking an assessment of the impact which extension
services have had upon the environmental sustainability of the
farming operations of Small Farmers including an inventory of
environmentally sustainable techniques promoted by the
extension services and the extent to which such techniques are
adopted by the Small Farmers of the Project;
       (c)   not later than April 15, 1998, furnish to the Bank a
copy of the findings and recommendations of the above
assessments;
       (d)   not later than June 15, 1998, review with the Bank
(mid-term review), in addition to the items referred to in (a)
above, the impact of the Project based on, inter alia, impact
indicators satisfactory to the Bank; the findings and
recommendations referred to in paragraph (c) above; and the
development and experience of the ACEs and the conditions and
timetable for their assumption of responsibilities in the
execution of extension activities in the jurisdiction of the
respective Participating Municipalities;
       (e)   if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
shall have reasonably determined that the progress in the
execution of the Project or in the attainment of the objectives
of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to
be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the
Bank's rights under this Agreement, all such action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the
efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its
objectives; and
       (f)   without limitation to paragraph (e) above, CIARA
shall submit to the Bank, not later than July 15, 1998, a time
bound plan, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the
transfer of responsibilities to selected ACEs, including the
execution of ACE Agreements, for the execution of extension
activities in the jurisdiction of the respective Participating
Municipalities; and (b) implement, and cause to implement, the
above plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of CIARA
       Section 3.01. CIARA shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, technical and environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.02. CIARA shall at all times operate and
Page  5
maintain its offices, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and technical practices.
       Section 3.03. CIARA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) CIARA shall: (i) maintain a consolidated
set of records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operation,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project; and (ii)
cause each Participation Entity to maintain records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project activities carried out by the
respective Participating Entity.
       (b)   CIARA shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
       Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
       Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of CIARA thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CIARA thereof.
       Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
       Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
Page  6
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
       For CIARA:
             2da. Transversal,
             Urb. Los Molinos, San Martin
             Caracas, 5080
             Republic of Venezuela
       Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of CIARA may be taken or
executed by the Director Gerente of CIARA or such other person
or persons as the Director Gerente of CIARA shall designate in
writing, and CIARA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
       Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                   FUNDACION PARA LA CAPACITACION
                    E INVESTIGACION APLICADA A LA REFORMA AGRARIA (CIARA)
                   By /s/ Luis Raul Matos Azocar
                                                   Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
Part 1.      Implementation Program
1.     The costs of the extension activities under Part B of the
Project in respect of each Participating Municipality shall be
Page  7
financed in accordance with the following contributions:
       (a)   for the first year of the Project, a maximum of 75%
from CIARA, a minimum of 10% from the respective Participating
State, a minimum of 10% from the respective Participating
Municipality and a minimum of 5% from the Small Farmers;
       (b)   for the second year of the Project, a maximum of 70%
from CIARA, a minimum of 15% from the respective Participating
State, a minimum of 10% from the respective Participating
Municipality and a minimum of 5% from the Small Farmers;
       (c)   for the third and fourth years of the Project, a
maximum of 50% from CIARA, a minimum of 20% from the respective
Participating State, a minimum of 20% from the respective
Participating Municipality and a minimum of 10% from the Small
Farmers; and
       (d)   for the fifth year of the Project and thereafter, a
maximum of 25% from CIARA, a minimum of 25% from the respective
Participating State, a minimum of 30% from the respective
Participating Municipality and a minimum of 20% from the Small
Farmers.
2.     Each Participating Municipality shall prepare and approve
an annual municipal investment program containing the proposed
activities, and detailed budget, to be carried out under Part
B of the Project in the upcoming year.  Such program shall be
submitted to the respective State Unit, for their review and
approval, not later than January 15 of each year of Project
execution.
3.     Each State Unit shall prepare and submit, not later than
January 30 of each year of Project execution, to CIARA, for its
review and approval, a proposed annual state investment program
to include a consolidation of each of the annual municipal
investment programs reviewed by the State Unit as well as the
additional Project activities it proposes to carry out in the
upcoming year.
4.     A Participating Municipality shall cease, after its first
year of participation in the Project, to be eligible to
continue participating in the Project and receive financing
under Part B of the Project unless (a) an ACE has been duly
established in its jurisdiction in accordance with the terms
and provisions described in the Operational Manual and (b) such
ACE has agreed, through contractual arrangements or other legal
means satisfactoryto the Bank, to collaborate in the
preparation of annual municipal investment programs and the
evaluation of the performance of the respective Extension
Agent.
5.     A Participating Municipality shall cease to be eligible to
continue participating in the Project and receive financing
under Part B of the Project unless it has entered into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with CIARA and the
respective ACE whereby the latter assumes the sole
responsibility for the execution of extension activities in the
jurisdiction of such Municipality and receives the necessary
funds for such activities, all in accordance with the plan
referred to in Section 2.07 (f) of this Agreement.
6.     Annual training plans under the Project for the Extension
Agents extensionists will include activities dealing with the
environmental impact of traditional and emerging agricultural
production techniques and integrated pest management and other
practices and techniques designed to permit more effective
incorporation of ecological factors into overall farm
management.
7.     CIARA shall evaluate the environmental impact, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, of each annual municipal investment
Page  8
program included in the respective annual investment programs
submitted to the Bank for its review and approval pursuant to
Section 2.06 (b) of this Agreement.
8.     The contribution made by CIARA for the financing of
extension services in the jurisdiction of a Participating
Municipality shall not exceed the equivalent of $100,000 per
year.
9.     CIARA: (i) not later than September 1, 1995, shall prepare
and submit to the Bank a plan, satisfactory to the bank, of
activities to promote the Project to States, Municipalities and
Small Farmers; and (ii) thereafter, implement such plan in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
10.    CIARA, not later than September 1, 1995, shall have: (i)
distributed the Operational Manual to all States and
Municipalities participating in the implementation of the
Project in the first year; and (ii) carried out training
activities on the utilization of the Operational Manual in such
States and Municipalities.
Part 2.      Terms and Conditions of the Participation Agreements
1.     The Participating Entity shall declare its acceptance of
the objectives of the Project and adhere to the terms and
provisions of the Operational Manual and the Implementation
Program in Part 1 of this Schedule.
2.     The Participating Entity shall carry out its part of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, financial, technical,
administrative and environmental standards, the Operational
Manual and the annual investment programs approved by the Bank
pursuant to Section 2.06 (b) of this Agreement.
3.     The Participating Entity shall provide, or cause to be
provided, in a timely manner, the funds, facilities,  services
and other resources required to carry out its respective part
of the Project.
4.     The Participating Entity shall: (i) have the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement apply to any procurement of civil
works, goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for purposes of the part of the Project to be carried
out by the Participating Entity in question; and (ii) ensure
that such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of such part of the Project.
5.     The Participating Entity shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions with regard to the parts of the Project
to be carried out by the Participating Entity in question.
6.     In the case of a State Participation Agreement, the
Participating State shall:
       (a)   maintain and operate the State Unit with an
             organizational structure, functions and staffing as
             provided in the Operational Manual;
       (b)   without limitation to paragraph (a) above, ensure
             that the State Unit is headed, at all times, by a
             coordinator with experience and qualifications
             satisfactory to CIARA and the Bank;
       (c)   through the State Unit: (i) assist Participating
             Municipalities in the preparation of their proposed
             annual municipalities in the preparation of their
             proposed annual municipal investment programs; (ii)
             evaluate and approve the annual municipal investment
             programs; (iii) submit to CIARA, not later than
Page  9
             January 31 in each year of Project execution, the
             proposed annual investment program for the Project
             activities to be carried out in the respective State
             in the upcoming year; (iv) assist CIARA in
             monitoring and supervising the performance of the
             Participating Municipalities in carrying out Project
             activities under their responsibility; (v)
             coordinate the activities of the Subject Matter
             Specialists at the state level; and (vi) submit to
             CIARA, not later than January 15 of each year of
             Project execution, a report, of such scope and
             detail as described in the Operational Manual,
             containing a complete record of the yields obtained
             by each Small Farmer in the respective State during
             the previous calendar year; and
       (d)   collaborate with each Participating Municipality in
             the establishment of the respective ACE and its
             operation in accordance with the Operational Manual.
7.     In the case of a Municipal Participation Agreement, the
Participating Municipality shall: (a) collect, and thereafter
transfer to CIARA, the contribution of the Small Farmers for
the financing of extension activities in its jurisdiction in
accordance with the mechanism described in the Operational
Manual; (b) take all necessary action to establish the
respective ACE in its jurisdiction within the first year of its
participation in the Project; (c) ensure, through contractual
arrangements or other legal means satisfactory to the Bank,
that the respective ACE shall participate in the preparation of
annual municipal investment programs and evaluation of the
performance of the respective Extension Agent as described in
the Operational Manual; (d) enter into an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with CIARA and the respective ACE
providing that the latter shall be the sole responsible entity
for carrying out extension activities in the respective
municipal jurisdiction including the selection and contracting
of the Extension Agent, all subject to, and in accordance with,
the plan referred to in Section 2.07 (f) of this Agreement; and
(e) submit, not later than December 15 of each year of Project
execution, a report, of such scope and detail as described in
the Operational Manual, containing a complete record of the
yields obtained by each Small Farmer in the respective
Municipality during the current calendar year.
8.      CIARA shall have the right to suspend or terminate the
participation of a Participating Entity in the Project or the
disbursement of funds if the latter fails to comply with any of
its obligations under the respective Participation Agreement or
any criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.     When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
Page  10
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
3.     In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, CIARA shall use, or cause the Participating Entities to use,
the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, CIARA shall use, or cause the Participating Entities to
use, bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
4.     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Venezuela may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Informatic equipment (computers, peripheral equipment and
computer software) estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000
or less per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list
of potential suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, broad
enough to assure competitive prices (which list is to include
all suppliers where there is only a limited number) and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56
thereof).
2.     Informatic equipment (computers, peripheral equipment and
computer software) estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or less per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
3.     Equipment (other than the informatic equipment referred to
in Part C.1 and C.2 above) and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract or bid package, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.     Equipment (other than the informatic equipment referred to
in Part C.1 and C.2 above), and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract or bid package, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
Page  11
to the Bank.
5.     Training materials, office supplies, vaccines and seeds,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $4,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
6.     Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or less may be procured under a contract awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:      Standard Bidding Documents
       In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part C.1
hereof, CIARA shall use or cause to be used, standard bidding
documents as provided in Part A.3 above.
Part E:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
       (a)   With respect to each contract for goods procured
under the procedures referred to in Part A, Part C.1 and Part
C.3 of this Schedule the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. For each
contract for goods procured under the procedures referred to in
Part C.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall submit the
respective list of potential suppliers for approval before
inviting bids. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
       (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be notified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
       (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.        Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist CIARA and the Participating Entities in
carrying out the Project, CIARA and the Participating Entities
shall employ or cause to be employed, consultants, including
Extension Agents, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants, including Extension Agents, shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments,
CIARA and the Participating Entities shall employ such
Page  12
consultants, including Extension Agents, under contracts using
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, CIARA and the Participating Entities
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$25,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above; (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $25,000 equivalent or above; or (f) contracts for the
employment of Extension Agents.
