Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
December 12, 2002 
 
Dr. Tobías Nóbrega 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Avenida Urnadeta 
Edificio Ramia – piso 9 
Caracas, Venezuela 
 
Re: 
Japanese Grant to assist in the Implementation of the 
 
Agricultural Extension Project (Loan No. 3862-VE) 
 
-
Grant No. TF050624
Excellency, 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make 
a
grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred forty thousand four hundred U.S. Dollars 
(US$240,400) (the Grant) to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
By /s/ Mark Hagerstrom 
Acting Country Director 
Colombia – Mexico – Venezuela Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA 
 
By: 
/s/ Jesús R. Bermudez A. 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Date: January 8, 2003 
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
(a) 
The purposes of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the 
Agricultural Extension Project, which: (i) has as main objective to: (A) assist small farmers 
become aware of, and to adopt improved technology to enhance their productive efficiency, their 
income and their welfare and to improve the environmental sustainability of their farming 
operations; and (B) assist the Recipient in establishing and operating a new decentralized 
extension system (the Project); and (ii) is governed by the terms of the Loan Agreement (Loan 
Agreement) and the Project Agreement (the Project Agreement) entered into between the Bank 
and the Recipient, both pertaining to Loan No.3862-VE and both dated October 12, 1995 (as such 
Loan Agreement and Project Agreement have been and/or may be amended from time to time). 
 
(b) 
The Activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(i) 
provision of technical assistance for the design and execution of a 
competition among CIARA extension units aimed at identifying a 
selected number of case studies (the studies) on gender integration in 
agricultural extension (these Activities are estimated to cost US$23,400 
equivalent); 
 
(ii) 
provision of technical assistance for the preparation of the studies with the 
objective of demonstrating the value of adding a gender focus in 
agricultural extension and identifying successful methodologies and 
institutional arrangements to apply a gender perspective in agricultural 
extension (these Activities are estimated to cost US$175,000 equivalent); 
and 
 
(iii) 
provision of technical assistance for the carrying out workshops to 
disseminate the studies’  findings among stake holders and all other 
interested parties (these Activities are estimated to cost US$42,000 
equivalent). 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall:  
 
(a) cause 
the 
Fundación para la Capacitación e Investigación Aplicada a la Reforma 
Agraria 
(CIARA): 
 
(i) 
to carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; 
 
(ii) 
to promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required  
 
for that purpose; 
 
(iii) 
to furnish all information covering the Activities and the  
Page  3
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(iv) 
to, from time to time, exchange views with the Bank’s  
 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and 
 
(b) 
take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to supervise execution. 
 
2.2. 
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall or shall cause CIARA to, if the Bank 
shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.3 
(a) 
The Recipient shall enter into an implementation agreement with CIARA under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (the Implementation Agreement) including, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) The Recipient’s obligation to make the Grant proceeds available to CIARA for 
implementation of the Activities; and (ii) CIARA’ s obligation to carry out the Activities and 
fulfill its obligations as set forth in this Letter Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such 
a
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Grant. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the training and the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be carried out by CIARA on behalf of the Recipient and shall be governed by the 
provisions of Attachment II to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by CIARA in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
Item
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in U.S. Dollars
)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services  
230,200 
88% 
 
(2) Workshops 
10,200 
88% 
 ______ 
 
 
TOTAL 
240,400 
====== 
 
Page  4
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “workshops” means the non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Recipient in connection with the carrying out of the training activities and workshops 
including travel costs and per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities and 
equipment, and training materials. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement; (ii) on account of payments for 
any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the 
Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2003 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided 
that, except in special circumstances, the closing date shall not be extended beyond the closing date 
of Loan 3862-VE.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the 
Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining 
unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When CIARA shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall deliver 
to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the Bank.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of CIARA by the 
Director Gerente 
of CIARA 
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that CIARA is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by CIARA from the Grant 
Account only to, or on the order of, CIARA. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$25,000 equivalent; and (c) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to CIARA. 
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at CIARA’ s request and acting as an agent of CIARA, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
Page  5
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, CIARA may open and maintain in U.S 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall or shall cause CIARA to maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
CIARA shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, CIARA shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient and CIARA, suspend the right of the 
CIARA to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) either the Recipient or CIARA has failed to comply with any of its 
obligations herein specified; or (b) CIARA has failed to comply with any or its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement; or (c) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement 
with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development Association 
shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient and CIARA, terminate the right of the 
CIARA to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the 
CIARA to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory 
Page  6
to the Bank, within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the 
Bank has terminated CIARA’ s right to make further withdrawals from the Loan Account for Bank 
Loan 3862-VE; or (d) if the Bank has decided at any time after consultation with the Recipient to 
withdraw its support to the Project. 
Page  7
Attachment I 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000
 
to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
CIARA shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of CIARA, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as CIARA 
shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, CIARA shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals  
 
as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, CIARA shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of CIARA, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as CIARA shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by CIARA out of the Special Account, CIARA shall, at such time 
as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  8
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by CIARA directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if CIARA shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified CIARA of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of CIARA to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to CIARA.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, CIARA shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until CIARA has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, CIARA 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
Page  9
Attachment II  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1.1(b) of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement (tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines) shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
Page  10
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) 
irrespective of the contract amount the terms of reference and terms of employment of all 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  11
WB77786 
M:\VENEZUEL\JGAGrants\736-Agricultural Extension PHRD (revised LMB 26 Nov).doc 
December 2, 2002 11:56 AM
 
