Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
S
Report No. 9583
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
(CREDIT 856-NEP)
MAY 17, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
Thbis document has a restricted diibution and may be used by redpients only In the perfonnmance of
their officfl dutie  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoiZaion.



ABBREVIATION
AADO                  Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN                  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
ADO                   Agricultural Development Officer
AG                    Auditor General
AIC                   Agricultural Input Corporation
BRVPD                 Bihar River Valley Project Department
BSC                   Branch Secondary Canal
CCA                   Cultivable Command Area
DE                    Divisional Engineer
DG                    Director General (DIHM and DOA)
DIHM                  Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
DOA                   Department of Agriculture
EE                    Executive Engineer
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
FAO                   Food and Agriculture Organization (UN)
GM                    General Manager
GOI                   Government of India
HMGN                  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV                   High-Yielding Variety
ICB                   Internat4.onal Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
IEC                   Indian Eastern Canal System
JT                    Junior Technician
JTA                   Junior Technical Assistant
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA                   Ministry of Agriculture
MSC                   Main Secondary Canal
MWR                   Ministry of Water Resources
NEC                   Nepal Eastern Canal
NFC                   Nepal Food Corporation
NZIDB                 Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
NZIDP                 Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
(Stages-I, II and III Areas)
OCC                   Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M                   Operation and Maintenance
PCR                   Project Completion Report
PLAA                  Panchayat-Level Agricultural Assistant
PPAR                  Project Performance Audit Report
RD                    Revenue Department
REC                   Rice Export Corporation
SA                    Special Account
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
SCF                   Standard Conversion Factor
Stage-I Area          NZJDP, Blocks 1 to 6 (16,000 ha)
Stage-II Area         NZIDP, Blocks 7 to 12 (12,700 ha)
Stage-III Area        NZIDP, Blocks 13 to 15 (8,700 ha)
TC                    Tertiary Canal
T&V                   Training and Visit System (of Agricultural Extension)
WUG                   Water Users' Group



FOR OW71CIAL UE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice o MaE ctmw.GeneraI
Opse 4is EvaiuU.
Hay 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: NEPAL - Narayani Zone
Irrigation Development Stage II (Credit 856-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Nepal - Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development State II Project (Credit 856-NEP)" prepared by the
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board and the Asia Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mey not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION EPVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
(Credit 856-NEP)
Table of Contents
Pag. No.
Preface ........................................ 
Basic Data Sheet                           i$1
Evaluation Sumary                                                         v
Overview  l
PROJECT COMPIETION REPORT (prepared by the Borrower)
Summary and Conclusions                                                   9
T. Introduction                            .                          11
II. The Project at Appraisal                                           13
III.  Project Implementation      .                                     17
IV. Agricultural Impact  ...................                           29
V. Economic Evaluation  .              .. . . . .. . . . .. .  . .* . . . ..   31
VI.  Institutional Performance  .      .o.............                 32
VII.  Special Issues and Lessone Learned t    . . . . . .    . . . .    34
VIII.  Bank Performance                     ..              ......... . ......  36
MAPS
IBRD 13527R
IBRD 13537R
IBRD 13648R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
(Credit 856-NEP)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project-Stage II, for which Credit 856-
NEP of US$14 million was approved on November 27, 1978. The Credit Closing
Date was extended three times from December 31, 1983 to December 31, 1986.
The Credit was fully disbursed on Atgust 12, 1987.
The Basic Data Sheet, Project Formulation, Project at Appraisal,
Project Implementation, Project Results, Conclusions and Lessons Learned were
prepared by the Bank. They are based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report; President's Report; the Credit Agreement; and the Borrower's PCR,
prepared by the Narayani Zone Irrigation Project in Nepal. In addition, Bank
supervision mission reports, correspondence with the Borrower and internal
memoranda on project related matters have been consulted.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on January 18, 1991, for comments by
March 8, 1991, but none were received.



- Lit -
NARAYANT ZOE IRRIBBIEATION EELOPMENT STAGE TT PROJECT
(Credit R56-NEP)
RAXIC DATA EHEET=
Kay pront d&ta
Appraisal      Actual or    Actual as % of
FX_4t-nMt-A    Eet- Actual  anr- Zattimate
Project Costs (US$ M.)                  17.0             17.2            101.2
Credit Amount (USS M.)                  14.0             14.0            100.0
Date board approval                  27/11/1978
Date physical component completed  31/12/1982         31/7/1986
Closing Date                         31/12/1983      31/12/1986
Economic rate of return                     22%             162
Institutional performance:         Satisfactory
Agromic performance:               Potentially satisfactory
Number of direct beneficiaries    Potentially 12,600 farm families
Cumulative Diaburagments
78/79  79/RO  AO/Al  L1L8z  R2/83  R3/84  84/85 A8/86
Appraisal (US$ M.)    1.5    5.2    9.4   12.8   14.0    -            -       -
Actual (US$ M.)       0.1    0.4    1.7    4.5    6.2    8.6   10.7   14.0
Actual (%1            7.0    7.0   18.0   35.0   44.0   61.0   76.0  100.0
Date of final disbursement:August 12, 1987
Mission data
Man-days    Specializations   Overall
Mission         Date    Mission Leader  FAr=          infLi±ald    Rarasented_1    Status 2
Identification  3/76          C.M. Bolt
Preparation      3/77         C.M. Bolt
Appraisal       10/77         C.M. Bolt
Supervision 1   1/79      W. Van Tuijl         1          3                  E           1
Supervision 2  10/79      W. Van Tuijl         3          9              E,A,C           1
Supervision 3   4/80      W. Van Tuijl         2          4                E,A           1
Supervision 4  11/80      W. Van Tuijl         1          3                  E           3
Supervision 5   2/81      W. Van Tuijl         1          5                  E           2
Supervision 6   5/81      W. Van Tuijl         2          2                 2E           2
Supervision 7  12/81    E.L.N. Kramer          1          2                  E           2
Supervision 8  11/82          M. Barber        4         12           E,C,A,J            2
Supervision 9   9/83        W.G. Rodger        3         12               2E,C           2
Supervision 10 11/84    E.L.N. Kramer          2          6                 2E           1
Supervision 11  9/85           E. Gazit        2          8                 2E           1
Supervision 12  5/86           E. Gazit        2          8               2E,A           1
1 A - agriculturist; C - economist; E - engineer; and J - legal specialist
4          I  -   4                .         .-     I  -,  S  .   .  . I



- iv -
Other, Pro4eat d
Borrower                            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Executing Agency                    Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
Fiscal Year                         July 16  - July 15
Name of Currency                    Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal year average          US$1.0 - NRa. 12.0
Intervening years average       US$1.0 - NRa. 16.5
Completion year average         US$1.0 - NRs. 21.0
F1LQv-On Project
Name                             Narayani III Irrigation Project
Loan/Credit Number               1715-NEP
Loan Credit Amount (SDR M)       21,6
Date of Board Approval           June 19, 1986
Staff In2uts
#Staff weeks) 1
LENP
LENA         18.7  3.2                                                                     21.9
LENN               4.8                                                                      4.8
LOP           4.4  5.8                                                                     10.2
SPN                4.8  4.0  3.2  1.8  5.5   6.8  10.2 7.5  6.9    .2  1.5             .8  53.2
PCR                                                         2.5               1.0      .7   4.2
PAD                  .3         .0                       .2  .1                              .6
Total        23.1  18.9 4.0  3.2  1.8  5.5   6.8  10.4 10.1 6.9   .2   2.5    1.5  94.9
1   LENP - Lending Pre-appraisal
LENA - Lending Appraisal
LENN - Lending Negotiations
LOP - Loan Processing - General
SPN - Supervision
PCR - Project Completion Report
PAD - Project Administration



- v -
PR&JRZn COrD PLVTON RF.PORT
NPAYANI   NE INFPA MENT - STA   II PROJC'
(CREDIT R56-NEP 
EVALUATION SUNMARY
Introduntion
i.        The Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project-Stage II was intended to
continue the development of the surface irrigation of the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC)
command area together with a small groundwater component. The total project cost
estimated at appraisal was US$17.0 M supported by an IDA Credit of US$14.0 M. The
Credit closing date wa. extended three times and the project was closed on December
31, 1986. The actual project cost was US$17.2 M and the Credit was fully disbursed.
2xgject kbectime
ii.       The Project under review was designed as a time-slice of the NEC
development program. It was to complete the area deleted from Stage I, which was
designated as Stage II. The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the
reliability and amount of water delivered to farms and establish farmers' confidence
in the irrigation system; and (b) accelerate agricultural development and increase
farm incomes as well as rural employment. To achieve the above objectives, the
project was designed to: (a) improve the operational control of the NEC and its
security against damage by floods; (b) expand the area of the irrigation
distribution system capable of delivering regulated supplies to groups of farmers in
blocks (chaks) of 7.5 to 10 ha; (c) improve drainaqe of farms and roads; and (d)
strengthen agricultural extension services and improve the linkage with research and
training. In addition, a pilot tubewell project to irrigate areas above the command
of the main system was included.
lementation Ex_ eriena
iii.      Project implementation was slower than expected at appraisal because of
delays in the main civil works components due to poor performance of the local
competitive bidding (LCB) contractors and shortages of cement, bricks and steel.
All physical works were completed with the exception of: (a) the drainage works
which were abandoned when farmers refused to allow rights of way; and (b) five deep
tubewells and 50 shallow tubewells because farmers would not accept ownership
responsibility.
iv.       The farmer group development component for the surface system, aimed at
setting up effective water user groups responsible for constructing field channels
and field drains mnder the supervision of the project staff, was not successful.
Water supply was limited and uncertain, and farmers had no confidence that the main
system would eventually be ab±e to deliver reliable and predictable water supplies
that would have made the construction of field channels worthwhile.
v.        The project accomplished most of the physical construction works specified
in the SAR but failed to provide any significant irrigation service during the life
of the Credit. The main supply from the Don Branch canal in India proved erratic
and unreliable. The Don Branch failed completely in 1986 due to severe floods in



- vi -
September of 1986; reptirs are now nearing completion. The distribution system
design in Stage I and II was judged, as a result of the limited operations up to the
failure of the Don Canal in 1986, to be very difficult to manage and is being
modified in the current Narayani III projzct, The groundwater facilities were
mostly completed but remain essentially unused because of technical and financing
problems which ciscouraged farmer participation.
vi.       The Project was a time slice of the NEC coimand and should be judged in
this context. The main benefits were expected to come from timely supplementary
irrigation for early planting and insurance against the erratic monsoon during the
kharif, and full irrigation during the rabi. While no irrigation su;pply has been
provided from the Don Canal after September 1986, good rains and watar captured
temporarily from rivers crossing the area have provided a satisfactvry increase in
yields. When the Don Canal is functioning, the project will provide the irrigation
services mentioned above. The economic rate of return (ERR) as recalculated for
this report is 16%. This assumes that the expected water supply is forthcoming from
the Don Canal starting in mid-1990, and the distribution system is modified as
planned under the ongoing Stage III project. Continued operation without
modification of the distribution system would yield an ERR of 14%.
SustAinaMbilty
vii.      The sustainability of the project's surface water component depends on a
reliable water supply from the Don Canal and adequate operation and maintenance
funding. The risk attached to possibly uncertain water supply from the Don Canal
was not adequately addressed during appraisal. The groundwater component was not
completed, but the wells developed have potential future use if the technical and
financial constraints can be properly identified and removed.
Findings~ and LessonsR
viii.     The main findings and lessons are;
(a)   The short- and long-term reliability of the surface water source from
the Don Canal, both in timing and quantity, was not correctly
evaluated at appraisal. The cause of total performance failure was
the flood of August 1986, which cut off the main surface supply from
the Don Branch Canal. Completion of repairs on the canal is
scheduled for June 1990.
*     This experience suggests that under conditions like those which
prevailed in the project, a water right based on international
agreement may be insufficient guarantee of reliable physical
delivery. The operational problems faced in fulfilling the riparian
obligations to supply a guaranteed quantity of water on demand at the
end of a canal 100 km long, *.ith probably hundreds of illegal
offtakes along the way, were not correctly assessed.
(b)   The water management concept on which design of the distribution
system was based has proven difficult to implement and has *-quired
system modifications.
*     The lesson is that operational plans should: be specified and agreed
before system design; provide the basis for system design concepts
and criteria; and be consistent with the physical and institutional
capacity to implement them.
(c)   The causes of technical failure of the deep tubewells in the area
were not adequately investigated during preparation, and high failure
rates led to a lack of confidence among the farmers which blocked the
planned private deep tubewell development. The financing terms



- vii -
offered by the Agricultural Development Bank (ADBN) for shallow
tubewells were not sufficiently attractive.
The failure of the groundwater component indicates that, especially
in cases where farmers' participation is critical, the facilities
must work as expected (i.e., failure rates must be low), and
financing terms must be designed to fit within the farmers' perceived
means. Adequate technical preparation and flexible financial
arrangements adapted to needs of the farmers are therefore essential.
(d)   Kev agricultural extension services deteriorated following transfer
of extension responsibility from the project Board to DOA.
Arrangements for agricultural extension should be included in the
irrigation project until the DOA extension service is strong enough
to provide adequate extensiun support.
(e)   Although explicitly included in the project and supported by Narayani
Zone Irrigation Development Board (NZIDB), efforts to promote farmer
participation in construction of field channels and field drains were
unsuccessful. Farmers had no confidence that the system would
eventually deliver the reliable water supplies which would make such
investments worthwhile.
Farmers must feel assured that the system will deliver water as
provided, and they must see proof that it will do so. This is a
necessary, but not sufficient, condition for effective farmer
participation.



-1-
PR0JECT COMPLET1ON REPORT
NA".'YANI ZQON  IRI  TN DEVELOP TN  - STAGE I! PROJECT
(CREDIT 856-NEP.
1.        The Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Developmer.mt Project (NZIDP), Stage II (Cr 856-NEP) was prepared by the Narayani
Zone Irrigation Development Board assisted by the project consultant. This
overview is intended to supplement the findings of the PCR with IDA's
observations.
Prniant QhPtfvd  and Rati1nal
2.        Secttr Develonment OhiAecives.  Nepal's economy is largely dependent on
the agriculture sector. Farm prWduction and related activities at the time of
appraisal accounted for about 65% of GDP, 93% of employment and 80% of all
exports, mostly foodgrains. Nepal has a gross area of 14.1 H ha of which only
about 2.3 M ha is cultivable. Paddy accounts for 51% of the total cropped area:
maize 19%; wheat and other cereals 16%; and other crops including oilseeds,
pulses, jute, potatoes, su9arcane, tobacco and horticultural crops 14%.
Development of agriculture has been slow. Over the last 12 years (1977-1989),
growth in production had been barely above population growth. Moreover this
growth had come primarily from area expansion, the further scope for which is
limited. The crops which had the largest area increases were wheat (10% p.a.)
and potatoes (5.4% p.a.), mostly in the Terai. Productions of most other crops
stagnated or declined in the same period, reflecting: (a) extension of
cultivation into areas of marginal productivity; (b) soil denudation; (c) the
lack of technology suitably adapted to local conditions, particularly for Hill
agriculture; and (d) institutional constAints such as the lack of trained
manpower. In view of the limited scope for any further area expansion, future
growth in agricultural production was judged to depend essentially on yield
improvement. This was thought to be attainable, particularly in the Terai,
provided there are effective sxtension services, reliable provision of irrigation
and adequate drainage at the farm level.
3.        Trrigation Polinv in Nepal.  Of about 960,000 ha having some form of
irrigation in Nepal, about 750,000 ha or 78% is in the Terai. His Majesty's
Government of Nepal (HMGN) started the modern era of irrigation construction in
the 1920's in the Terai with the assistance of the Government of India (C-0I) as a
part of the water sharing agreements between the two countries. The Terai
schemes were all based on river diversions with design standards used in India at
the time. The concept was to provide extensive irrigation as drought insurance
to kharif crops. The distribution systems were developed only to the 0.6 m3/s
(20 cusec) 1000 ha (2500 ac) block level. Farmers were expected to construct or
their own t.e lower part of the distribution system. In practice, the systems
never served the design service areas satisfactorily. The more recent irrigation
development policy in the Terai for public sector schemes can be summarized as
the upgrading of the old drought insurance schemes to modern standards, and for
areas out of conmand of the old systems supplement the surface water through



-2-
groundwater resources. No plans for conjunctive use of surface and groundwater
were formulated.
4.        prvious IDA Involvement.  The first project undertaken with IDA
assistance was the Birganj Irriga.iort Project (Naryani Zone, Cr 373-NEP, US$ 6.0,
1973). Its objective was to complete and upgrade the irrigation and drainage
sysvem on 28,700 ha of the 37,400 ha of the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) command
area, and to provide groundwater irrigation to 2,700 ha north of the NEC command
area through public tubewell development (the Birganj Groundwater Scheme).
Because of implementation delays and cost overruns, the surface component was
reduced to 16,300 ha in November 1973, designated Stage I, and completed in 1981.
A PPAR dated October 10, 1978 was issued.
eroient Obientives
5.        The Project under review was a time-slice of the NEC development
program. As Stage I had been completed in a reduced form, this Project was to
complete the area deleted from Stage I and was designated Stage II, (Stage III,
Narayani III Irrigation Project followed in 1986). The objectives of the project
were to: (a) improve the reliability and quantity of water delivered to farms and
establieh the farmers' confidence in the irrigation system; and (b) accelerate
agricultural development and increase farm incomes as well as rural employment.
To achieve the above objectives, the project was designed to: (a) improve the
operational control of the NEC and its security against damage by floods; (b)
expand the area of the irrigation distribution system capable of delivering
regulated supplies to groups of farmers ir blocks of 7.5 to 10 ha (chaks); (c)
improve drainage of farms and roads; and (d) strengthen agricultural extension
services and improve the linkage with research and training. In addition, a
pilot tubewell project to irrigate areas above the command of the main system was
included.
Project Appraisal
6.        The project was prepared by the NZIDB with assistance from consultants.
Project appraisal took place in September of 1977.  The prin ''.pal source of water
for the NEC originates in India. An international agreement (1959) permits Nepal
to draw 850 cusecs (24.1 cumecs) upon demand from the tail end of the Don Branch
Canal {a part of the Indian Gandak project serving almost a million ha). In
addition to the supplies from India, minor bazrages on the Tilawe, Sirsia and
Jhanj rivers which cross the NEC command provide supplemental supply to the
project in the kharif and rabi seasons.
P'roject Imp]Mentation
7.        Civil and Buildings.  Construction of planned civil and building works,
the main physical components, was completed. However, it lagged well behind the
original schedule. The main reasons included the poor performance of the LCB
contractors and shortages of cement, bricks and steel. The total project cost
estimated at appraisal was US$17.0 M supported by an IDA credit of US$14.0 M.
The Credit became effective on January 8, 1979. The Credit Closing Date was
extended three times and closed on December 31, 1966. The actual project cost
was US$17.2 M, and the credit was fully disbursed on August 12, 1987.
8.        The NEC Canal and Distribution Network.  Improvement works for NEC
specified at appraisal were completed. In addition, there were substantial
increases in the scope of work in connection with repairs to flood damage and
erosion protection. The irrigation and drainage system was substantially
completed by 1985 (a delay of three years because of the weak performance of the



-3-
LCB contractors). Initial operational experience with the distribution system,
before the Don Canal was breached in 1986 indicated that modifications (costing
US$200-300/ha) were necessary, and these are being implemented in the current
Stage III project. The drainage component was abandoned because the farmers
refused to allow rights of way to be acquired.
9.        W&ter User_ goQU.  Water User Groups (WUGs) were to be formed for each
8-10 ha chak. These groups were to be responsible for constructing field
channels and field drains under the supervision of the project staff. However,
no effective WUGs were formed during the project and only 22 km of field channels
were constructed out of a planned 1,900 km. No field drains were constructed.
The farmers had no confidence that the main system could deliver reliable and
predictable supplies that would have made the construction of field channels or
field drains worthwhile. At the end of the project the NZIDP established a Water
Management Division to organize effective users groups and provide technical
assistance with on-farm works.
10.       Community Tubewells SheAme.  The project included provision for five
deep, privately owned, community tubewells to irrigate about 120 ha each, and 50
shallow tubewells to irrigate about 10 ha each, in the vicinity of the Stage I
pilot groundwater development area where surface irrigation development is not
feasible. The five deep tubewells were deleted in 1982 because the farmers did
not cooperate. Their reluctance was, at least in part, caused by the poor record
of performance of the existing deep tubewells nearby which were operated by HMGN.
An LCB contract for constructing 50 shallow tubewells was let in 1983, but only
25 wells were drilled by the end of 1986. Tenders were called for the pumps and
motors in 1985, but no contract was awarded and no equipment installed. A few
farmers have installed pumps (hand or diesel driven) on some wells, but most are
capped and not in use. Farmers were supposed to take over the tubewells using
ADBN financing, but financing terms were apparently unattractive.
11.       Microhydro Station.  A pilot micro hydroelectric station was included
for the Tilawe Barrage. After a detailed study was made, it was concluded that
the unit was not feasible and the component was dropped.
12.       Agricultural Extension and Training.  Promising results were obtained
in the pilot scheme for agricultural extension based on the T&V system, which was
introduced in Parsa and Bara Districts under Stage I. HMGN decided to extend the
T&V system throughout Nepal under a national extension and training project.
However, as implementation of a national program was expected to take
considerable time, the pilot scheme was to be expanded under this project from
two Districts to six, and cover all the four ongoing IDA assisted irrigation
projects in the Terai. The project included consultancy services, training,
linkages with research, a portion of the staff costs for a four year period,
vehicles, staff quarters, stores, a training center and associated equipment.
13.       In early 1979, HMGN established the Agricultural Division (AD) within
the project headed by a Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO) deputed from the
Department of Agriculture (DOA). Initially, the agricultural extension
activities were hampered by lack of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), frequent
staff transfers, inadequate allocation of budget by HMGN and poor logistic
support. The progress of the agricultural extension component was slow, partly
because of delayed project implementation and construction of the training
center, but also because of DOA's reluctance to provide technical support as long
as the administrative control was with the NZIDB. However, with the appointment
of the SAO in 1980, the AD became a viable and strong unit. All quarters for
junior field extension staff, subcenters for farmer training, and inputs
warehouses were built in three project districts. Extension workers also



-4-
assisted farmers in constructing field channels and drains in the project area
and started organizing the Water User Groups (WUGs). However, this proved to be
extremely difficult because of the uncertainty of water supply.
14.       In mid-1984, HMGN transferred the authority for extension staff from
NZIDB to the Ministry of Agriculture. Work responsibilities were shifted to the
regional directorate of the DOA. Staff on secondment from DOA were trarsferred
to the regional director, and tite employment of staff directly employed by the
Board was terminated.
15.       The extension support to the command area hlas deteriorated since the
project's AD was integrated into the T&V system and operated on a district basis
under a line department of DOA. Under the DOA extension service, one PLAA was
serving over 1,000 farm families, which was inadequate. Under the Stage III
project, this weakness will be partly rectified, as the project authority is to
be provided with key extension staff for maintaining better coordination between
the project management and DOA.
16.       Consultants and Bank Performanca.  In 1976, when the Stage II Project
was prepared and appraised, it was accepted by both the consultants and the Bank
that the water supply, to be provided under the treaty with India, would be
reliable, predictable and ample for the Stage I and II areas, as well as
sufficient for further expansion into the Stage III area. No assessment was made
of how the Indian Gandak project, from whose tail-end water was to be derived,
performed in practice. In fact, the supply actually provided before the Don
Canal failed completely, was unreliable, and NEC on average re eived only about
56% of what was expected. The problem of operation and management of limited,
unreliable supplies should have attracted more attention. The small groundwater
component was included without an adequate technical and financial base. The
root causes for the failure of groundwater development in the area were not
intensively investigated and have still not been identified.
17.       At appraisal, the Bank advocated smaller (8 ha) chaks, (also for India
irrigation projects), assuming that the smaller the chak the easier the
management of the system. This assumption was not adequately tested through
simulations of system operations and it proved to be incorrect. The Bank
supervision concentrated mainly on logistical problems, disbursement, budgeting
and procurement related to physical implementation. The risk that the riparian
country would not be able to fulfill the water treaty obligations was not
adequately assessed, nor was the possibility addressed that the Gandak Project
might not be physically capable of meeting the treaty obligations. Supervision
failed to emphasize sufficiently the increasing difficulties of managing the
system during the brief period when some Don Canal water was available. It
should be noted that during supervision the management difficulties of regulation
down to 8 ha chaks were only beginning to be recognized by the Bank, in Nepal as
well as in other countries in the region.
18.       Roxrrcwer PQrformnnes.  HMGN had difficulty in obtaining competent
contractors, and suffered serious logistical problems involving the national
shortage of most construction materials. There was a reluctance to deal firmly
with inadequate contractor and consultant performance. However, after the
failure of the Don Canal, considerable enterprise was shown in arranging
temporary supplies from some of the small rivers in the project area.
19.       Agricultural PArformance.  The agricultural performance data for the
surface system produced by local consultants show kharif production for 1987,



-5-
after the project was crippled by the 1986 failure of the Don Canal, with no flow
from the main source, comparable with the SAR forecast, reflecting mainly
Lb    favorable monsoon rainfall in the period 1986-87 and capture of temporary water
sources. As may be expected, however, the rabi production was much less. The
groundwater facilities remained essentially unused.
20.       Iate of Return.  This project was a time slice of the NEC command
development and should be viewed in this context. The main benefits of the
project were expected to come from the water supply provided for early planting
and supplementary irrigation during the kharif, and full irrigation during the
rabi. The economic rate of return (ERR) analysis done at appraisal assumed that
the Don Canal would deliver water according to the treaty. However, failure of
the Don Canal has limited the initial impact of the project. If, after repairs
are completed in mid-1990, the Don Canal provides water in accordance with the
treaty, farmers should be able to realize the expected potential. The project
ERR, estimated at appraisal at 21%, has been reestimated for this report at 16%
(the ERR calculated in the Borrowers' PCR was 15%, but did not follow standard
Bank practices). It takes account of the interruption in Don Canal water
supplies between 1986-1990. However, it assumes that expected water supply will
be forthcoming from the Don Canal under the treaty with India, and that the
distribution system will be suitably modified under Stage III; the cost of which
(US$200/ha) was included in the ERR calculation. Continued operation with the
unmodified system would yield an ERR of 14% which is assumed in this report to be
the best present estimate of the project's ERR.
Summary of Principal Flndings
21.       Water Supply to the NEC. Initial achievements of the project have been
severely limited due to disruption of water supplies. However, the investments
will be useful when the Don Canal supplies are restored. The appraisal assumed
that the treaty water rights would be sufficient to guarantee the water supply,
and did not take into account the physical reality of supplying water to the tail
end of a large Indian system with hundreds of illegal outlets. In addition, the
Don Canal passes through the foothills of the Sumasar Range with numerous massive
drainage crossings which are liable to flood damage. The Canal's record of
performance showed erratic and uncertain supply even when it was nominally in
full service. For the years 1980-86 prior to the failure, deliveries amounted to
about 56% of the scheduled volume, and the number of closures averaged 191 days
per year against the scheduled closures of 45 days per year. The flow in
individual weeks sometimes fluctuated widely between 50% and 100% of scheduled
rates. In August 1986, a flood destroyed some of the drainage crossings and no
supply has been given to the head of the NEC since. The repairs are scheduled
for completion in mid-1990.
22.       The Water Management concept.  Following the accepted standards of the
period, Stages I and II were to supply water on demand to 8 ha chaks. Operation
of the project before the Don Canal failed, and experience with similar projects
in India has shown that such systems are very difficult to manage. This has been
rigorously confirmed by work on the National Water Management Project in India,
and an evolutionary development process over the past six years has identified
the parameters of maneageable systems. The NZIDP system is being modified to
comply with these simplified concepts under the current Stage III project. Even
with the simplified system, a management plan designed to cater for the
stochastic nature of the source will have to be very carefully formulated, and
should have been the basis for system design originally.
1 ERR analysis made at PCR preparation is in the Project File.



-6-
23.       Yhm Grnuntsmr re^pnant. As indicated, the groundwat4L component was
abandoned and/or not completed. 'the history of unreliable behavior and failure
of existing tubewells was not sufficiently addressed during project
implementation. About 50% of the wells in the nearby Birganj Tubewell project
have suffered screen collapse. Seeing the failure rate of other Government
tubewells in the area, farmers were unwilling to accept any liability for a
private venture. The unreliability problem is being addressed in more detail in
the Stage III follow-on project. The shallow tubewells also did not attract
farmer participation, mostly because of the high financing costs which were not
adequately analyzed ahead of time.
*essona LAarnad
24.       The main lessons learned are that:
(a)   Treaty water rights do not necessarily guarantee the physical
integrity of the water supply. A critical evaluation of the
reliability of the surface water source should be done during
preparation and appraisal.
(b)   The accepted operational specification of the period, which
required on demand delivery to 8 ha chaks, was inappropriate for
Nepal and proved impossible to implement in practice. Operational
plans should: be fully specified and agreed upon hefore system
design; provide the basis for system design; and be consistent
with physical and institutional capacity to implement them.
(c)   The causes of technical failure of nearby tubewells in the region
should have been investigated. The high failure rates led co a
lack of confidence among the farmers which precluded the planned
private deep tubewell development.
(d)   The experience with the shallow tubewells indicates that the
financial viability of investments should be carefully assessed at
preparation/appraisal, and where justified, financial terms should
be adjusted to make the investments more attractive to farmers.
Components which are not financially attractive should not be
supported, as the farmers are unlikely to be interested.
(e)   Formulation of effective Water User Groups is impossible with an
inadequate and unreliable irrigation supply.
(f)   Under conditions like Nepal's, agricultural extension services
should be included under the irrigation project, until the
respective government department nationwide is proven strong
enough to provide adequate extension support.



1                                ~~~~~~~~~~~-7-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
(Credit 856-NEP)



-9-
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE-II PROJECT
Summary and Conclusion
1.        Narayani Zone Irrigation  Development  Stage-II Project
is  follow-on  project  of  its Stage-I f.nanced by International
Development Association (IDA). It was to develop the remaining
12,700 ha deleted froa the Stage-I project. It also included the
upgrade of irrigation and drainage infrastructure in area of
Stage-I.   In addition,  it proposed to introduce a pilot private
community tubewell scheme. The project was appraised by IDA in
September 1978.   Estimated total cost of the project was US$17 M
and the project was financed by IDA credit of US$14.0 M. The
project  became   effective  on  November  23,  1978'.   Expected
completion date was June 30, 1982, and closing date, December 31,
1983.
2.        Start of  the project  was not  prompt due  to delay of
Siage-I  project  completion.       Progress   of   project  works
particularly for civil and building works was far behind the
schedule committed in the appraisal.   This was  caused mainly by
the poor performance of contractors procured through local
competitive bidding (LCS) contracts and the scarcity of essential
construction materials. A number of additional works proposed in
course of implementation also prolonged the construction period.
Stress of project works were mainly placed on the improvement of
Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC),  construction of  irrigation system iS
surface irrigation areas and buildings. However, achievements of
on-farm facilities including drainage improvement both in surface
and groundwater irrigation area were considerably behind the
appralsed target for the reasons of farmers' reluctancy in
sharing lands for facilities and in participating in self-reliant
constructioa works.
3.        The project  was  virtually  complete  in  the mid-1986
behind the schedule by four years. The total expenditure as of
the mid-1986 was NRs.283.5 M. (US$17.2 M.) against  the appraised
cost of NRs. 204.0 a. at the 1978/79 constant price. IDA credit
was not disbursed in accordance with the initial schedule due to
delay In progress and 10% amount of credit still remained at the
aid-1986. However, the remainder would be fully used for the
unexpected urgent remedial works of NEC severely damaged in 1986
monsoon.
4.        The sain  constralnts to  the operation  of the project
was the erratic water supply from Don canal (India) to NEC. In
spite of the disturbance of the lrrigatlon, however, the cropping
coverage of the main crops in the area, paddy and wheat, has
reached  about  the  objectlve  levels.      While,  institutional
component of the project including formation WUGs, participation
of farmers ln the project management and training has been still
left unsatisfied.   The RRR of the project was re-estimated to be
15X compared with appraisal of 22%



-11-
NEPAL
NARAYAN1 ZONE IRRIGATION DZVELOPMENT STAGE-I1 PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01      The  economy   of   Nepal   predominantly   depends  on
agriculture.     The  agriculture   engages  about   So%  of  the
econoaically active population and share of agriculture sector in
GDP is about 59% in 1984/65. Despite the fact that agriculture
plays a crucial role In the uplift of Nepal economy, productivity
in this sector is most wretched giving low income to the farmers.
In 1960s, production of foodgrains as whole reached from 3.15
aillion tons  to 3.7  aillion tons.   But the production level of
foodgralas in 1970s was stagnant even apart from inevitable
fluctuation due to erratic monsoon climate. Sven during the
period of the Sixth Plan agricultural production was more or less
stagnant.    The  foodgrain  production  per capita has been kept
hardly exceeding 260 kg that is slightly lower than average per
capita consuAption, without leaving room for surplus. Inadequate
Input supplies (especially fertilizers), poor price incentives,
and poor extension services contributed to the such productivity
stagnant in foodgrains, but even more important were the poor
monsoons, since the country relies predominantly on rainfed
agriculture. The annual growth rate of GDP has been largely
affected by  the monsoon  of respective years accordingly.  Thus,
expansion of irrigation under the given cliatic conditions is a
key towards  the stable development of Nepal econoy. and national
welfare.
1.02      Of about 540,000 ha having some  form of  irrigation in
Nepal, about 405,000 ha or 7S% exlts in Terai. The Government of
Nepal (HMGN) started the construction of some irrigation schemes
from  1920s  in  Terai  with  assistance of the Indian Government
(GO) as recompense to Nepal for water rights for much larger
irrigation schomes in India. These were based on river diversion
with adoption of similar  deslgn prevailing  in India.   The idea
was to spread water relatively thinly over the largest possible
area so as to  provide drought  insurance to  kharif crops.   The
distribution system was developed only to the 700-1.000 ha block
level and its downward facilities were exp-eted by farmers
construction.    This  consequently  resulted  in  unsatisfactory
service comaand. In view of favorable conditlons in topography
and natural resources, irrigatlon projects are to fit into
strategy of intensive development of agriculture in Terai which
had a higher productive potential, promised quicker returns. It
is also lss difficult and costly to develop than agriculture in
the  hilly  area.    Incomplete  irrigation  distribution system.
however,  has  been   major   constraints   to   exploiting  high
agricultural potential of Terai.



-12-
1.03      The  first  project  undertaken with IDA assistance was
the Birganj Irrlgation Project  (Narayani  Zone)    (Cr. 313-NEP,
US$6.0, 1973).   Its  objective "as  to coaplete  and upgrade the
irrigation and drainage systen on  28,700  ha  of  the  37,400 ha
commanded by the Nepal Eastern Canal (NBC) and to provide
groundwater Irrigation to 2,700 ha north of the NEC command area
through public tubewell developnent (the Birganj Groundwater
Scheme). Because of implomentatIon delay and thus considerable
cost overruns,  the surface component was rduced to 16,300 ha in
November 1973, which was designed Stage-1. The reduced project
was completed In 1981.
Formulation
1.04      The IDA's  contlnued participatlon In the Narayani Zon-a
(Blrganj) Irrigatlon Development Project (NZIDP) was to develop
the remainlng  12,700 ha  deleted from the original project.  The
project called Stage-I project, however, Included the upgrade of
irrlgatlon and drainage infrastructure in area of Stage-L as a
result of experience gained from implementing and operating the
Stage-1. It also proposed to Introduce a pilot private community
tubewell scheme aimed at rellving the strain on public funds for
irrigation  development.    In  addition,  the  pilot  scheme for
intensifying agrlcultural extension services started in two
Districts under Stage-I was to be expanded to cover six Districts
and funded under the project. The project consultants for Stage-
I (Nippon Eoei) assisted HEMGN in preparation of the engineering
component of the project.
Identification. Preparation and Appraisal
1.06      Project appraisal took place in September 1977.  During
appraisal the causes of the previous cost overrun and the
available implementation capacity were reviewed in particular to
deteraine an optlal design for the project, with the requisite
organizatAon of agricultural extension and training components,
.better cost estimates and a realistic construction period.
Finally it was agreed that HMGN: (a) established and maintained
adequate accounts; (b) delivered water on a regular basis to e.ach
tertiary canal command when Water Users' Groups (WUGs) be formed
and field channel be constructed; (c) prepared a comprehensive
OhM manual; (d) provided the NZIDP with adequate staffing; (e)
prepared two comprehensive evaluation studies of the project and
project completion report (PCR); (f) started to collect water
charges within one year after completion of the work in each
irrigation block; and (g) constructed irrigation distribution
channels, transmission lines and access tracks for private
comaunity tubowell scheme free of cost to farmers.   It  was also
agreed that EOMN recruited a firm of engineering consultants
includlng employment of qualified agricultural consultant for
extension and  training.   IDA agreed  to disburse credit for the
community tubewell scheme subject to financial arrangements made
between HMGN and Agricultural Development Bank ot Nepal (ADBN).
Negotiations for credit were held in Washlngton in  ....... 1978.
It was presented to the board on ......... 1978 and approved.



-13-
II. THE PROJECT AT APPRAISAL
The Project Area
2.01      The  Project  extends  along  the NEC from Pipra to the
8agmati river (Map IERD 19549) and includes a part of its command
area, covering about 12,100 ha, between Blrganj to the west and
the Arwa river to the east, and bound by the NEC to the north and
the Nepal-Indian  border to  the south.   In  addltion, a private
community tubewell scheme covering about 800 ha between Birganj
and Slar& (Map I^RD) are Involved In the Project. There are
about 216,000 Inhabitants in the NEC command area of which about
69,300 live in Stage-Ir area. The total number of household in
Stage-Il area is about 12,600. with an average family size of
5.5.    Para  households  account  for about 85X of the total, of
which lese than 10% are landless. The largest and most urbanized
area is Birganj whtch has a population about 60,000. The average
farm size of the NEC command area is  1.1 ha.   About  64% of the
holdings below 1.0 ha account for only 28X of the cultivated
area. The area is under relatively intensive cultivation based
on staple food crops. Main crops are paddy, wheat and sugarcane.
Cropping intensity Is about 160% of which paddy occupies 90X of
the area during the wet season.
Project Objective*
2.02      The objectives  of the Project were to: (a) improve the
reliabillty and amount of water deliveries to farms and establish
farmers' confidence in the irrigation system; and (b) accelerate
agricultural development and increase farm incomes as well as
rural employment.   To  achieve the above objectives, the p&jject
was deolgnod to: (a) improve the operational control of the NEC
as its security againt damage by floods; (b) expand the area of
the  irrigation  distribution   systez   capable   of  delivering
regulated water supplies to groups of farms of 7.5 to 10 ha; (c)
Improve  dralnage  of  farms   and  roads;   and  (d)  strengthen
agricultural extension services and improve the linkage with
research and training.
Project Description
2.03      The main components of the project were:
(a)  construction  of  additional  structures  for  improved
water   supply   control,   cross-drainage, protection
against floods along about 52 km of the NEC between
Birganj and the Bagmati river, and improvement of the
NEC  service  road  (about  79  km)  between  Pipra and
Bagmati river;
(b)  construction   of   the   irrigation  distribution  and
drainage systems down to farm level and canal service
roads In about 12,700 ha of the NEC '.omaand between
Birganj and the Arwa river;



-14-
(c)  upgradlng  of  surface  drainage   systoms,  irrigation
facilitls and canal service roads in about 16,000 ha
of the NBC coaaand between Pipra and Birganj;
(d)  installatlon of about 25 tubewell and pumps, irrigation
channels,  access   roads  and   suppoet  to  ADBN  for
providiAg loans for an 800 ha pilot, privately-owned
communlty tubewell scheme;
(e)  construction   and   operation   of  field  trials  for
waterlogging  control,  low  cost  roads,  and  a pilot
mtcro-hydroelectric station;
(f)  provisioa   of   intensified   agricultural   extension
services, including adequate staff, for six Districts
In the T-rai (Rupanddhi, Parsa, Rautahat, Sunsari and
Morang);
(g) provision of training for engineering, agricultural and
adminIstrative staff;
(h) provlsion of engineering operation and maintenance
equipment with vehicles for agricultural extension
services, spare parts and training equipment;
,') construction of bulldings for project agricultural and
engineering operation and training, staff housing and
agricultural storage; and
(j) provision of technical services, including project
consultants, air photography and mapping for further
development of the NBC command area.
Cost Estlate
2.04      Total project  cost  was  estimated  at US17T M with a
foreign exchange component of US$9.0 M or 54X of the total as
follows:
Items               Local    Foreign    Total
Exchange
Civil works and buildings       4.4       3.1        7.5
Equipment and vehicles           -        2.8        2.8
Technical services              0.2       0.9        1.1
Establishment                   0.9       0.3        1.2
Contlngencles                   1.7       2.1        3.8
Land acqulistlon                0.5        -         0.5
Taxes ad duties                 0.1        -         0.1
Total project cost              7.8       9.2        17.0



-15-
Financing
2.05      The IDA  credit of  US$14.0 M equivalent was to finance
the full foreign exchange cost of the project (USS9.2 M) and
about 62% of local costs, or about 82% of total project costs.
HMGN was to contribute most of the remainder, with ADBN and
farmers providing US$0.1 M and US$0.3 M, respectively. The cost
of community tubuwell scheme to the farmers excluding costs for
irrigation dlstrlbution channels, transmission lines and access
tracks was estimated to be about USS0.2 M including price
contingencies. These cost was to be financed by the farmers, and
each obtained a loan from ADBN proportional to his size of
holding under the command of a tubewell. The IDA credit was
expected to be disbursed by December 31, 1983. about one and halr
(1.5) years after project completion.
Procurement
2.06      All  civil  engineering  contracts  were to be on Local
Competitive Biddlng (LCB) contract basis because of several small
contracts which might not attract large foreign contractors. All
engineering buildings were to be constructed by LCB contra^ts
under   the   supervision   of   project  staff.    In  addition,
agricultural extension buildings in the six Districts were to be
carried out by LCB contract under the supervision of engineering
staff of the three IDA-assisted irrigation projects; NZIDP Stage-
II Project, Shairawa-Luabini Groundwater Project and Sunsari-
Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project.
2.07      Equipment and vehicles for  construction, operation and
malatenance were to be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), contracts.    The  project  were  also  to procure
equipment and vehicles requlred for the agricultural extension.
services in the six Districts through  ICB contract.   A  firm of
engineering consultants was to be employed under the procurement
guideline of IDA.   Agricultural  consultants  for  extension and
training were also to be recruited to the project by NZIDP.
Implementation and Organization
2.08      The project  was to  be implemented  for three and half
(3.5) years from January 1979  to  June   982.    The engineering
preparations had been sufficiently advanced at the tiae of Bank's
Appraisal to peramt start the construction works promptly after
the effectiveness of credit agreement. The iaplementation of the
project   was   responsibility   of   Narayani   Zone  Irrigation
Development Board (NZIDB), whlch was a seum-autonomous agency
based  in  Kathmandu  composed  with  members   represented  from
Ministries of Finance, Water and Power and Land Reform, the
Planning Commission, the Department of Agriculture (DA), the
Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHm),
Regional Directorates of DIEH and DA. The chairman of NZIDB was
the Secretary to the Government's Mianstry of Food, Agriculture
and Irrigation and the General Manager (GM) of the NZITIP acted as



-16-
the secretary to the NZIDB.
Benefits and Justification
2.09      It was anticipated that at full development (1988), the
annual productlon increase duz to the project was estimated at
20,200 tons of foodgrains, 14,800 tons of sugarcane, 300 tons of
oilseeds and 4,300 tons  of vegetables.   Farm  employment was to
increase by about 1,000 man-years at full development. The
project was also to generate about 1.7 M man-days of construction
employment  during  the  construction  period.    The project was
justified feasible and its econouic rate of return (ERR) was 22%



-17-
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General
3.01      The  Development  Credit  Agre*eent for the project was
signed between HMGN  and  IDA  on  November  27,  1978.    It wa*.
expected that the project would start Immediately after the
agreement, but actually from the middle of 1979 due to delay of
Stage-I Project completion. Progress an civil and building works
as the major components of the project was considerably behind
the schedule  committed in  the appraisal.   The a&in reasons for
slow constructlon were the poor performance of contractors
procured through LCS contracts and the scarcity of essential
construction materials such as  bricks,  cement  and  steel.   In
addition, it was proposed in course of implementation to carry
out a number of additional work to respective project components
for the proper water management. This consequently resulted in
cost over-run and  delay  in  construction  works.    Disburse of
credit was extended three times and finaUv, to December 1986.
The project construction virtually completed by the end of 1986.
Physical Works
3.02      Improvement of NEC:  The lmprovesent works of  NEC were
to  include:   (a)  construction   of  13  additional  regulating
structures to control flows throughout 52 km long of the NEC
commanding Stage-I1 area and the Tall area (to be named Stage-
1II); (b) strengthening of 10 km long embankment on the  NEC left
bank; (c) provision of ten additional dralnage inlets aad
culverts to prevent breaches and ensuring canal closures; (d)
construction  of   three  oscape  and  conveyance  channels;  (e)
construction of gravel metalling with an 3.5 a wide on the right
bank of the NEC for 52 km long up to the tail; (f) provision of
six cart/foot bridges with access road linking with villages; and
(g)  construction  of  an  8  km  long  flood enbankment near the
Sagmati river to prevent recurronce of damage caused by monsoon
flooding. Further to the above committed works in the appraisal,
various improvements to existing structures throughout the entire
reaches of the NEC were added to the project works. Most of the
works committed In the appraisal were completed by the year of
1982/83.
3.03      Additlonal works  to improvement to NEC are those added
to committed in appraisal including strengthening of left bank
from 10 km to 57 km, installation of drainage inlets and culverts
from 10 nos. to 17 nos., gravel metalling on right bank from 52
km to 72 km and cart/foot brldges with access roads from 6 nos.
to 10 nos. (Table 1). Further additional works were mainly river
training works adjacent to NEC such as aria and Bheda, down-
stream protection of NEC structures and miscellaneous restoration
to canal structures. The constructloan of telephone line of 16 kk
long from 59 kaRD to  76  kmRD  was  also  included.   The total
expenditure for this component as of ending flscal year 1985/86
was NRs.6S.6 N against appraised cost of NRs.22.3 M at 1978/79



-18-
constazat price.   The  annual  progress  of  the  works including
additional works in terms of annual expenditure in percentage was
as follows:
18/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/861 Total
(1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)   (7)   ,8)
Appralsal
target     14.3  35.7  42.9   7.1         -         -     -    100.0
Actual
achievement 0.0   5.4  16.6  32.7  S8.3   63.2  57.0  61.0  294.2
The higher cost is attributed to increase of work items as well
as increase of labor cost and prlce of major construction
aaterials.
3.04      Development   of   Irrigation   System   and   Drainage
Improvement. This consists of two components in appraisal, one
is the development of irrlgatlon system and the other drainage
improvc-ment. The works for development of Irrigation system were
to lnclude: (a) iprovenent of secondary canals of about 40 km
long branched off from the NEC and commanding respective six
Blocks under the Stage-I1 area (12,700 ha), mainly by the
addition of control structures; (b) extension of distribution
canals (main and branch secondary canals and tertiary canals)
amounting to about 360 km to serve groups of farms covering 7.5
to 10 ha for the entire Stage-I1 area; (c) provision of about
6,500 control structures on these distributlon channels; and (d)
construction  of   service  roads  of  about  360  km  along  the
distribution channels. In addition, structural iaprovements were
to be made throughout the Stage-I area (16,000 ha). which
Included provision of improved water level control at NEC,
additional erosio, control at regulating structures, improvement
ot tertiary cana. turnouts to eliminate leakage. strengthening of
service roads and repair of some damaged structures of the Tilawe
supplementary system in Blocks 5 and 6.
3.05      The works for dralnage improvements were to include the
construction of about 250 km dralns with about 2,000 structures
throughout  the  Stage-II  area   (12,700  ha).        In  addition,
additional drainage control structures and culverts were to be
constru*ted  In  the  Stage-I  comand  area  of  16,000   ha  as
necessary..
3.06      Th-  construction  of  irrigation system for six Blocks
(12,700 ha from 7 to 12) In Stage-I1. area started from the year
of 1918/79, but Its progress was so slow that facilities
completed by the target year of ending 1981/82 were those
covering only about 0S of area (6,240 ha). The main cause of
slow progress was poor performance of local contractors procured
through  LCB  concracts.    The construction was delayed by three
years and flnally completed in 1984/85. The developuent progress
of irrigatlon system was as follows (progress of respective



-19-
Blocks in Table 4):
78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85
--------- (Accumulatee ha)-- ------------
Appraisal
target      2,240  6,460 10,690 12,70Q    -         -      -
Actual
achievement   810  2,380  4,460  6,240  8,130 10,990 12,700
(M)         (6.4) (18.7) (35.1) (49.1) (64.0) (86.5)  (100)
The quantities of structural construction were modified from
those committed in the appraisal based on the detailed project
review made ln 1982, 1983 and 1985. These were relatively behind
the proposed number in the appraisal such as isprovement of
secondary canals from 40 km to 35 ku, extension of distribution
channel from 360 km to 299 km, construction of control structures
from 6,500 non. to 1,816 nos. and provision of service roads from
360 km to 264 km (Table 1).
3.07      In  Stage-I  from  Blocks  1 to 6, about 800 additional
structures on canals and roads and a number of improvements to
existing structures were also proposed for construction in the
detailed project review in 1982, 1983 and 1985 in accordance with
concepts of  appraisal report.   Most  structures and improvement
works were completed by 1985/86 (Table  4).   The construction of
drainage canals and those contrvol structures were to be carried
out  concurrently  with  the  4Avalopment  of  irrigation system.
However, there have been virtuw3ly no achievement, progress less
than 0l of proposed provisio& in appraisal, due to farmers'
resistance to acquire the right of way for canals and structures.
The achievement of drainage devw opment was only 19  km drains in
total against the 1,900 km rroposed and 136 nos. structures
against 2,000 nos (Table 1).
3.08      The annual progress of  -ihe  Development  of Irrigation
System and Drainage Improvement Inc-luding additional works raised
during the implementation period tn terms of annual expenditure
in percentage was as follows:
78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 TotaL
(1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)   (7)   (8)
Appraisal
target     17.6  33.3  33.3  15.7    -       -     -      -   100.0
Actual
Achievement 4.5   8.5  11.2   9.9  16.3  23.1  27.9  14.7  116.1
The total expenditure for this component as of ending fiscal year
1985/86 was NRs.59.9 M against appraised  cost was  NRs.51.6 M at
1978/79 price.



-20-
3.09      Farm Group  Development:  In continuation of successt.l
On-farm Development in the Stage-I area (16,000 ha for Blocks 1-
6). flold channels from tertiary outlets, as well as drains, were
to be Installed by the cooperative action of local labor under
the supervislon  of project  staff.  However, the construction of
field channels and drains was extremely slow and there was
virtually nothlng  in achievement.   Fiold channels of only about
22 km In total. 17 km and 6 3m ln Block-? and Block-8
respectively were constructed against 1,900 km by the end of
19S5/86 and no constructlon was done for field drains (Table 1).
Thl was caused by slower convince of farmers in accepting the
need of  field Irrigation  system.   They were  also reluctant to
yield any patches of their lands for construction of field
channels and drains. To encourage the on-farm Development of the
project, NZIDP  established a  Water Management  Division in mid-
1985 to organixe effective Water Users' Groups (WUGs) and assist
them in Implementing the construction of field channels. The
prlnciple   of   on-farm   facilities   construction   should  be
cooperative action by the participating farmers. if the farmers,
group continuously fails to conduct such facillties, however, the
work would be done by the project and the farmers would be called
upon to repay project authority the full cost as due unpaid of
the land  revenue.  No expendlture took place for this component
so far despite of NRs.4.8 N being allotted In the appraisal cost
estimate which were to be used for the Pilot Works of Farm Group
Development.
3.10      Communlty Tubewells Scheme:   To reduce  the investment
burden on ENGN for groundwater development, the project was to
Install up to 5 deop, privately owand community tubewells to
Irrigate about 120 ha (about 40 to 80 farms) each, and 20 or more
similar shallow tubwells to irrigate about 10 ha (4 to a farms)
each,  in   the  vicinity   of  the   Stage-I  groundwater  pilot
development area where surfaae irrlgation development was no
feasible.   The scheme  was to  explore and  develop the farmers'
capabllty   to   finance   and   operate   irrigation  tubewells
theaselves, with some assistance from ADBN and the project staff.
The maln features of both tubewells proposed in appraisal were as
follows:
Deep Tubewell       Shallow Tubewell
Type and diameter Steel cased 25 cm dia. Steel cased 10 cm dia.
Depth                     about 150 m            about  30 a
Expected dlscharge         80 llt/sec             10 lit/sec
Power (electric)             40 kw                 2.5 kw
Regulatlag pond            2,000 cum
A puaphouse with necessary accessories was to be provided at each
well, as  well as  all irrigatloan  and dralnage  structures.  The
field channels were to be constructed by cooperative action of
labor under the supervisloan of project staff.
3.11      The action for Community  Tubewell  Scheme was delayed
three years behind the appraisal target. The development of deep



-21-
tubowells  were  excluded  from  this  scheme  in  1982   due  to
dlfficulty  In  arousing  interest  from  farmers  to finance and
operate  deep  tubewells  largely  be  themselves.    Such  their
reluctancy wms mainly caused by un-satisfied achievoeent of a rew
deep tubw_lls Installed and operated  by  the  Government.   The
project designed 50 shallow tubewells based on the results of
deep tubewell  scheme tnder  the Sirganj  Irrlgation Project (IDA
Credit 373).   A  tender of  rCB contract for drilling 50 shallow
tubowells was made In 1982 and a Nepalese contractor was awardod
in 1983 after repeated tenders. However, thls contractor failed
in performing the work  and the  project terminated  the contract
without gettlng  any successful  drilling at  all.  To review and
sodify  if  any  of  the  first  design  based  on  deep tubewell
concepts, the project consultant (Nippon Koei) studied the
shallow tubewell for an area of 20,000 ha in Kalaiya (12,000 ha)
and Siara  (8,000 ha).   The field investigation and testing were
also made. Meanwhile, the project called tender for 65 shallow
tubewells (15 tubwells added) on ICE contract basis and two
contractors were awarded. They started the drilling from 1983/84
and  completed  lt  by  the  end  of  1986.    Pump  houses  were
constructed  separately  from  the   drilling   works   by  local
contracts, starting from 1985, but its progress was so slow that
only 25 pump houses were build  by  the  end  of  19as/86.   With
regard to  the electrical  and mechanical  works, no progress was
obtained after two tenders we made in 1985.  A few farmers have
Installed pumps (hand or diesel engine driven) on these wells,
but most are capped and not  in use.   The  progress of Coamunity
Tubewell Scheoe in teras of annual expenditure in percentage was
as follows.
s8/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 Total
(1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)   (7)   (8)
Appraisal
target       -    33.3  66.T   -      -     -     -     -   100.0
Actual
achievement  -     -     -      -     -     -   1.2.8  13.9 116.7
The total expenditure for  this scheme  as of ending fiscal year
1985/86 was NRs.4.2 M against appraised cost of NRs.3.6 M at
1978/79 constant price.
3.12      fu.ldlngs and  Facilities:   The project  was to bulld:
(a) eight low-cost irrigation sub-centers including offices,
stores and hous.Ing. laboratory and a workshop; (b) 30 sub-
training  centers   and  about   120  quarters  for  agricultural
extension services in the six Districts (IDA-assisted irrigation
projects in the Terai for Parsa, Sara, Rautahat. Rupandehi,
Sunsari and Morang Districts); and (c) six storage facilities of
50 to 100 tons capacity for agricultural inputs. In addition,
telephone line along NeC was to be extended by 17 km from 62 kmRD
to its tail.



-22-
3.13      Instead  of  eight  irrigation  sub-centers proposed in
appraisal, the project intended to construct 12 O&M bulldings in
Black-I through Block-12. 12 gate operator's houses along NEC and
sone improvements of two camps at Tilawe and Lal Bakeya.   Except
four OaM bulldlngs in Blocks-1, 2, 5 and 6 which were cancelled
to construct, all the buildlngs were constructed from 1979/80 to
1986/8?.    light  agricultural  tralnng  centers in the project
commanding area (flve in Sara DIstrict, two In Parsa District and
one in Rautahat District) and 56 quarters in total in three
Districts were to be constructed  by  the  project.    Except two
training centers of whlch constructlon have been suspended due to
local adainistrative troubles, six center buildings and 48
quarters were completed by mid-1986. In addition, additional
buildings  in   Parawanipur   Agricultural   Station   were  also
constructed  under  the  project  in  1983.  Construction of six
storage facilitles called "Grain Store' was started In 1979;80
and continued with very slow progress until the mid-1986. Two
grain  stores   In  Blocks-IO   and  11   are  still  incomplete.
Additional telephone line was constructed during a period of
1982/83  to  1983/84.    However,  all  the  line  including that
constructed under Stage-I project from intake to 62 kaRD of NEC
was entirely stolen in a year after coupletion. No communication
facilities are now availablo along N8C. The annual progress of
works excludlng telephone line extension in terms of annual
expenditure in percentage was as followst
78/19 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 Total
(1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)   (7)   (8)
(X)
Appraisal
target      28.6  ST.1  14.3    -                             100.0
Actual
achievement   -   47.9  32.9    -   87T.   26.0  52.1  24.7  271.3
The  total  expenditure  for  buildings  as of ending 1985/86 was
NRt 19.8 N only for Narayani Stage-I project against appraised
cost of NRs.8.4 M including that for Bhairawa-Lumbini Project of
NRs.1.1 M  at  1978/79  constant  price.    The  higher  cost is
attributed to increase of building number as well as increase or
labor cost and price of building materials.
Procurement of Equipment and Vehicles.
3.14      The project  was  to  provide  equipment,  vehicles and
spare parts needed for supplement those procured under Stage-I:
(a)  for  survey  and   supervision  of   construction  including
materials testing; (b) ror operation and effective maintenance of
the works including canal telecommunication facilities; (c) for
agricultural extenasion and tralinng; and (d) for technical
services as well as workshop equipaent for maintenance and
repalr.    Procurement  was  delayed about three years behind the
schedule proposed In appraisal  and  started  from  19al/82.   It
completed by 1984/85 and expenditure progress In percentage was



-23-
as follows:
78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 Total
(1)   (2)   (3)   (4)   (5)   (6)   (7)   (d)
- f-_ _)--------           - ----------------------
Appraisal
target     32.1  32.1  21.4  14.4    -       -      -     -   100.0
Actual
achievement  -      -     -   73.8   3.6   25.9  23.5   -   126.8
The total expenditure for equipment and  vehicles was  NRs.42.6 M
including   a   drilling   rig   procured   for  Shairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater  Development   Project  against   appraised  cost  of
NRs.33.6 M at 19T8/79 constant price. The list of equipaent and
vehicles procured is given in Table 5.
Special Studies Undertaken
3.15      Waterlogging:  It  was   proposed   to   monitor   the
fluctuation of groundwater table in low-lying areas of NEC
command to provide early warning of any hazard caused by
waterlogging. For this, about 70 small observation pipes were to
be installed at selected sites in the irrigated area and
observation groundwater level was to be done. In addition, to
test the draw-down effects on high watertables for the control of
waterlogging, five deep tubwells and 20 shallow tubewells were
to be installed in this area. Tubewells wore to be operated by
electric motor and water was to be discharged into the NEC
system. 50 existing wells for observation of groundwater level
installed in 1977 were used for this purpose and monitored till
1982. However, no  effects on  waterlogging were  found and this
study item as well as construction of deep and shallow tubewells
were deleted from the project in 1982.
3.16      Soil  Stabilization  Trials:       The  project   was  to
investigate the  feasibility of  using hydrated lime to stabilize
and  strengthen  compacted  soils  in  canal  service  roads  and
tertiary  canals.    Laboratory  trials  to test strength of soil
mixed with lime were done in 1981 with assistance of the project
consultant  (Nippon  Koei).    However, results obtained from the
laboratory tests were not satisfactory to introduce hydrated lime
stabilizatloan lnto the project and lime available was of a poor
quality. This was deleted from the project accordingly.
3.17      Micro-hydroelectrlc Development:   It  was  proposed to
construct a pilot micro-hydroelectric station at the Tilawe
barrage, alaing at help for rural electrification and groundwater
development  and   also  possibly   for  small  scale  fertilizer
production. A feasibility study rade by the project consultant
(Nippon Moai) In April 19T9 concluded, however, that the micro-
hydroelectrlc development at the Tilawe barrage was not feasible
for the resons: (a) power rate of the Tilawe alcro hydro-
electric  development  was  the   hlghest  compared   with  other



-24-
alternate diesel plant and extension of a 11 kv transmission line
froa the central Nepal power supply system; (b) poor quality of
power; and (c) shortage of river flow of Tilawe available. This
proposal was deleted from the project coaponents in 1982.
Preparation for Stage-III Project
3.18      Aerial Photography and Mapping:  In  the tall  reach of
the NEC command, an area of about 10,000 ha remained to be
covered by aerial photography and 1:5,000  scale maps.   Prior to
commencement of its development under a future project (Stage-III
Project), provision was made for this survey work under the
Stage-I project. The work was to be done in the year of 1984/81
in appraisal target but actually carried out in 1983/84. It was
done by a UK's survey company (Hunting Survey Ltd.) and cost
expenditure was NRs.4.2 M against appraised cost of NRs.1.8 M at
1978/79 constant price.
3.19     ftasibility Study:   Expected commd area of Stage-III
project was about 8,700 ha and located in the Rautahat District
along the  tail reach  of NEC.   The  agricultural development in
Stage-ITI project was to raise the production level of paddy,
wh&at, sugar   cane  and   other  vegetables  through  perennial
irrigation, intensive use of lnputs and the organization of
marketing  outlets.    This ltograted section would result in a
increase in production of  28,000 tons  foodgrains.   The project
works was to include further improvement of NEC, provision of
irrigation and drainage facilities, flood protection works and
on-farm structures, construction of buildiags and procurement of
equlpment.  The  project  consultant  (Nippon Koei)  prepared a
fealsbillty report in 1984, giving a falrly high ERR of 23.3X.
This study report was updated by in 1986 for proceoding with the
implemetatlon.
3.20      Detailed Design:   In  successlon of  IDA appraisal for
Stage-III project made in November/December 1985, the project
advanced the detailed design from the end of 1985. The project
consultant (Nippon Koei) was appointed for the detailed design
work. The design consisted of improvement of NEC, irrigation and
drainage system in Blocks-13 to 15, flood protection and river
training,  improvement  of  service  roads and restoration of the
Tilawe  barrage.      In  addition,   upgrading   of  irrigation
distribution network in Stages-I and rr areas (28,700 ha) was
also added to the project component  of Stage-III pro,ect.  This
improveents to exlsting system would cover rehabilitation of
control structures to be ungated on major dlstribution channels
In each Black and provision of ungated outlets on tertiary canals
commanding about 30 ha unlt area.  Purther outlets for  serving 4
ha sub-unlt area are also constructed and thus the project would
introduce a realistic rotational irrlgation system under the new
water  management  concepts.    Except the deslgn of upgrading of
Stages-I and II, all the detalled deslgn includlg preparation of
tender drawings was completed by the mid-1986.



-25-
Design Standards and Quality of Works
3.21      Most deslgn  standards had  been established during the
iapleaentation of Stage-I and there was no substantial changes in
it.   Unit disecarges of distribution channels were taken at 0.75
lit/sec/ha for main and secondary canals commanding Blocks and at
1.5 lit/sec/ha for tertiary canals. Average command area served
by a tertiary canal in Stage-II was 33 ha which was little bit
improved froa Stag-I of 36 ha. Deslgn discharge of drainage
canal was 2.5 lit/sec/ha estimated by water balance calculation
in an unit area of paddy field. Drainage canal can accommodate
up to 3.1 lit/s.c/ha using free board and this appears to be
quite adequate where drainage network be successfully provided.
Thickness  of  gravel metalling  on  service   roads  along  NEC
increased by 10 cm from 20 cm to 30 ca. Service road paved in
Stage-I was strengthened accordingly.
Construction Standards and Quality Control
3.22      The structures for the  irrigation,  drainage  and road
works were mostly designed in brick except precast flume applied
to  groundwater  scheme   area   and   standard   concrete  pipes
extensively  used  for  crossing  structures. Brick structure is
appreciated in saving ceoant which was often in short supply and
easy construction without large scale plant, but the quality of
the bricks zanufactured in local kilns was very poor. Quality
control of the works was also difficult because many small works
were scattered over a largo area. In addition,, local contractors
lacked always  operation fund, reasonable number of construction
equipment and sufficient supervisory staff, which resulted often
in termination of contracts due to extremely slow progress.
Continuous construction supervlsion by project staff at site was
available under guidance of project consultant and reasonable
quality control and field test were regularly carried out before
payment to  contractors.   It has been proved that recent cost of
brick structure was higher than that of concrete structure
depending  upon   the  cement  quantity  mixed  within  allowable
strength, and quality of bricks locally available have not been
improved.   It is  recommended to  use precast concrete structure
extenslvely in Stage-III project.
Consultants
3.23      In continuation of Stage-I Nippon Keel was appointed as
the  project  consultant  for  Stage-1I  project.    The Contract
between NZZDB and Nippon Koel was ade oan December 14,1978 as a
form of amedmet of original contract for Stage-I.  The Contract
was amended three tles in 1982, 1986 and 1986 respectively due
to extension of implementation period and detail deslgn of Stage-
III project. 162 M/M was used by the uld-1986. Of these, 35 M/M
was usd for Stage-! project (CredIt 373) due to delay of its
construction works and 45 M/M ws used  for  detall design for
Stage-III In 1985/86.  The task of consultant was to provide: (a)
In-sevvice training, advice and guidance to project engineering



-26-
staff in project planning and scheduling; (b) design of works;
(c) preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation; (d)
modern construction techniques; (.)J construction quality control;
arAd (f) sonitoring of progress and costs.   The consultants input
for Stage-II project was so small compared with 400 M/M used for
Stage-I because project staff became considerably to manage the
engineering works.   The services provided by the consultant have
generally been satisfactory. With regard to consulting services
for ltensified agricultural extension and training in the six
Districts, recruitment of agricultural extension and training
consultants,  which   was  proposed   in  appraisal  report,  was
cancelled as HMGN concerned organization performed satisfactory
ih this context.
Other Issues
3.24     Iprovement  Works  for  Birganj  Tubewells:    A pilot
public groundwater development project, consisting of 28 tubewell
systems and associated power supply system was implemented under
the Birganj Irrigation Project (Credit  373).    At  the  time of
appraisal of the Stage-l project in Septeaber 1977, the tubewell
systems were performing extresely well. Hfowever, by March 1982,
the performance of the tubewell systems found to be deteriorated
drastically  due   mainly  to   O&M  problems.   An  element  for
rehabilitation and iaprovement of the 0&H of the Birganj tubewell
systems  wa3   therefore  included   under  the  Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project Stage-II (Credit 1316) with an estimated
total cost of about  NRs. 14.5  M.   The work  consisted of civil
works  including   provision  of  buildlngs  and  mechanical  and
electrical works. The improvement works started from 1984/84 and
most of  civil work3  have been  completed by the mid-l'86 except
some  alnor  items.    However,  progress  so  far   obtained  of
mechanlcal and electrical works was as slow as only 40X and these
works have been suspended since July 1985.
3.25      Urgent Remedial Works of NEC: On September  13 and 14,
1986 extremely heavy rain, about 530 mm for ten hours, at the
upper reaches of NEC caused severe damage to the NEC structures
on its upper part of about 19 km long. Two large syphons (Sikta
and Uriya) were covered with mud and water though there were no
structural damages. Many protective structures for canal against
flood were seriously damaged and wash-out of embankment by over-
top of flood at several parts were also taken place. NZIDP took
ilsediate remedial action. IDA agreed with NZIDP to shift credit
fund   to   urgent   remedial   works   of  NBC  from  those  for
*lectrification of shallow tubewells in Simra, which would be
deleted from Stage-Il project, and additionally for redrilling of
the *ight deep tubewells (or part of them) under Shairawa-Lusbini
Groundwater Irrigation Project (Credit 1316) if necessary. NZIDP
called for short-tern tenders oan LCB contract basis in December,
1966. 12 contracts were a warded with an amount of about NRs.21 M
In  total.    Contractors   started   the   works   prouptly  and
succesfully completed the remedial works by the end of April
1967.



-27-
Project Cost
3.26 ProJ*ct cost as estimated at appraisal is compared below
with actual expenditures:
Actual
as of
Description           Appraisal        July,1986
(NR&.M)
1. Civil Works and Buildings
(a) NEC improvements                  16.8              65.6
(b) Surface irrigatlon and drainage   56.4              59.9
(c) Comsunity groundwater development  3.6               4.2
(d) On-farm development                4.8               0.0
t-) Buildings                          8.4              19.8
Sub-total                         90.0             149.5 
2. quipmuent and Vehicles
(a) Engineering                       31.2              40.4
(b) Agriculture                        2.4               2.2
Sub-total                         33.6              42.6
3. Technical Service                   13.2             23.6
4. Establishment
(a) Engineering & Administration      10.8              31.2
(b) Agriculture                        3.6              20.8
Sub-total                          14.4             52.2
5. Contingency.
(a) Physical                          14.4               1.6
(b) Price                             31.2               3.1
Sub-total                         45.6               4.7
6. Land Acquisition                    6.0               0.5
T. Taxes and Duties                     1.2             10.6
Total Project Cost                204.0             283.5
A detailed  breakdown of  the actual project expenditure by years
against the appraisal estimate is presented in Table 2. The main
reasons for the cost differences between actual expenditure and
appraisal estimates are explained in paras  3.12.   Exchange rate
of Nepalese Rupee against one US Dollar changed froa NRs. 12.0 in
1978 to NRs. 21.0  in 1986.   With  change of  actual expenditure
frou appraised estimate, credit fund were reallocated with IDA
approval.
Disbursement
3.2?      Due to delay in construction works, actual disbursement
of credit was so slow that only 45X of total amount was withdrawn
at  the  appraised  target  by  the  end  of  1983.    Closing of
disbursment was extended to the end of 1986, but still l0O of



-28-
credit mount r.aln.4 undlaburs*d  at the  revised closing date.
However, remalning amount would be fully consumed for the urgent
remedial works of NUC taken place in 1986/87. Table 3 sumarizes
dlabursements by accumulated actual semester-wise froa fiscal
year 1979 to 1966.



-29-
IV. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
General
4.01      Present evaluatlon of the agricultural impact iseather
limited due to soveral reasons:
(a) The agronole survey whlch had been conducted by APROSC
in 1986 was not satisfactory and provided only partial
information. Other survey, conducted by the Monitoring
and   Evaluation   Section   also    provided   limited
lnformation.
(b) The water supply In 1986/87 and 1987/88 was greatly
dlsturbed due to flood damago to the Don canal. Water
supply has been practically stopped in September 198a,
and has not  yet  been  restored.    This  affected the
agricultural production seriously.
(c)  During  the  surveys  (APROSC  and  M&Z  Section)  that
provided the only available information to evaluate the
agricultural impact, the irrigation was erratic. The
project    implemented    temporary    wator   resource
developmeat of various local rivers crossing NEC. Thus
the yield levels do not reflect the actual potential
yield levels of the project.
4.02      In  spite  of  the  disturbance  of the irrigation, the
cropping coverage of the maln crops in the area, paddy and wheat,
as  reached   about  the  objective  levels.   However,  yields
especially of wheat were badly affected and this affected the
overall agricultural production.
Water Supply to NEC
4.03      The main  factor that  affected the agricultural impact
of the project is the pattern of the water supply  to NEC.   This
issue is separately discussed in Chapter VII in more detail.
Cropping Pattern and Cropping Intensity
4.04      The proposed cropping pattern and cropping intensity of
the SAR for Stage II, and the coming Stage III as reference, is
presented in Table 6 together with the actual cropping pattern
for years  1985/86 to  1987/88.   The actual  cropping pattern is
about  the  same  as  the  proposed  pattern.   Consequently, the
cropping intensity has achieved the proposed levels of the SAR.
Maintalinng tho desired cropping pattern and intensity for
several years, including the cropping seasons of 1986/8? and
1967/88. is a signlficant achievement in view of the difficulties
in the water supply. It is noted that farmers are ready to plant
the main crops of paddy and wheat as their own risk, hoping for
good  rains.    Thus,  regardless  of  the  effectiveness  of the



-30-
irrigation schedules, farmers tend to plant most of the area with
paddy.    The  extent  of  wheat  is more *ffected by the erratic
lrrIgatlon wlth coverage of 40 % in comparlson to a proposed 48 X
coverage and over 50 X coverage as practiced in the Tubewells
area.
Crop Yields and Agricultural Productlon
4.05      The  achelvement  of  crop  yields  and  production  is
analyzed for the two major crops In the project: paddy and wheat,
for which data Is available.   The average  crop yield  and total
production for Stage r area of 12,700 ha are given in Table 7.
The main conclusions in regards to crop yield. and production
are:
(a) The crop yield and total production of paddy has
achloved approxiately the expected levels of 2.9 t/ha
and 37,500 ton respectively.
(b) With regular irrigation and undisturbed water supply,
farmers have achieved high paddy yields of 3.3 t/ha in
comparlsonL to 2.95 t/ha expected. (Tubewell area 1987).
Cc)  The  yleld   of  wheat   in  1986/87   and  1987/88  is
significantly lower than the  expected  level.    It is
about 1.8 t/ha in compare to planned level planned
level of 2.6 t/ha. Thls is mainly due to shortage of
water supplies and inadequate irrigation in these crop
seasons.
(d) With regular irrigatlon the expected level of wheat
yield can be achieved as demonstrated in the Tubewell
area: 2.5  t/ha.   Furthermore, in  1985/86 season when
water was higher than the expected level, it reached to
3.0 t/ha.
(e) The overall production of wheat in the years 1986/87
and 198?/88 was about 11,000 tons in compare to the
expected production of 16,700 tons. This is mainly due
to the inadequate irrigation. In 1985/86 the overall
production of wheat was 19,100 ton, exceeding the
expected level.
(f) Wheat was sensitive to the availability of irrigation
water and the yield decreased by about 30 X when
irrigation  was  inadequate.    While,  paddy  was less
sensitive to the disturbances in the water supply.
With the good monsoon rains and temporary irrigation
practices, it maintained the expected levels of yield
and overall productlon.
(g) It can be antclipated that with undisturbed water
supply, crop yield and production in the project area
wi_l exceed the planned level



-31-
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Econosic Rate of Return
5.01      The project's  economic rate  of return  (ERR) has been
re-estimated, taking lnto account the actual costs incurred, and
revised estimate of agricultural benefits arising frou the
improvement of  water  supply  network  In  Stage-I1  area.   The
economic beneflts of Stage-I area through the upgrading of
surface drainage system, irrigation facilities and canal service
roads have not been quantified and omitted from this re-
evaluation accordingly.    The  analysis  is  made  only  for thio
surface irrigation  project commanding  12,700 ha.  The analysis
for the Community Tubewells Scheme (Deep and Shallow Tubewlls)
are not Included since there have been virtually in no progress
in the shallow tubewells scheme and the deep tubowells one was
excluded from the project in 1982.
5.02      As coapared  with the  appraisal estimates  the ERR are
re-estimated as follows:
Economic Rate of Return
At appraisal     At PCR
SX)            ($)
surface irrigation and Groundwater       22X           lSX
Deep tubewells scheme                    33%
Shallow tubewells scheme                 21X            -
The  re-estimated  ERR  includes  the  costs   of  upgrading  and
facillties of Stage-I area. The cost and benefit streams for the
analysis is given in Tablo-8. The lower rate of return is mainly
a result of delay of construction.



-32-
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
6 .1      NZIDB  was  responsible  for  the implementation of the
project. Chairman of NZIDB was changed to the Soecreiary to the
H14GN's Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) from Hinistry of Food,
Agriculture and Irrigation due to shifting DIEM under MWR. No
function of and no meuber comprlsing NZIDB were changed. NZIDB's
functions  were:  (a)  approval  of  annual   budget;  (b)  staff
appointuents; (c) approval of contracts; (d) review of progress;
and !e) coordination of policy matters on project implementation.
These   functions   worked   out  satisfactorily  throughout  the
implementation of the project.
6.02      The GM of NZIDP  had overall  management responsibility
for: (a) preparation of annual program, budget and staffing to
present  to  NZIDS;   (b)   general   site   administration;  (c)
authorization of contract payment within a limited amount; and
(d) coordination of project activities at Regional and District
levels.    Highly  qualified  GM  to  the satisfaction to IDA was
appointed and his performance was satisfactory throughout the
project implementation.   Four divisions were organized under the
GM: (a) Engineering Division; (b) Agricultural Division; (c)
Administrative Division; and (e) Finance Division. Of which.
Agricultural Division was abolished in 1986 and its function was
shifted  to  District  Agricultural  Development  Office. (DADO).
Engineering Division was divided into two units: (1) Design and
Construction Unit; and (2) Operation and Malntenance Unit.
Mechanical Division was newly established in 1963 to reinforce
the maintenance of project facilities under the mechanized
operation done by the  NZZDP.    The  project  consultant (Nlppon
Koei) was placed betmwen the GM and these Divisions.
Coordination among these groups we e satisfactorily worked out.
Accounting and Auditing
6.03      NZIDB established  and  has  been  maintaining separate
records and  accounts.  The accounts were audited annually.  The
audit reports submitted to IDA for each financial statement
prepared under  the HMGN  regulation were  generally delayed.  Au
IDA aission visited Nepal in 1986 particularly on review of
accounting system of irrigation projects under the IDA Credit.
The mission pointed out, however, that some of accounts and
records did not adequately reflect the status in accordance with.
accounting practices. On the basis of recommendation of the
mission, accounting system would be Improved.
Water Users Group
6.04      Parers   were    expected   to   fora   Water   Users'
Assoi^ations/Groups  (WUAs/WUGs)  to  achieve   successful  water
a-nag emet under the guidance of the project staff. In Stage-I
area, 505 WUA and 2 , 264 WUGs had been already formed though



-33-
these are not properly functioned. In Stage-It area, 33 WUAs and
147 WUGs were formed so far only in Blocks-7 and 8, however no
activities have been observed.
Agricultural Extension
6.05      The  project   appraisal  in  1987  intended  that  the
RegioTal Dlrector of Agriculture would be responsible for the
technical cont*nt of extension prograas in the six Districts 1/.
while execution of these programs and their administration would
be vested in the General/Project Manager of the three on-going
IDA-assisted projects (Narayani, Sunsari-Morang and Shairawa-
Lumbini  Groundwater  Projects).    The  Agricultural Development
Officer  (ADO)   and  other   extension  staff   were  under  the
supervision and technical guidance of Agricultural Divlsion of
the project.    Wlth  the  prograams  sanctioned  by  the Regional
Director of Agriculture, the project had been providing extension
activities including Training and Visit (T&V) System on the whole
project districts!
6.06      In  1985,   however,  the  whole  agricultural  support
programs was merged to Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (AERP) from the project and all the extension staff were
transferred to AERP. Since then the extension services have been
provided by the Department of Agriculture (DOA) through the
administrative district. The ADO is in charge of all extension-
relat4d activities within a district, asslted, by an Assistant
ADO (AADO) and technicians. The nuaber of staff involved in the
extension services for the Bara District including the Stage-I1
area has been Increased double from 139 to 250 since the project
started.  Zi the command area of the project, 77 extension staff
are in action, about 175 ha  being covered  by a  extension staff
and the number of staff 1s considered adequate. However, their
services are not always favorably recelved by farmers because of
insufficient introduction of new farming technlques and lack of
coordination for giving loans  and  fertllizers.    On  the other
hand, activities of extension staff are restricted by the lack of
adequate facilities of housing and transportation.



-34-
VII. SPECIAL ISSUES AND LESSONS LEARNED
Water supply to NEC
7.01      The main factor that  effected the  agrioultural impact
of the project is the pattern of the water supply to NEC. The
monthly average flows at the NEC iltake are given in  Table 9 f)r
a period of T years, 1980 - 1IS6 together with the NBC flows as
planned by the SAR  of Stage  II and  Stage III.   The  number of
closure days of NEC in each month is given ln Table 9, too.
7.02      Considering the flow requirement of entire project area
development including coming Stage-III as estimated in the Stage-
III SAR, it is obvious that the aonthly average flow was well
below the desired during the dry season (Dec.- Apr.) and during
August and  September (Table  9).   As known  from Table 10 which
shows the deficiency of water supply for 7 years average, the
deficiency In the monthly average dischrge (Def Q in Table 10)
was around 40 - 50 X for the dry season and 20 - 30 X In August
and  September.    During  May, June and July, however, excessive
average discharge was supplied.
T.03      Other major problem of the water  supply at  NEC intake
Is the unscheduled closure of the Don canal. During 1984, 1985
and 1986 the water supply from the Don canal was completely
stopped durlng and after the. monsoons. Furthermore, coaplete cut
In the water supply occurred alaost every month (see Table 9,
closing days).   On  the average for 1980-1987, the actual supply
time of flow to NEC intake was 59.6 X of the scheduled supply
time (Table  10).   The total number of closure days of the canal
as an average for 1980-1986 is 191.4 days per year.   Considering
the scheduled closure to be 30 days in November and 15 days in
December, the yearly average of us cheduled closure of supply to
NEC i3 146 days.
7.04      Considering  the   combined  effect  of  the  deficient
discharge and the unscheduled closure of NZC, the annual water
quantity whichi was actually delivered into NZC, as an average for
1980-1986 is 56.2 X of the annual scheduled quantity (Table 11).
The monthly supply quantity is 30-45 X of. scheduled supply in
December, January and February and only  10 X  in March.   It was
25-40 X in August, September and October. Schedulod supply and
more was provided in June and July.
7.05      The variations in flow  levels are  relatively wide and
frequent.   Detailed analysis  of the variation of flow is beyond
the scope of this report, however it can be mentioned that often
the flow  level varied within a period of one week and in a range
of  50-100  S.    These  changes  in  discharge  complicated  the
operation of the system.



-35-
Lessons Leasied
7.07      The   Stage-I1  project  including  preceding  Stage-I
project as the first IDA-supported irrigation project in Nepal
has provided  valuable lessons.   In  particular, the project has
revealed the need for: (1) considerable technical supervision,
given the iAplementing agency's institutional capabillty, (ii)
training of local staff, particularly at the support level; (iii)
a stronger institution-bulldlng effort tham had been envisaged at
appraisal;  and  (lv)  more  involvement  and   participation  by
farmers.
T.08      The  Stage-It project  was  coupleted in 1986.  It has
focused mainly oan  construction  activities.    Other components,
including mange met of completed parts of the irrigation systes,
institutoan building, training, and farmers' lnvolvement in WUGs
were  addressed,   but  the   results  have   not  been  entirely
satisfactory. Under the proposed Stage-III project, these issues
left In Stages-I and II areas should be consolidated.



-36-
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCZ
Preparatlon and Appraisal
8.01      The  Dank's  asb1stance  in project  preparation  and
formulation proved useful and the appraisal was well received.
Actual project cost In terms of Nepalese Rupees exceeded the
Appraisal estimate, but in US Dollars within the *stimate due to
devaluation of Rupees agalnst USS from NRs.12.O in 1978 to
MRs.21.0 in 1986. Except the cost for project establishment,
appraisal  estimate   proved  accurate   for  respective  project
component. However, the groundwater coaponent was not achieved
as  envisaged  in  the  appraisal.    Apart  from  such  physical
components as civil works and building, procurement of equipment
and  vehicles   and  technical  services,  institutional  aspects
including formation of water users' groups and agricultural
extension wa left unsatisfied.
SupervisIon
8.02      Bank supervision  missions vi&ited  the project sixteen
tiese for eight years from 1979 to 1986, averaging once every six
months. In addition, staff consultants of the Bank often visited
the project mainly for 'he assistance to groundwater components.
In earlier stage of the project, the missions focused on the
operation of Stage-I project as well as general supervision of
Stage-I1 project  implementation.   In the later stage, attention
was maily given to the mobilization of Stage-III project.



-37-
Table I Achlevoeent under Narliani Zone Devolopsont Stage-Il Project
asnnanusnnnuuma388saEnsumnaunu:m2au.ImsanaInmummEaua::2:22:sa33u3:3:I:az:ua3:a:::::::::a5a::
Achievement
as X of
Appraisal Revised  Actual   --------
ProJect Works                .elft  Target   tariot  Achieve. Appraisul Revised
..................... .....................................
I. lmwe'ato ot of Itt
(a) C@emtruuetlem of reltlag
*truntares                            so          13         8         I       6S       too
(b) Stremgtbeslmg ot leftetld
emhamkseat                            kg          10       57        57       570       100
(a) lnstallatlon of drainsas Inlets
*ad culverts                          no          10       17        17       170       100
(4) Comstructloa of protective
works (escape and chanenl)            no          3         2         2        C 
Ce) gravel netaillas es rlshtside
abhamkneot                            km         7         7?7       77        97       100
(t) Cart/foot bridge with accoss road  mo              I        12        10      200        83
(g) Floed *mbeaks  t (Cagati river)   k                I        -         I       125
(b) $i1e. Imprevement structures           ms                   32       32        -        100
2. Development of Irrlgatloa Sistem
(a) Iaprovemoet of secondary canals    km             40                 35         88
(b) gxtession of dIstrIbutIon
sstten (I Slocks In Stag*-II)
Cl) casal extension                   kn        380        -        2H1        83
CII) control structures                so      6,500        -      I'18         28        -
CitI) sorvice roads                     km        380                 284        73
(a) lmprovements to exIstlIs
structures In Stage-I                 so      LS          800       8C00       -        lo
3. Farm Croup Development (by faroers)
Ca) Field chansels                         km      1,500        -         2          I       -
Cb) Flold drains                           km     1,00          -        -         -         -
4.-Dralmsae Improvement
(a) Comatruetlon of drains                 km        250        -         to        I        -
Cb) ConstrvctIon of structures             no    2Z000          -136                7        -
5. Communlty Toboeells Shemoe
(a) lnstallatloo ofdeo*p tuboeolls         no          5         0         0        0
(b) lnstallation of shallow tubewells  no             20        eS       83       315        97
6. oluldings
(a) Casal operation buildings             so          10        24       20       200        83
(b) Imust stores                           mo e                            4       67
(a) AgrIcultural oxteasion buIldInse   no            ISO        6S       55        37        85
7. Iatorlogglmg sad Soll StabilIzatleo
(Pilet forks)
(a) lnstallatleo  of deep tubowels        mo                     0         0        0         0
(b) InstallstIon of shallow  tubowelle  so            20         0         0        0         0
7. Ulerohdrenleotrioe DOevelopSot           ao          I         I         0         0         0
saXs=sssszSaSs2maSsSsxns3      sS::m:umaSZSSSaaEazmuu2mmm:S::3s:aa:: S::::::-



g. ifts forks ad loldiesu
onesbi   Eshlere 6.1.1 Iuer.vset                   3.         .          .         .       5.          .         .         .1      3.3      63.0       I4..6     33.1      56        "65.
LbS Surisee IrrIelelos $ad khaissa.                 68.8      30.4      36.4        6.        53        3.         .         .e      e.g       6.4       31.$      Me.        1.6      53.#
(el Ceasuaip Sraesl.aSew  Oe.l.pmmi                  6.6       3.1       3.4         .6        .6       06         .6      0.0        0.0      0.6       0.0        22        0.6       1.3
Id gl es*                                        3.4       4.5        6.3       0.         .         .        .          .4      0.6       5.4        6.5       5.5       5.5      8S.6
Sob-soles                         1.16    32.4        36.1      It.u      16ee       3.:       s.         .s      i..       n1.e      n.e       36.6       M.A      e9..
Is)Emlaeeriins weeldes. eq.ip~Me   cad
Spores                                           8.6       6.6         .         .      31.1       0.0       0.         .0      33.3       0.1       6.6        1.5      6.0      10.5
II)  grlciI.rl slel.. sod lqelg.saa             I.3       8.3       0.        06         .4                 00        0.0       0.0       1.5       0.5       0.6       0.0       2.1
sob-ttl*s166                                 e.        :.a       i.e      33.6         . 0.     .0       o.a    1u.s         t.:       e1        a..       o.a      13.6
3. Ie.8.icsi Services
Elal Cosmssleuts                                     3.6       3.4       5.4        6.3      5.6         .        .         .  1.1.1                      .1         .6       .5       65.3
LII Airt Iblsurephi s.d Sappiss                      0.0       0.0       1.1        0.0       8.4       0.0      0.0         .        .          .6.     4.00                 0.6       4.3
Is) IrsIsles                                         0.6       8.3       0.0        g.e       i.2       0.0      0.6       e.a        e.g      0.0        0.         .         .6       o.s
Sob-Sloel                          3.6       3.6       4.6       5.2      83.3       1.5       1.6       I.         .3        .1        .0.0               6.3      33.6
4. eriest Sstolobidnot
(.8Esiesersrs sad ldlemlsrsIiem                   3.4       3.4       3.4       3.0       30.       0.0       6.8        .0       5.6       s.a       0.          .5      3.       3.5
lAb  rlceilwere  fporstlme Case                    1.3       3.4       0.0       0.0       3.6       0.0       1.6       3.3       3.6       3.4       5.6       3.3        £.4      86.5
Sab-selsI         3.6       4~~~~~~~~~.6 3.       .       1.          .0      3.0         .  0.3   .       81.4       6656.6          3.0           6.13.
to) Pbvslels                                         3.6       3.6        4.         .42  .4            0.6      6.0       0.         .         .         . .6  0.0                     6.68.
L)price                                            3.6       5.4      31.61      1.3      31?        6.  0.0        0.     0       6.0       a.e  6.0   .        3.1       0.0        3.1
Ssb-i.lsi                ~~~~1.3   83.0      16.6       5.8      45.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       6.0       0.0       4.1        0.0      4.1
6    edlequislglls                               1.3       3.4       s.S'      *.o      .e.a       *.o       o.a       0.0       o.a       6.0       0.6       0.4       6.0       .6.
1.taxes sod "ties                                   1.3       1.3       6.07      .0.       3.1       0.0       0.6       8.3       8.1       .6.       3.1       :.a       0.1      60.51
los$ 1probeSt £05                      43.2      61.3      63.6       301.0    304.0       2.6     14.1      31.0      41.1      44.6      16.3      53.0       348S    363.5,
leesors as Is osieel expesdltere records doriess 8)19/S to IIIl/02 are available except $boss etotl august s as of SIlOR6
&Assul eupesdiisres tree IMM/1 I. 198iO? are estiesaed basaled the lb*rse prosbeso POC nor&s.



-39-
Table 3 Actual and Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Appraisal Estiasto                  Disbursement as
IDA Fiscal Tear--------------*--------   Actual   X of Appraisal
and Semester    Semester   Cumulstlie  Cumulative   (cumulative)
.....       ........... .................C ........................
(USs '000)  (USS '000)  (SS '000)
1571
First                500           500           -
Second             1.000         I,SOO           137         9.1
1880
First             1l600          3.100           280 - ;      .0
Second             2,100         5,200           431         3.4
1981
Flrst              .2.100        7,300         1,358 ,-    19.0
Secood             2,100         5,400         1,798        19.1
1882
First              2.200        11O300 2Ot32                22.7
Second             1,200        12.800        4.544         35.5
1883
First              1,200        14,000        5,788         41.3
Second                             -          68237         44.6
1984
First                                         7,358         52.6
Second               -             -          8,306         61.5
fIrst                --                       83.4          63.3
Second                                       10.781         77.0
3136
First                                        11,404 '       81.5
Second               .                       12,B04         90.0
:::S::-  e5_:c::S::: :::::S3



DeerIelea                               1s33       0lp     1618 18     116 I187 3 IS/Ia#l 43) 61162 I44  82/33 453  2Sle I) 04SI423 1511   463 {l
,.................................................................................................................................................................... ................................................
18I      66i*_ sI  of lM,. a". *w.  s3 aac-I (3S0S b1e
ta-u     Add. *Wl. 1-Sape  as sukss  Islas#. fre. Ue .I                     3           0.0                    .g        s 11.1               4.0      14.0      90.
48-33    Add. irawellgs e  Mee. F4  sr" J88.'*                                                                          11 .      16.1       3.0.1    114..      M6.$
(A 833    *is.  awake  tfod 30.. tfea See gm                                             4.5                            6.6       11.6  tcesatral Bterameted Is Jue. '3)
[A-43    Ful.aWdd. .urs  l  d1i 6 I - la keep). U,.. s.. V0                 I          II6.0                                .15.0                      31.1       6.
(8-)1   fmtlor ad. owrl    .                        tlaa Fd-8.51m3). Ir . Feb.'63  3    0.                                                  31.0      A00.
£8-SI    Uersemaeal of hIeie lana   fle" ser.'83                            3            46.0                 0.0       0.0       l1.        35.0      35.0
(03      lItarem t of 3M. lIege-le 45.5 &1
1- l*  heat aelree$ lag 466 be). free fob.'38.                                                                 0         50.0     300.0
1333    halo  haul read * geasll.. 480.0 1op . fUreear.'S                             I600.0                 0.6          .       62.2       431 .3    36        100.1
18-31    fs  ree" Pd 3.3 485.0 be). free Dec.13                             S          6016.0                13.0      35.6    6106.
10-41   fWeer ad.  orles  U.5-d41.1 be so)                                             f 600.0                                              606.0
10-53    Further add. merl 446 .-.11 0                                      3600        M-05.0                                                        604.0,
(35l    Further add. verble 456.5-1.0 be B11)                               I          140.0                                                s6.0,
(CI     lrweea  *t os    f o li. Powell 411 be)
(C-I)    Sircuallet  easel baol mear Ut  1SSae,  3.46.16.) free P*gg        I          1606.0                 W.                 160.0
IC-2I    Limb elaaal sod airmlmref  lm.3aee3 ores t.1.3                     3          606.01                65.6      65.0        1.0       06.
(6-33    Service reed Ue.1 4o1 to) from So..Ns                              3          60.0                            55.6       83.0      600.01
(6-43    Leta haul etreag n  leas fS km) from A* r.l                        3          100.0                 33.1      83.1       61.6      660.0
(6-s3     reraw add. *erl  4st-n to so). creaFeh.                                       1 616.6                                              33.1     600.0
1C-63    Leta heatl alreslalbaalee  ralme 0 vimld.2.3  to froma acaa        3          6004.61                                               16.6      381.01     00.
(C-li    Lel     l bee   i                     f     .bll,flo l...3  f. r   360.6                                                            56.6      34.6    l66.6
(c-83    *       S tea  esu *S-l in 3o) fremlarS.3                          3          16.1                                                 13.0       44.2       42.6
t1-33    Uaaae  11s flo   oa  sea reale. asrectres a Urea   r.V                         M 0.4                                                *1.       60.6       33.0             0
EC-isi  ie0iv1ee tue on6-IlS  MI la  free Jaa.'113                                     366.0                                                 10.0     6M.0
(ei      Surtfce Brrlgatlees grste. heslel 1. St
(3-63     elogt-? (3-emseres frea Old-Jam.-31                               he       L,60.0      522.6  IMGA    3l561.6   1632. B4 Islas..   3.610
I rlalels lea lrelll  *amd  asa sarmsated 6. Jul.0181
(10-33    SledS       aae-   ez zta  t" Are r.133          *e                        810416.0    212.0   1,681.6   6.4536   1.610.    611611.40 6,66    20416.0
(erwigml eeuir.etl(d   6see msa lersted so "16833
16-83    *I e%-$ £eatraat it" 10".41)                                        a        03250.6      0.6       56.6     316.6      1t.0   1.23.6   86.62.0   3.3s5.6
16-43    heal-b  lestrag from Ner.,U)                                       ba       3,61.61       0.0        0.0     151.0  .1     . 6f.  16336.6   13,6. 4.0   3.51.0
1£-I    Sl c-lel- seareci fem Febt sal                                       8        114,6.40.06.0         914.0     343.0      664.6      311.0   8.11.0  23916.6
£6.53    liel-le lEeaatraet ir   feh.'l)                                    ha       6,140.0       6.0        6.6       6.6       M1.0    6s4.0       431.0  18946.
la3      CessirselIem of add. merle  a 8Ie.CS-6 to S
11-i)    slog& I/I * froa keg.  le06                                                                                    28.0      33.6      6601.6
(1-31    Bl oc  6. fr*o * ke.6 "O                                                      I60.0 13.0                                  9.0    61.          6
11-23    Sla  18c . frem kec.'0                                                        660.6                           32.6      16.0        11       1@.
11-43    1Isloc  3. Ire. kg..6 I                                                       666.41                          36.6       65.0       31.41    311.10    C60.
t1-13     e 1c  6. frea bc.'60                                                         se6.6                            34.       36.        3.4       3  
(1-63    1leek *. fr.a Dec.66                                               31360.0                                      2.0      16.6      ise.6
11-01   S1le   6. free Dec.61                                               3          666.6                           29.6       45.         3.      603.1
(1-63    Slas-i. tem Jme.'12                                                S          606.6                                       5.0      606.0
::::::::::=:::f::::1 ::::: :::==::l:l:SZs:::::    ::::::.::::UZ:,Z5:;:i::::    :    :::::::d                                                                   ,:::::::



tablo  4     ,eea  *I 0 eas-II Proloet lwbt   68al
ksa .                                   goal       *'      lo lals1) IslS 1s ) sol1s  631 WI/t (4) 131323 (1  13114 (5) 34/51 It) 61/t 61
............................................. .. ,,,,.....,,,...........,,,..,...................................,,,,.......... *
ful     USW  Zad. mweS  fw  liode  I - I
:u-f3    s1 1 sW                          1                                           Ie.$                                                   We
If-al    l§*so il  free Vb.03                                               *.0                                                             3.0.
(9-4 453s58 Due  rob.00                                                           353                                                   63.0
EU-Si 1l k10 ftoe n1b.3                                                    U           66.5                                                31.
(f-13   Ortl    ur    im In   f.-'                                                    1011.6                                               n.
ErI  1.4-S ies andeb.63sa  Sw                                                     600.0                                                 61.0
ES       eaecl *   lu*n.n  esSIlw
c6-3    Cultl sub   *                                                                 600e.                                                                                 33.1
le-       MI       cMI ts rles  ba.4                                        3          30.                                                              4.0       33.         We.1
(Ul     Dcl@" gO
[i-6JC  *,.zele  Slugs-Il 63 a. Ego  b'Spg                                            30.0        -          5.0        6.0       0.0       18.5       61.0       16.1      33.
EseeIrea see aerl*e t l' d Is 5.i  333
WI.)    3.rbshet from Set.'a3S6.03.
(3.31    an buldIat1s. 3I3cbs-I to I 40 msa.) from mar.'0                               00        -                     s*        2  20.    83.0       3.         5.4
(6-41    U SI biS lua. SSiebs-lt  is Is ase.) it" Sam'lE                    S             .                                       30.       632.3      31.5      15.0
(343    JI * Jil  %martge  gsa  lralmlmg galer*. free sawle                 S                                          51. 3.' .'.1
4J132 ee.. JIM4  a".. t16Jt/18  *e.)
(1s63    hildiea I.s L.l lers beS4os  from J..133                                       00.03
1E-Il   lerseeapet tart. bSelidIs  ro,e J8m.033                                        I".0 H330                                                      I05.$
go-es6m   Wpelers lewis MSle  EEC tire. halt S2                                    600.0                                                11*0      Ise.1
ESS  ll..i siom  Smneueuil                                                        1041.0                                                S3.#      Is0.#0
E1-I.)  igrieellwel Irelefles mewss at Bara A ftars liaSrlsS                                                                                           Is0.06.5 1.$  13.0    13.0
Ill      Imetre aee.m  works Ew Sigoemi lebecells
Sllmaosed bip Usbroelr-IuihSm hroeclm
(i-l     Mogli  S"  rosldeislil Selldlmas                                   S          l53.0                 396.     300.
116-1    *fuirstl   c lof Ibe.     El mcml from 1.1.3                      S          M..
l1-31  l *ulir§i*s   of IsSecel (lise. free feb.33                                     I e 800.$                       -          15.0
(8-4)    lserrgs*mo*  of lIeales  £.b...l.                                             600.0                                                            00        330        3.
11-61    ctrlse  Sof 11 *md 1 1 to  *o                                                 I00.0                                                           10.        3.0
11(83    tariergetl   11 .rsrs 6 4 seJ                                      5          600.0                                                           51.0      30s.0
113-13    .ster;tllsa of  Smeu hw s.el                                      1l30.0                                                                      0.3       411.0      0s3.0
tO        Bec ls#  S  .Iissrl.el csrts                                      I          155.4                                                           44.6       46.6       40.0
Ci)      SireSiSs "eOpteg Ewe.8 Spel                          0.0                             606o.0                                                   e.0
(13      add. carl   1is  3/34
u-131     EC-Is                                                             S          30.                                                             35.1
1  t21   iic-ell                                                            g           g.a.5                                                                     91.$
61-3)    336.1-6                                                                                                                                       M 5.  3.0
(N-41    ileetk-6
(L)      FwetIer add. serbt  In 154/11                               *                 803.0
It1          p.rgvgse  me 3N6EC                                                         0.0                                                                      306.0
It2      Block$tW   I   I                                                              I0.1                                                                      111.9
([-31    Block$ 1 *                                                                    II  5  0.0                                                                  5 6.
(i-41    misc. IclIdlags                                                    1          sS.,                                                                       53.0
(I S)1  T&la1h  river SIraj|                                                S          I.s.                                                                      1800.
(It-i    Add. Improve le *EC                                                S30.0                                                                                 30
IL 71    Add. Sticks 4 - I                                                             M S  00.$                                                                  31.0
Il-C]    A44.  spree to .EC-III                                                         00.0                                                                      14.0
(ill    Ii.B33ck 6066, I                                                           600.6                                                                      16.6



-42-
Table 5   List of Equipment and Vehicles Procured
No.              Dmeription              Appraisal Procured   Date
A. Equipment for Engineering Use
1. Hydraulic excavator 0.4 cum.             1         2    Sep. 1981
2. Hydraulic excavator 0.2 cum.             -         4    Jul. 1981
3. Road roller, Macadam type                I         I    Mar. 1981
4. Pneumatic tire roller                    2         1    Apr. 1i9ts
5. Wheel loader 1.6 cum.                    -         2    Apr. 1982
6. Portable air compressor                  -         1    Jul. 1963
7. Mobile crane 6 ton                       1         1    Jul. 1983
8. Dragline 0.6 cum.                        1         1    Jul. 1983
9. Dump truck                               -         4    Jul. 1983
10. Water sprinkler cruck                    1         1    Jul. 1983
11. Cargo truck                              -         2    Jul. 1983
12. Farm tractor                             -         5    Nov. 1983
13. Mobile workshop truck                    -         1    Jul. 1983
14. Fuel tanker 2 K-lit                      -         1   .May  1984
15. Portable driller                         -         2    May  1984
16. Wheel dozer cum loader 1.4 cum.          -         I    Jan. 1986
17. Motor grader                             -         1    Jan. 1986
18. Wheel loader 1.4 cum. cum dozer          -         1    Jan. 1986
19. Hydraulic excavator 0.4 cum.             -         2    Jan. 1986
20. Hydraulic excavator 0.2 cum.             -         8    Jan. 1986
21. Hydraulic excavator, wheel mounted       -         2    Jan. 1986
22. Field service car                        -         1    Jul. 1985
23. Tools for workshop                      lot       lot   Jan. 1986
24. Equipment and tools for workshop        lot      lot   Aug. 1981
25. Quality control labo. apparatus         lot      lot   Aug. 1981
26. Spareparts of equipment                 202      202         -
27. Drill rig (for Bhairawa Lumbini)         1         1         -
B. Vehilcles for Engineering Use
28. Jeep type vehicle                        3         2    Sep. 1982
29. Jeep type vehicle                        -         3    May  1984
C. Vehicles and Equipment for Agricultural Extension Purpose
30. Jeep type vehicle                       13         5    Sep. 1982
31. Pick-up truck                            2         1    Jan. 1985
32. Mini bus                                 1         1    Jul. 1983
33. Audio-visual equipment                  lot      lot         -
miiiiiuimn mnnumnimaam munmn



Table .6 Cropplng Pattern and Cropping Intensity in Stage II Area
SAR Stage II  SAR Stage III  AROSC 1987              K   8 B  Division
1985/86     1986/87      1987/S
Crop         S    TW        S    TW        S    TW        S    TW      S    TW      S    TW
B. Paddy      30    30            -           -     -        -     -     -      -     -      -
M. Paddy      35    35        94.0   -       93.3  91.5    68.5  95.8  82.9  86.0  94.1 100.0
L. Paddy      35    35         -     -        -     -        -     -      -     -     -      -
Wheat          48    45       50     -       36.0  32.5    39.0  53.6  41.0  52.1  37    61.9
Pulses         15    10       11     -       14.2  15.6    30.8- 45.0  30.8  52.0  11.7  13.9
OJlsees        6      5       16     -       12.4  13.2      -     -      -     -     -      -
Vege.          4      4        1.0   -        2.7   3.6    44.0   3.4   3.4   3.4   2.5   3.5
Sugarcane     10    15         3.0   -        4.8   6.0      8.3   8.2   7.9  12.0   3.7   3.2
Maiz           -    15         -     -        3.0   3.6      4.0   4.6   8.0   7.5   2.4   7.4
Cropping     183   194       175            166,7 166.0   171.6 209.6 173.9 215.0 151.5 190.1
intensity
Note.  S: Surface irrigat-ion area
TW: Tubewells



Tabl 'I Agrlcultural Production of Main Crops
Crop      Item            SAR Stage II APROSC Survty            H a   Surveys
198?       1987/86 196616             ios/5a
S    TW       S    TW       S    TW     8    TW       S    7W
Paddies Cropped area
(1,000 ha)      12.7  0.8    11.85  2.47  11.95  2.T  10.6   2.4   10.9   2.6
Intenslty
(X     .      100  100       93.3  91.5   94.1  100   82.9  88.0   85.5  95.8
Yield
(t/ha)           2.95 2.95    3.0   3.3    2.3    3.1  2.7   3.25   2.97  2.75
Production
(loot)          37.5  2.4    35.5   8.15  27.5    8.4 28.3   7.8   32.3   7.1
Wheat   Cropped area
(1,000 ha)       6.1  0.36    4.6   0.9    4.7    1.67 5.2   1.4    4.9   1.4
Intetsity
(X)            48   45       36    32.5   37       61.9 41.0  52.1   39.0  53.6
Yield
(t/ha)           2.6  2.6       1.8   2.5    1.7    2.2  1.98  2.54   3.0   3.05
Production
(lOOt)           15.8  0.9     8.3   2.25   8.0    3.7 10.3   3.5   14.7   4.4
Note. S : Surface irrigation area
TW : Tubewells
(1) average for early and normal paddy



-45-
Tablo 8 Cost and Benefit Stream for Economic
Re-valuatton
Unit: NRa. M
Investment               Incremental
Sr.      Year        Cost      O0M Cost    Benefit
1      1978/79       3.8          0.1         0.0
2      1979/80      13.5          0.4         0.0
3      1980/81      19.8          0.7          1.0
4      1981/82      45.4          0.9         3.8
5      1982/83      43.1          1.2         9.3
6      1983/84      55.4          1.6         16.1
7      1984/85      51.3          1.9        23;9
8      1985/86      33.3          1.9        32.5
9      1986/87                    1.9        41.2
10      1987/88                    1.9        47.5
11      1988/89                    1.9        50.8
12      1989/90                    1.9        51.5 
13      1990/91                    1.9        51.5
14      1991/92                    1.9        51.5
15      1992/93                    1.9        51.5
30      2007/08                    1.9        51.5
Basis for Re-evaluation
1. Tax and duties and cost for land acquisition as
transfer payment, and cost for groundwater
component are excluded from the Investment Cost.
2. 08M Cost at a rate of .NRs.150/ha ls used.
3. Estimate of Incremental Benefit is shown in
Table 8A
4. Crop yields reach to target in 4 years



Tubilt OCA)Castiuate of ineroe*ntal Benefit     -46-
(1) With Project .'ondition
Yi.l'i             ('rei%s     Inplut    Ne^        t a, I
Cron         Area (ha)   ton/ha  Price/ton  Return/ha  Cost/ha  Return  I.aboug
Paddy tlYV    0.75         3.2      2300      7360        1400     4470     94
Paddy Local   0.25         2.3      2300      5290        113q     1040     3t
Wheat         0.50         2.6      2200      5720        2050     1335      48
Palses        0.15         0.9      4000      3600        1030      385      7
OhIsoeds      0.10         0.3      4500      3600         870      270       7
8000     186
Labour charges (Assumed 25 per cent of total labour is hired)
a 0.25xlOx1A6"465
Interest on working capital '0.14x0.5x2600-18O
Water charge (go. 60 ha/crop)uI0Ox1.75m17S
Net Benefit - eOO - 465 - 180   17.5 - 7180
(2) Without Project Condition
Yieldl             Cross       Input    Net     Total
Cron         Area (ha)   ton/ha  Price/ton  Return/ha  cost/ha  Return  Labcutr
Paddy  WYV    0.35         2.1      2300      4030        1380     1210      413
Paddy Local   0.60         1.5      2300      3450         940     30on      6:3
wiest         0.35         1.2      2200      2640         920      600
Pulses        0.10         0.3      4000      3200         610      180      '1
Oilseeds      0.05         0.5      4500      2250         450      190       3
3580      11t
Labour charges (Assumed 25 per cent of total labour is hired)
-0.25x1Ox141-353
Interest on working capit1- O.14x0.5x1450-102
Income from crop cultivation-3580 - 353 - 102-3125
(3) Net Incremental Benefit per ha
Rs. 7,180 - Rs. 3,125 - Rs. 4.05£



Tabl. 9  Water Supply at NBC Intake
Year      Item      Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
SAR       (1)       7.5   0.8  13.6   8.7  10.8  11.1  18.6   6.8  16.7  14.9  15.6   8.8
Stago I (2)          -     -      -   21       7      -      -      -     -    7       7       -
1980      (1)      8.0   7.7   8.0    -    8.5  13.0  18.8  12.9  16.0  20.1    -    4.9
(2)       -      -   21    30       4       -   10       1     1    10    30    16
1981      (1)      6.8   7.6   4.9   8.6   9.2  12.3  13.6  10.8    -   13.1    -    6.2
(2)      7       -   23    1a        -      -    3    20    30        1    30    23
1982      (1)      9.2   7.9    -        -    9.9  11.5  18.0  18.4  19.0  16.6    -   11.1
(2)      3      6    31    30    12    13          -      -   16    12    30    17
1983      (1)      3.9   8.5   9.1    -   13.2  14.5  17.1  18.8  20.8  16.3    -   11.5
(2)       -      -   22    30       2      1      8      3     3      9    30    17
1984      (1)      3.0  12.5    -        -   11.9  13.9    -        -     -      -      -      -
(2)       -      -   31    30    12         -   31    31    30    31    30    31
1965      (1)      0.8  13.1  12.0    -   21.4  20.5    -           -     -      -      -
(2)      4       -   26    30       8      6    31    31    30    31    30    .1
1986      (1X      8.6   5.3  11.8    -   11.9  19.4  18.2  17.1   -             -      -      -
(2)      2    10       9    30    21        -      -   18    30    31    30    31
Average  (1)        0.8   8.9   9.2    -   12.3  15.0  17.1  16.6  18.9  17.0    -    8.4
1980-86  12)       6.6   2.3  23.2  30        8.4   2.8  11.8  14.8  20.0  17.8  30    23.7
SAR       (1)      9.8  18.3  21.7   3.0  10.0  11.7   7.7  24.1  24.1  17.9    -   13.2
Stage 111(2)        -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -   30      15
Note. (1) : Average flow at NEC head intake (a3/sec)
(2) : Closing days of NEC head (days)
* A month in which no flow for the whole month is not calculates in the m3 /sec average
but only at the closing days average.



Tabje 10 Deflciency of Supply of Water Quantity
Month              Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
Def Q         (X) 45.4  51.4  57.6   -   (-23) (-26.2) (-122) 31.1 21.6  5.0    -   36.4
supply tiae   () 78.7  91.8  25       -    71.6  90.7  61.9  52.0  43.0  42.0    -   49.0
% of requlred
time
supply water  (%) 43.0  44.6  10.6   -    88.1 116.3 137.4  25.0   5.9  39.9    -   31.2
quantity X
of requlred
QSAR - monthly average flow required at NBC intake according to SAR Stage III (m3/sec)
QNEC - 7 years average of monthly average flows (m3/sec)
Def Q - Deficient avorage discharge supply at NEC lntake percent of required discharge (X)
Def Q - QSAR-QNEC X 100 (%)
QSAR
Supply time - days of scheduled supply - cloalng days x 100
.days of cheduled supply
Supply water =(100 -Def Q) x (Supply time) : quantity indicate excessive discharge
where QNEC -QSAR.



-49-
Annex
Tabl.aJ
Page 1
NARAYANT 20NE IRRTGATION DEVELOPMF.NT - STAGE 1I PROJECT
(Credit 856-NEP)
STATUS OF COVENANTS AT COMPLETION
Remarks
A. Conditions Not Fully Complied With
Water to be made available               Although project authority
beyond tertiary outlets only             actively pursued the
when water users' groups                 establishment of WUGs,
(WUGs) have been formed and             regular water supply was
field channels constructed,              not delivered to the
and satisfactory distribution            blocks, and the activities
routines established.                    were discontinued.
Section 3.05
Formal local and overseas                On-the-job training by the
training would be carried out.           project consultants and
regular agricultural
training by DOA completed.
No overseas training was
carried out under the
project.



-50-                               Annex 1
Table 1
Page 2
SetA6n 3R QOR(e
Department of Agriculture               Only the first evaluation
should undertake two                    study was completed by
agricultural and economic               1983.
evaluation studies by June
1983 and June 1986.
Sett-inn 4.02lal
Establish and collect water             Collection of water charges
charges.                                from surface irrigation
scheme has been poor (about
6% recovery) due to
unreliable water supply.
The recovery from project
tubewells has been
satisfactory (over 80%),
but encounters difficulties
since water charges were
raised to NRs 400/Rs/year.
Improvements are expected
with improved reliability
and following HMGN decision
to have a flat charge per
ha and transfer
responsibility for its
collection to the Revenue
Department.
B. 
Secti on 4-02 (hi
(b)  Government review of               HMGN has recently fixed a
water charges at regular                flat rate of water charges
intervals of not less than              (HMGN's letter of 5/25/86
three years.                            to IDA): surface irrigation
scheme at NRs 200/ha/yr and
tubewell scheme at NRs
400/ha/yr.



-S1-
Annex I
Page 3
Positioning of a General                Complied
Manager with satisfactory
qualifications and experience.
Sentain 3-04
The project would be staffed            Complied
approximately to the agreed
schedule.
sAetion 3tiS
(a)  Transmission lines, main           Cancelled.  Funds were
distribution channels and               diverted to repair severe
access tracks would be                  flood damage along the main
constructed to serve the                system.
community tubewell scheme at
no cost to the farmers.
(b)  Financial arrangements to          Complied
be made between HMGN and ADBN
for providing loans for the
tubewell component.
satinn 4,01
NZIDB, ADBN and DA to maintain          Complied
separate records and submit
annual audit reports.
Seati6n 4.03
(a)  NZIDB would furnish by             Complied
July 31 its operation and
maintenance budget for the NEC
system.
(b)  NZIDB would prepare an             Complied
operation and maintenance
manual, in draft by June 1,
1979 and in final form by
October 1, 1980.



-52-
1.         Relatmd Rank Loana and/pr Cred4tl  1
Loan/Credit                               Year of
P ap      ;     g     xvala-                          Statta   CmomantsX
1.Mahakali Irrigation II
(Cr.1924-NEP)                          6/15/88         SPN
2.Sunsari Morang
Irrigation II
(Cr. 1814-NEP)                        6/2/87           SPN
3.Narayani Irrigation III
(Cr.1715-NEP)                          6/19/86         SPN
4.Agricultural
Extension II
(Cr.1570-NEP)                          3/26/85         SPN
5.Bhairawa Lwumbini
Groundwater Irrigation II
(Cr. 1316-NEP)                         1/18/83         SPN
6 .Agricultural
Extension & Research
Cr. 1100-NEP                           2/3/81          SPN
7.Babai Irrigation
Engineering
(Cr.1093-NEP)                         1/6/81           Completed
8.Mahakali Irrigation I
(Cr. 1055-NEP)                         9/26/80         PCR
9.Narayani Zone Irrigation
and Development
(Cr.856-NEP)                           10/10/78        PCR
10.Sunsari Morang Irrigation I
(Cr.812-NEP)                          5/25/78          Completed
11.Bhairawa Lumbini
Groundwater Irrigation
(Cr. 654-NEP)                          7/6/76          Completed
12.Birganj Irrigation
(Cr.373-NEP)                           3/20/73         Completed
1 Projects in the same sector that preceded or followed this project; projects in
related sectors; and adjustment operations with related objectives.



-53-
TAWa
prpiec± CostsR
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate  Revised Estimate         Actual
Catory        LQoal Foreign        lotal Local Foreign   Total LQoal Foreign
Total
Civil Works   4.4    3.1   7.5       5.5   3.8    9.3    5.4    3.7    9.1
Equipment &
Vehicles   -      2.8   2.8      -     2.6    2.6      -       2.6    2.6
Technical
Services    0.2    0.9   1.1      0.2   0.9    1.1      0.3    1.2    1.5
Other          3.2    2.4   5.6      2.3   1.7    3.9    2.3    1.7    4.0
Total    7.8&         f 2.  1   17f 0 . 0     6.9i    7,9    E.3l   1.22



anne
Table 4
Physical Achievements
Percent                    Achievement
Appraisal  Revised    Change       Actual                as % of
i       ax=        ZA L        in Trget  Achieved  AppraisAl   Revised
SURFACE WATER IRRIGATION
Improvements to NEC:
Regulating structures          no        13          8          -38           8         62       100
Embankment work                km        18          -             0         18        100         -
Drainage inlets                no        10         13            30         13        130       100
Access road                    km        79          -             0         79        100         -
Distribution System:
Improvements of
secondary canals             km        40          -            0          37         93
Extensions of
- canals                       km       360          -             0        3C0         83         -
-control structures            no      6500      2060           -68        2060         32       100
- service roads                km       360       263           -27         263         73       100
GROUND WATER IRRIGATION
Installation of:
Deep tubewells                 no         5          0         -100           -          -         -
Shallow tubewells              no        20         65          225          65        325       100
Power transmission lines          km        20          -             0          -           -        -
0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t X



-55-
Credit Allocati1on
--------- --- USS $------------
Appraisal       Actual            Actual as %
LAstimatg       Exuznd¢XurAs      of Eatimate
Civil Works
Community Tubewells         0.3             0                  0
Other                       8.7             8.4               97
Equipment, Vehicles
and Spare Parts              3.1             3.0               97
Technical Services             1.2             1.8              150
Other                          0.7             0.8              114
Total                        Q            1L. I



,To KolimQ^du                                                                                  N E PA L                              IRR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 135172
~~~Ta Kashmando ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL
Noroyani Zone Irrigation Development Project
/  4:                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stage I
GENERAL PLAN
N)  E  P  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              '-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~Main canal              -      E.issing roads
- Sec-dary canals              -.-v--Roilway
Slew.                 I                       *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kol sya                                                        Rives                          ----.- Tran-ission lines,
Bormqe~                          n,                                                                      KILOMETERS 4                                  Ground.ler deelopment          Cw     Trons
rwn                                                                           A       6      aaneaern-tional bo.ndory
*~~~~~~~   *  s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Esisting tubewvells
gs   \  /   10  > ) ( 0              Po iestA thor                *mtes                                                                                 Block bndonies
X~~~~*r    ; { ~c                 \   {   locll''        ;, I
Z - ST4G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPAI LASTAG I R>;N 
N~~~ Ig \' --''K''-'___
BalockK                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
13)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.)
IN                       D                IA
STAGE I       STAGE n                                                                                                                                                            Ga
MARCH 1901



800D 1 3527i
tr3O                                                            54~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                    8500~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ISOM
43 30                                                             8'4'00                                                            84-30                                                             bS'-00                                       hiiwzsbllr.Sn'j
Rgu1    Protect ares                                                                                                                                NEPALs
Rivers & strea,ms                                                                                                                       NEPAL
Irr,gotio.canal                                                        NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGED PROJECT
Control gates
®    Power stotion                                                                                                                   Project Location
-     o Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27'30'
_17'30    ,,,,-- Railways
WIernot,onal boundaries                         (  %
N             E             P             A               L
N 'I,-P         Barroge          -     o                                                                                                                    knoo,   Va,k,noa,  Tho
Command Areo                                                                  o 
,.40,0001,(Gross)
T. KATHMANDU
In'                                   C-ommrvd Area                                                                                                                                               A     7'
,,                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~23,520 Ho (Gross)                               -NSAL./
CommandAreaCPCommo    Are
rTBN -                                           65,000ho (Gr.ss}                               NE4 ,  t
9                                                                                        P o2,000H   Gr000      Gro)
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rea                                                                                                           emeopnd nert Area 19  
930~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,000 Ho (rs)TTX..,
o        4          s        12i,tiGES                                                                                                 t
'   '  CommanCd Arearea
0      5       1o     t5       2KILOMETERS                          680,000 hea(Gross)
9e3' 30                                                           t1,4 00                                                           t430                                                             8s500                                                                 35 30
MARCH 1991



IBRD 1364
_O'                              BQ ...... B2-                                                                                 84-                                                                 86                                                                  88°
_...'.                                                                                                                                                                                 NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
NATIONAL EXTENSION SERVICES DISTRICTS
Mountain Region                                         Rivers                                                          3
1. Hill Region                                            Development Region Boundaries
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Inner Teroi                                                                                                                                                     Administrative  Zone  Boundories
IAIIAOI'                                   I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toroi                       District Boundaries
Kattmandu Valley                          -n -          lvternationol Boundaries
*  or    " *~~~~~~~~~~~~  "   ~~~~~~r                                                                        ZZ::::  ~~~~~~~~~~~Ongoing Project
irMProposed Project
/         S                                                                      )<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ x'~~\   Proposed Agricultorol E-tension Component Districts
DAILE  JAJARKS'  INHA                                     IRI
oAlLruyJ    JAJACKO  naomi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         H            I APA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~OP
o     20    40    60    b0    100   120   140  iuoKoIohAt1RvS                                                                                          DVOMN                        -      ?
TM, ,m 1,6,,p,pr'dbo.hbx lvb- W*  ,,' ,,O"d.,t1Yd.Eb'.i   ,v'-.s ,~,,Jh. \g>- 7:l B <
,.D.p,,Ai4 ,,d 1 .066,,ly  s .1. vo., I,, , lv.in w,fld * n h,,&  d 4 o m4, vv,,,)MI                                                                                   A  ,,,. 
I=iumolfrh4rrreeeednFe                   EVERESToelhbogeJones  W  X  g  \DINAGE DEViLOPP/EN1aflQJECr
8Q-                            Pi2'                                                                   8&4*                       \t                                    \  86'                                                               1^'  818*~~~~~~~~~~TR P
I 2b  A6  6b  so  I   MIL                                                            IW
MARCH6 1991



