Document of
FILE   C If  The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2385-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
STAGE II PROJECT
September 25, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Until March 20, 1978
US$1.00           -        NRs 12.50
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00                    NRs 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           2.47 acres (ac)
3             1.50 bighas
1 million cubic meters (Mm )             810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 cu ic meter per second
(m /s)                       -         35.31 cubic feet per
second (cusec)
1 metric ton                             2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 to July 15
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADBN      -      Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       -      Agriculture Input Corporation
DA        -      Department of Agriculture
DIHM      -      Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
GM        -      General Manager
JT        -      Junior Technician
JTA       -      Junior Technician Assistant
MFAI      -      Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
NEC       -      Nepal Eastern Canal
NZIDB     -      Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
O&M       -      Operation and Maintenance
WUG       -      Water Users' Group



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Main Canal                -    supplies water to the whole irrigation system
Main Secondary Canal    -    supplies water to 4 or more branch secondary
canals
Branch Secondary Canal  -    serves about 200-600 ha
Tertiary Canal            -    serves about 40-50 ha
Field Channel             -    serves about 10 ha
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NEPAL
THE NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
STAGE II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Government of Nepal
Amount:              US$14.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed project would upgrade and increase the
capacity of the existing Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) irri-
gation system and extend the development of its command
area which was begun under the ongoing Birganj Irrigation
Project (Cr. 373-NEP) hereinafter called Stage I. The
proposed project would include the improvement of NEC's
remaining length (52 km) beyond that restored (27 km)
under Stage I; protection of NEC against flood damage;
further development of the NEC command's irrigation
distribution system; drainage network and canal service
roads in 12,700 ha, and improvement of those constructed
in 16,000 ha in Stage I, thus completing irrigation
infrastructure throughout 28,700 ha; pilot schemes for
privately-owned community tubewells, waterlogging control,
low-cost all-weather roads and micro-hydroelectric devel-
opment; an expansion of the intensified agricultural ex-
tension and training scheme started in two Districts under
Stage I; and the provision of technical services including
consultants. The project would increase agricultural
production and employment opportunities for the 216,000
inhabitants in the NEC command area and improve agricul-
tural practices and productivity in six Districts in the
Terai.
A possible risk associated with the project would be
that waterlogging could eventually occur in low-lying
areas of the NEC command area. The project provides for
monitoring of the watertable so that corrective action can
be taken promptly. The project faces no other risks
beyond those normally associated with irrigation projects.



Estimated Cost                                        Local   Foreign    Total
of Project: 1/                                     -US$ millions equivalent-
Civil works and buildings             4.5       3.1       7.6
Equipment and vehicles                  -       2.8       2.8
Technical services                    0.2       0.9       1.1
Project establishment                 0.9       0.3       1.2
TOTAL BASE COST                     5.6       7.1      12.7
Contingencies
Physical                              0.6       0.6       1.2
Price                                 1.1       1.5       2.6
Subtotal                            1.7       2.1       3.8
Land acquisition                      0.5        -        0.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  7.8       9.2      17.0
Financing Plan:                                      Local   Foreign    Total
-US$ millions equivalent-
IDA                                   4.8       9.2      14.0
Government                            2.6        -        2.6
Agriculture Development Bank                               -
of Nepal                            0.1        -        0.1
Farmers' Contribution                 0.3       _         0.3
Total                               7.8       9.2      17.0
Estimated IDA                                 US$ millions equivalent
Disbursements:       IDA FY             1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual             1.5    3.7    4.2    3.4    1.2
Cumulative         1.5    5.2    9.4   12.8   14.0
Rate of Return:      22%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2067a-NEP dated September 18, 1978.
1/   Includes taxes and duties (US$0.1 million equivalent).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the equivalent of US$14.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage II Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 1873a-NEP) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on March 21, 1978. The principal findings of the Memorandum are described
below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income in 1977 was estimated at $120, and health and education
standards are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth
is less than 44 years, infant mortality exceeds 200 per thousand, and adult
literacy is only 19%. Population in mid-1976 was 12.9 million, of which over
90% lived in rural areas. Both birth and death rates are high, keeping popu-
lation growth at 2.1% a year.
4.         The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
65% of GDP and almost 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the small industrial
sector, which comprises about 4% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials.
However, about 25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-
agricultural activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important
of these, estimated to engage over 1 million people and comprise about 7% of
GDP. They provide basic consumer goods in the many small, isolated markets
where such goods would otherwise not be available.
5.        The landlocked, isolated location of Nepal and its extremely rugged
topography have severely constrained the country's development. Nepal is far
removed from sources of supply of many development goods anA access to export
markets, which makes development more costly and uncertain than in most
1/   Part I of this Report is substantially identical to Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a pro-
posed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the Sunsari=-Mlorang Irrigation
and Drainage Development Stage I Project (Report No. P-2325-NEP of
May 11, 1978).



-2-
countries. The inaccessability of much of the country compounds these prob-
lems and limits the rate at which development activities and the expansion
of social services can be undertaken.
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic and
administrative infrastructure. Under these circumstances, initial development
efforts necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation for future devel-
opment. It was inevitable that, during these early stages, growth would remain
slow and that, as a result, there would be little if any increase in per capita
income. However, four successive development plans passed with little shift
in emphasis or improvement in per capita incomes and living standards. The
Fifth Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) was to become the turning point; emphasis was
to shift away from heavy infrastructure towards quicker-yielding investments
in directly productive activities, and towards the provision of social services.
Investment in primary infrastructure would be highly selective, and kept in
line with the country's near-term ability to exploit it. Infrastructure
directly supporting other development activities would continue to receive
priority.
7.        To some extent the objectives of the Fifth Plan are being achieved.
Overall public investment has been close to targets, and investment is begin-
ning to be reoriented. However, GDP growth is well below the 4-5% annual
growth rate envisioned in the Plan, mainly because of poor agricultural per-
formance. Favorable weather in 1975/76 led to a record cereals crop, and GDP
was estimated to have grown by 4-5%. However, a poor monsoon resulted in a
5.5% drop in cereals production in 1976/77, and overall economic growth of
only about 1% resulted. In 1977/78, it again appears that adverse weather
will limit growth in GDP to no more than 2%.
8.        In the external sector, overall performance continues to be good.
Foreign exchange reserves in September 1977 stood at US$144 million, 16%
higher than a year earlier, and at the equivalent of about 10 months of im-
ports. But the rise in reserves has occurred in conjunction with a large and
increasing trade deficit. Imports have been growing under the impetus of the
Government's development programs, while exports, principally rice (almost 50%
of total exports) and jute (about 15%), declined. However, increased tourism
earnings and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal serving in the
British or Indian army) brought about a significant improvement in the current
account. Tourism earnings accounted for 22% of total convertible foreign
exchange earnings in 1976/77 and have displaced Gurkha remittances as the
largest single source of convertible foreign exchange.
9.        Despite increasing receipts from tourism and remittances from
abroad, improvement in the trade balance remains critically important.
Imports, particularly development goods and raw materials, are bound to rise
steadily; however, prospects for exports are not promising. Prospects for
rice, the largest export, are not favorable due to declining surpluses at
home and a comfortable supply situation in India.
10.       The Government has recently reformed the trade and payments system
by eliminating the broken cross-exchange rate vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar and



Indian rupee (by revaluing the Nepalese rupee against the dollar by 4.3% and
devaluing against the Indian rupee by 4.3%) and by abolishing the Export
Exchange Entitlement scheme. In its place, a dual exchange rate has been
established that offers premium exchange rates, and hence incentive, for trade
with overseas countries. Certain development goods can be imported at sub-
sidized rates.
11.       The recent signing of new trade and transit treaties with India
should help improve conditions for foreign trade. The transit treaty allows
the transit of goods to and from Bangladesh, and the expansion of existing
port facilities for Nepal in Calcutta. The new trade treaty provides for
improved access of Nepalese goods to the Indian market.
12.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
poor growth of agricultural production which is failing to keep pace with
population growth. Over the period 1967-77, cereals production grew at an
average annual rate of only 1.8% against an annual increase in population of
2.1%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of this
increase; average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Malnutrition is acute
in the Hills, which contain only one-third of the country's agricultural land,
yet close to two-thirds of the population. Population density on agricultural
land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh, under even less favorable
natural conditions. Cultivation has been pushed up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land, and average yields have actually declined. Food availability
for the average family has dropped to less than the equivalent of 225 days
minimum subsistence needs a year. Because they have little to trade except
their labor, one-third of the inhabitants of these areas migrate seasonally
to the Terai plains and northern India for food and work. Since the mid-
sixties, an estimated 400,000 have migrated permanently; there are signs that
this exodus is accelerating. Family planning services which could help miti-
gate this crisis are weak. Although they are available in most of the larger
towns, they are only just beginning to be extended into outlying rural areas.
These efforts are being hampered by the inaccessibility of most of the popu-
lation; mounting a program on the scale needed will require much more manpower
and funds.
13.       While the average-sized farm in the Terai is only 1.7 ha, it is
still four times as large as that in the Hills. The small surpluses produced
by the Terai farmers have been the basis for Nepal's rice exports. However,
these exports have been steadily declining, from about half a million tons in
the early sixties to only about 100,000 tons in 1977/78. This has been the
result of production lagging behind population growth and, more recently, the
relative decline in export prices resulting from good crops in India in
combination with poor harvests at home.
14.       Agriculture thus has the highest development priority in Nepal, not
only because of its central economic role, but also because of the pressing
need for food in the Hills. However, only the Terai presents opportunities
for establishing market-oriented farming in the near future; agricultural
development in the Hills will have to concentrate on meeting subsistence needs.
With the exception of the Kathmandu Valley, farmers in the Hills are extremely



-4-
poor; hence, low-cost means of raising production will have to predominate
initially -- improved agricultural practices, better crop selection, the use
of improved local varieties and, wherever possible, increased use of organic
fertilizers. The focus of agricultural development efforts in the Terai has
been on major surface irrigation schemes to increase cropping intensity. How-
ever, lack of adequate attention in the past to bringing development down to
the farm level has resulted in the full benefits not being realized. The
general lack of support services -- inputs, credit, extension and research,
and farm-to-market roads -- compounded this problem. However, recent major
irrigation projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are
addressing these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated
approaches. Nevertheless, research and extension activities need to be
strengthened further. Research activities must concentrate on adapting
promising crop varieties to the many different micro-climates, while orga-
nization of extension activities and training of extension agents must be
improved to ensure the delivery of extension advice to farmers.
15.       Although agriculture must occupy a predominant position in Nepal's
development strategy, important opportunities exist in other directly produc-
tive sectors, including tourism and industry. Tourism is one of the most
rapidly growing sectors of the economy. Tourist arrivals have risen from fewer
than 50,000 in 1971 to over 125,000 in 1977. But unless tourist services,
particularly air transport, are expanded apace, this growth must necessarily
come to a halt. Investment opportunities in large-scale industry are limited
by the extremely low purchasing power of the population, the inaccessibility
of much of the country, the country's remoteness from sources of supply and
markets abroad, and its poor endowment with mineral resources. Under these
circumstances, most private capital is invested in small agro-industries,
trade, tourism and real estate, where profits are more assured. Effective
promotion of agro-industrial investments would help promote crop diversifica-
tion by farmers and increase domestic value added. Similarly, improved mar-
keting arrangements both within Nepal and abroad, inputs supply and credit
availability could help expand production by cottage industries. There is
also potential in forest-based industries, based on controlled exploitation
of forest resources. At present, however, fuelwood needs are causing the
rapid depletion of forest resources in the Hills, contributing to the already
massive erosion arising from natural causes and forage depletion. Immediate
efforts in this sector must, therefore, concentrate on reforestation and water-
shed management. In the longer run, fuller exploitation of Nepal's vast water
resources could provide a basis for accelerated economic growth.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to undertake its development programs, considering the extreme poverty, low
degree of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenues have
grown at 16% a year since 1969/70, and revenues as a percentage of GDP have
increased from 5.0% in 1969/70 to about 7.5% in 1976/77. Over the same period,
the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in excess of
2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic position. 1/
1/   Average government saving in the least developed countries as a
whole is about -0.7%.



It wili be ditficult, however, to maintain the public savings rate because
current expenditures will have to start growing more rapidly than in the past
to allow for proper maintenance of roads and major irrigation schemes, and
the operating expenses of expanding social services.
17.       The narrow tax base limits the potential for generating increased
revenues through tax rate adjustments, but there is still considerable scope
for increasing the contribution of agriculture, and improving tax administra-
tion. Effective implementation of the recent agreement with India to improve
control of unauthorized trade along the long common border would constitute an
important step in this direction.
18.       In view of the limited prospects for additional resource mobiliza-
tion, foreign aid remains the decisive factor in Nepal's development. Foreign
aid has increased rapidly during the 1970s. In the next two years, disburse-
ment of aid already committed will provide about $200 million. Present pro-
jections indicate, however, that there will be a residual financing gap of
$75 million. This will prove difficult to fill through projects assistance.
Donors need to consider financing a larger portion of the local costs of pro-
jects, increasing commodity assistance, and providing sector aid.
19.       As important as the need for additional financial assistance is
the need to boost further absorptive capacity. Donors have responded through
project-related technical assistance, and more recently, through efforts to
strengthen the development administration capacity in certain key sectors.
To assist in the overall coordination of financial and technical assistance
efforts, the Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976; the Group has met twice at
plenary meetings to discuss overall external assistance needs as well as
to discuss and coordinate strategy at the local level in Kathmandu.
20.       As of December 31, 1977, official foreign debt amounted to $299 M.
Although utilization has been slow in the past, disbursements are beginning
to accelerate rapidly. Debt service was about $2.2 M in 1977 or equivalent
to about 2% of exports of goods and services. In view of the accelerating
pace of development, external public debt is expected to rise and, based on
the trend in recent years, may reach about $450 million by 1980, of which
approximately 50% could be in IDA credits. The total debt service ratio by
1980 is, however, projected to remain below 5%. Debt service to the Bank
Group alone would be less than 2% of exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
21.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. In the fol-
lowing eight years, 16 additional credits were approved, bringing total IDA
assistance to Nepal, through FY78, to US$161.5 millicin equivalent, net of
cancellations. In view of Nepal's many development needs, this assistance
has been for projects in a wide variety of sectors. Five of these sectors
account for 81% of IDA credits by amount: irrigation (28% for 3 projects);



-6-
power (16% for 1 project); telecommunications (13% for 3 projects); highways
(12% for 2 projects); and water supply and sewerage (12% for 2 projects).
The remaining 19% of IDA assistance has been for one project in each of the
areas of rural development (5%), settlement (4%), technical education (4%),
tourism (2%), technical assistance (2%), and industrial development financing
(2%). The proposed credit would be the first in FY79, bringing the total
amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to US$175.5 million equivalent, net of
cancellations. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first
investment in Nepal ($3.1 M) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of August 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays
in the implementation of these projects, particularly during the initial
periods. These delays have been largely due to Nepal's limited technical and
managerial capabilities. In order to assist Nepal in coping with this con-
straint, considerable technical assistance is being given by Bank Group staff,
including our Resident Mission in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the
rate of disbursements is being realized. During FY78, $11.3 M were disbursed
compared to $12.8 M disbursed during the entire previous seven years. There
is, however, substantial scope for further improvement.
22.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for, and total receipts of, external assistance.
The international community has persistently shown considerable interest in
Nepal's economic development and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a
bottleneck. The main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been
Nepal's limited absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation
and implementation. The Bank is assisting the Government in project prepara-
tion through the Technical Assistance Credit and by acting as Executing Agency
for a number of technical assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year
Program. The Bank Group has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity
through its role in organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 19).
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in rural development, irrigation, forestry and power
is under way.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Nepal's economy is largely dependent on the agricultural sector.
As mentioned in Part I above, farm production and related activities account
for about 65% of GDP, 93% of employment and 80% of all exports, mostly
foodgrains. Nepal has a gross area of 14.1 M ha of which only about 2.3 M ha,
is cultivable. Paddy accounts for 51% of the total cropped area; maize 19%;
wheat and other cereals 16%; and other crops including oilseeds, pulses, jute,
potatoes, sugarcane, tobacco and horticultural crops 14%. Development of
agriculture has been slow. Over the last twelve years, growth in production



-7-
has been barely above the rate of population growth. Moreover, it has come
primarily from area expansion, the further scope for which is limited. The
largest area increases are in wheat (10% p.a.) and potatoes (5.4% p.a.),
mostly in the Terai. Yields of all crops have either stagnated or declined
over the last 12 years, reflecting (i) extension of cultivation into areas of
marginal productivity; (ii) soiL denudation; (iii) the lack of technology
suitably adapted to local conditions, particularly for Hill agriculture; and
(iv) institutional constraints such as lack of trained manpower.  In view of
the limited scope for further area expansion, future growth in agricultural
production will depend essentially on yield improvement. This is attainable,
particularly in the Terai, provided there are effective extension services,
and reliable provision of irrigation and adequate drainage at the farm level.
25.       Agricultural Institutions.  Apart from the Ministry of Forest,
the Government has three Ministries dealing with agriculture: the Ministry
of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation (MFAI); Ministry of Land Reform; and
Ministry of Water and Power. Irrigation projects are the responsibility of
the MFAI which includes the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteo-
rology (DIHM), the Department of Agriculture (DA), and the Department of Food
and Agriculture Marketing Services. MFAI also has overall responsibility for
a number of public sector corporations which include the Agriculture Input
Corporation, Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), Nepal Food Corpo-
ration, and the Groundwater Development Board. In general, like many other
government agencies, agricultural institutions suffer from lack of trained
staff.
26.       Agricultural Extension, Research and Training.  The DA's Division of
Agricultural Extension and Training is responsible countrywide for operation
of agricultural extension services through offices located at the regional,
district and panchayat (village) levels. The extension staff's main functions
are to provide farmers with advice on improved farming practices, to introduce
high-yielding improved varieties, and to guide farmers in the selection
of suitable cropping patterns.  Their effectiveness is greatly hampered by
inadequate training and the lack of communication, transportation, and housing
facilities at the village level.
27.       The DA carries out research, mainly in food crop production, in a
large research complex near Kathmandu and in twelve smaller stations dispersed
throughout Nepal. Some agricultural research stations are also national crop
development headquarters 1/. The United States Agency for International Devel-
opment (USAID) has supported research in cereal improvement based on high
yielding varieties of wheat from India and rice from the Philippines. The
United Nations Development Programme, in conjunction with the International
Maize and Wheat improvement Center, is also assisting with a high protein
maize program. The linkages between research and extension activities in
Nepal are poor, however, and the products of research are not well dissemi-
nated to the farmers.
1/   The national development programs for paddy, maize, jute and wheat have
their headquarters at Parwanipur (Birganj Irrigation Project, Narayani
Zone), Rampur, and Taraharia Agriculture Stations, and Bhairawa Agriculture
Farm (in Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project), respectively.



- 8 -
28.       With technical assistance from USAID, the Institute of Agricul-
ture and Animal Science of Tribhuvan University is responsible for formal
agricultural training of extension workers. The Institute also provides
vocational training for agricultural teachers and in-service training for
leading farmers.  Recently, research stations have also been involved in
training activities for extension workers and farmers. This training is
generally inadequate, however, due to the shortage of experienced instructors
and training facilities.
29.       In order to alleviate these problems of extension, research and
training the Government is preparing a project which would modify the present
field practices throughout the country along the lines of the Training and
Visit System. The link between research and training would be strengthened
through better organization, regular staff training and technical back-
stopping.
30.       Agricultural Inputs Supply.  The Agriculture Input Corporation
(AIC) is mainly responsible for the marketing of fertilizers, seed, pesti-
cides, and agricultural equipment. The AIC distributes these inputs to
cooperative societies, village committees or other public organizations,
and private traders, fixes retail prices for all inputs, and is responsible
for input stGrage. Sales have, however, been sporadic due to poor distri-
bution, and the Government has recognized the need for more timely supply
of basic inputs and services at the village level. The Sajha (cooperative)
movement was established in 1975 to deal mainly with these deficiencies on a
countrywide basis and provide for sales of agricultural and general merchan-
dise as well as marketing and credit services for members.  On the average,
each Sajha serves about 2-3 panchayats and is assisted by a paid manager, who
is trained and seconded by ADBN.
31.       Agricultural Credit.  The ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit available to Nepalese farmers.  ADBN provides short, medium and long-
term loans to individual farmers, cooperatives and corporate agents engaged
in agricultural production. Farmers owning 6 ha of land or more can go
directly to ADBN for seasonal loans, while those owning less can obtain such
loans through Sajha cooperatives. Current annual interest rates vary between
2% and 14% depending on the category of borrower and purpose. ADBN's perfor-
mance has been satisfactory. Until recently, commercial banks in Nepal did
not lend for agriculture. Although they were directed in 1974 to invest at
least 50% of their total deposit liabilities in agriculture, their current
involvement in agricultural lending is still quite small since they have yet
to develop the institutional structure that would enable them to serve the
needs of agriculture on a substantial scale. Lending from private sources is
widespread, providing about 80% of total agricultural credit, often at much
higher interest rates.
32.       Marketing and Transportation.  Domestic marketing services in Nepal
are not well developed, due to the lack of roads, telecommunications systems,
and warehouses. Since the late 1960's, several public sector organizations
have been established for marketing major farm products. These include the
Nepal Food Corporation, Rice Export Companies, National Trading Ltd., and
Jute Development and Trade Corporation. Officially, export of farm produce



-9-
is exclusively the responsibility of these organizations which also fix ex-
port and domestic prices. In practice, however, since the Indian border is
open, extensive free trading occurs, for which no reliable data is available.
Irrigation
33.       Water Resources Utilization.  Nepal has only about 1.3 M ha suitable
for surfaSe irrigation while its abundant water resources (approximately 150
billion m annual average stream flow) could irrigate at least five times as
much. Exploitable groundwater resources, which are largely concentrated in
the Terai, could provide tubewell irrigation for about 0.4-0.6 M ha. Utiliza-
tion of water resources is limited by a number of factors: (i) there are few
reliable sources of perennial surface water for year-round irrigation except
for the eight major rivers 1/; (ii) these large rivers are costly to develop,
particularly for relatively small command areas which are typical in the
Terai; (iii) heavy sedimentation in riverbeds creates considerable problems
in construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; and
(iv) power supplies to energize tubewells are severely restricted in extent
and amount. At present, only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the potential
irrigable area) are provided with some form of irrigation, of which about
150,000 ha are under public schemes.
34.       Irrigation Development.  Before the launching of Nepal's First
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been under-
taken by the Government. The main reasons were limited financial resources
and shortage of trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the
11,000 ha Chandra Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift,
and other traditional methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of
154,000 ha, mainly in the Hills. During the First and Second Development
Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65, respectively), the Government's irrigation pro-
grams were concentrated on the building of large canal projects in the
Kathmandu Valley and the Eastern and Mid-Western Terai. In the Third Plan,
however, a program was launched for construction of minor irrigation projects,
to encourage greater farmer participation and to expand irrigated areas
rapidly. Due to poor investigations and construction, many of these projects
fell short of expectations, which resulted in a poor response from farmers.
The Government then reverted in the Fourth Plan to a policy of constructing
medium-sized canal projects, mainly in the Terai. In keeping with the priority
given to quick-yielding investments, the emphasis has shifted in the Fifth
Plan towards the completion of on-going schemes and new investment in pro-
jects with short gestation periods and high returns (para 6 above).
35.       Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development.  The Bank
Group is at present involved in four on-going irrigation projects in Nepal:
(i) The Birganj Irrigation Project, Narayani Zone (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 M, of
April 18, 1973) was designed to improve and upgrade the Nepal Eastern Canal
and 28,700 ha of surface irrigation and to develop a 2,700 ha pilot tubewell
scheme. Because of a 50% cost overrun during the 1974/77 period, in November
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak), Bagmati,
Kosi and Kankai rivers.



- 10 -
1977 IDA and the Government agreed to reduce the scope of the surface irriga-
tion component to 16,000 ha. After a slow start due to procurement and staff-
ing difficulties, project implementation has steadily improved. All civil
works and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is progres-
sing satisfactorily. The present number of staff is adequate to design and
supervise the works. Irrigation operations were started in the tubewell area
in 1976 and in 1,700 ha of the surface irrigated area in 1977. By June 1978,
regular supplies of irrigation water were distributed in about 5,500 ha.  As
a first step, water charges of NRs 100 per ha per crop have been levied in
the tubewell area where 95% of the beneficiaries have paid the charge which is
higher than that levied anywhere else in Nepal. This represents about 60% of
the cost of operation and maintenance (O&M). As of FY1978/79, the Government
is collecting water charges in the surface water irrigation area at the same
rate. The project is expected to be completed by mid 1979. (ii) The Bhairawa-
Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M, of July 9, 1976), the
first full-scale tubewell project in Nepal, provides for construction of 63
deep wells, detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area, and agricultural
supporting services. The project had a slow start due to delays in procurement
of equipment, but is now almost back to schedule. Drilling of tubewells is
proceeding with existing rigs until new rigs are delivered later this year.
Construction of the irrigation and drainage networks has started for seven of
the twenty wells already completed. (iii) A component under the Rural Devel-
opment Project (Credit 617-NEP, US$8.0 M, of April 30, 1976) is providing
assistance for improvement of small-scale hill irrigation schemes and devel-
opment of a high lift pump scheme on Batar plateau in Nuwakot District;
progress is satisfactory. (iv) The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage
Development Stage I Project (Cr. 812-NEP, US$30.0 M, of July 7, 1978) is
designed to upgrade and improve the Chatra Canal System, commanding about
66,000 ha, as well as to develop the irrigation network to the farm level in
about 6,400 ha within the Chatra Canal System command area. The project is
expected to become effective in October 1978. The Bank Group also acts as
Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed Major Irrigation (Far West Region)
Project, which seeks to prepare three irrigation projects in the Mahakali Zone
(12,000 ha), Bheri Zone (Babai) (13,500 ha) and Seti Zone (Jamuar Nala)
(13,500 ha). Reconnaissance reports have been produced, and feasibility
studies on the first two projects are due for completion by the end of 1978.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.        The proposed project was formulated to develop the 12,700 ha within
the Nepal Eastern Canal command area which were deleted from the Birganj Irri-
gation Project (hereinafter called Stage I) in November 1977 (para 35 (i)).
The project consultants for Stage I assisted the Government with preparation
of the engineering component of the proposed project. Other project components
were identified and prepared by the Government with assistance from missions
in the course of supervision of Stage I. The project was appraised in
September 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in August 1978.
The Nepalese delegation was led by Mr. C.D. Bhatt, Acting General Manager,



- 11 -
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board. A report entitled "Nepal -
Staff Appraisal Report - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Stage II
Project" (Report No. 2067a-NEP, dated September 18, 1978) is being circulated
to the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the project,
special implementation actions to be taken by the Association and special
conditions of the credit are given in Annex III.
37.       The Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) flows eastward from the Nepalese-Indian
border at Pipra to the Bagmati River (Map 13537) and has a net command area
of 37,400 ha in Parsa, Bara and Rautahat Districts. The NEC and its secondary
canals were built under a December 1959 agreement between Nepal and India con-
cerning the use of waters from the Gandak River. Under the agreement, the
Indian State of Bihar constructed the Don Branch Canal (DBC) in India to con-
vey water from the Gandak at Tribeni in Bihar to Pipra, and also constructed
the NEC, with part of its irrigation distribution system, in Nepal. A supple-
mental agreemint was made in October 1971 which specified that India would
supply 24.1 m /sec (850 cusecs) of water to the NEC at all times except when
the DBC was closed for necessary repairs and maintenance. The NEC system was
handed over to Nepal in June 1976. It was partially opened for trials in that
year and was run at 90% of full capacity on an emergency basis in 1977 when
the monsoon was late and rainfall sporadic.
38.       Since its construction, the NEC system has suffered from extensive
wastage and poor distribution of water and untimely closures. In 1972 the
concept of the irrigation system was changed from that of supplementary irri-
gation during the wet season for the paddy crop, to that of a perennial system.
However, the canal lacks the regulating structures needed to control a greater
range of flows throughout the year and the distribution system is incomplete,
since construction of distributary canals was terminated at 0.6 m /sec capacity.
Escape capacity is inadequate to prevent excessive water levels within the
canal during the monsoon, and the banks have failed to withstand external
flooding from streams crossing the NEC in many places. Yields of both paddy
and wheat have been reduced in some areas from prolonged inundation as a
result of inadequate surface drainage, and transportation has been seriously
affected during the wet season due to lack of cross drainage under canal
service and village roads. These defects are being rectified over 27 km of
the NEC and in 16,000 ha of its command area under the Stage I project.
Project Objectives
39.       The proposed project would continue the upgrading of the existing
NEC and extend the development of its command area with the objectives of:
(a) improving the amount and reliability of water deliveries to farms and
establishing farmers' confidence in the system; and (b) accelerating agricul-
tural development and increasing farm incomes and rural employment. To
achieve these objectives, the project is designed to: (i) improve the oper-
ational control of the NEC as well as its security against damage by floods;
(ii) enhance the capability of the distribution system to deliver regulated
water supplies to groups of farms each covering 7.5 to 10 ha; (iii) improve



- 12 -
drainage of farmlands and roads; and (iv) intensify agricultural extension
and training in Parsa, Bara and Rautahat Districts, as well as in the Rupan-
dehi, and the Sunsari and Morang Districts containing two other on-going IDA
assisted irrigation projects (para 35).
Project Description
40.       The main components of the project are:
(a) improvement of 52 kilometers of the NEC and its service road;
(b) development of the irrigation distribution system down to the
farm level in about 12,700 ha;
(c) improvement of canal service roads and drains in about
28,700 ha;
(d) a pilot, privately-owned community tubewell scheme
including 25 tubewells in about 800 ha;
(e) field trials for waterlogging control, improved water manage-
ment, crop diversification and a pilot microhydroelectric
development scheme;
(f) intensified agricultural extension for six Districts in
the Terai (including the project area);
(g) provision of operation and maintenance equipment and vehicles;.
(h) buildings for project agricultural and engineering operations and
training, staff housing and agricultural storage;
(i) technical services, including project consultants, and aerial
photography and mapping for further development of the NEC
command area; and
(j) provision for training and training facilities for engineering,
agricultural and administrative staff.
Organization and Implementation
41.       In accordance with the Government's established practice, and for
effective project implementation, the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Board (NZIDB) was created in 1973 to execute the Birganj Irrigation Project
(Stage I). The NZIDB has become increasingly effective in the implementation
of Stage I and would carry out the proposed project. The NZIDB is a semi-
autonomous government agency. It is chaired by the Secretary to the Ministry
of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation, with members including representatives
from the Ministries of Finance, Water and Power, and Land Reform, and from the
Planning Commission. Other members are the Director-General of the Department
of Agriculture (DA), the Director General of the Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM), the Regional Directors of the DA and DIHM



-13 -
(the Central Region), and the General Manager of the NZIDB who is also its
Secretary.
42.       The General Manager (GM) of the NZIDB would also assume responsi-
bility for Stage II. Located at Birganj, he would look after the day-to-day
management of project implementation. Assurances were obtained that a GM
with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association would be in place throughout implementation of the project
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). Under the
GM there are four divisions in the field: Engineering, Agriculture, Admin-
istration and Finance. The Engineering Division (ED), as a whole, would be
responsible for carrying out the civil works of the project and for mainte-
nance of the canal network down to tertiary outlets. It would also prepare
maintenance schedules of all canals, structures, and tubewells with the
assistance of the project consultants (para 45) and furnish to the Associa-
tion, not later than July 31 in each year, its operation and maintenance
budget for the NEC system (Section 4.03(a) of the draft DCA). The ED would
also prepare a comprehensive operation and maintenance (O&M) manual to be
transmitted to IDA in draft by June 1, 1979, and in final form by October 1,
1980 (Section 4.03(b) of the draft DCA). The Agriculture Division would be
responsible for agricultural extension and training in the three districts
containing the Narayani Zone project area. The Administration and Finance
Divisions would continue to be responsible for general administration,
accounting, finance, procurement and inventory control of equipment and
supplies. In view of the advanced stage of implementation of Stage I, NZIDB
would be capable of carrying out the proposed project with minor additions to
its staff. Assurances have been obtained that NZIDB would be staffed during
implementation in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.04 of the draft DCA).
43.       In the project area, southward flowing rivers, streams and natural
drains divide the 12,700 ha of the NEC command into six self-contained dis-
tribution blocks. Within each block, a secondary and tertiary canal system
would be built. Within the command of each tertiary canal, serving groups
of farms covering about 40 to 50 ha, a Water Users' Group (WUG) would be
established as has been done successfully under Stage I. A leader and
deputies, elected by the farmers for each WUG, would be responsible for
working with project staff in mobilizing farmers to construct field channels
and drains, and to operate and maintain the irrigation system below the
tertiary outlet. As in Stage I, water distribution within the outlet command
would be based on timed rotational deliveries, proportional to the size of
individual holdings. In accordance with a program developed in conjunction
with the District Agricultural Development Officers and WUGs concerned, the ED
would release water down to the tertiary outlets. Water would be released
regularly to areas commanded by each tertiary canal only when the WUG has been
formed, field channels constructed, and satisfactory distribution routines
formulated (Section 4.04 of the draft DCA). As a result of experience gained
during implementation of Stage I, the capacity of field drainage in the
surface area would be based on a run-off criterion of 3 liters/sec/ha. Drains
built for the 16,000 ha of the Stage I area with about one-third of this
capacity would be modified as necessary. Additional drainage controls and
culverts would also be built in Stage I area to bring them up to the standards



- 14 -
established for Stage II. The project would include a pilot microhydroelectric
plant at Tilawe barrage in order to test the costs and benefits of such a
small scale approach to rural electrification.
44.       Directly north of the 2,400 ha Stage I public tubewell development
area, the project would install 25 privately-owned community tubewells to
irrigate an 800 ha area: 5 deep tubewells to irrigate about 120 ha each
(about 40 to 80 farms), and 20 shallow tubewells to irrigate 10 to 20 ha each
(4 to 8 farms). The public tubewell scheme under Stage I demonstrated the
feasibility of this type of irrigation in the project area. NZIDB and ADBN
staff have carried out preliminary surveys to locate communities of farmers
who would be willing to take loans under the proposed pilot privately-owned
community tubewell scheme. The Stage II pilot scheme would test the feasibil-
ity of privately financing such an effort. For each tubewell under the
proposed project, a WUG would be formed and financing would be arranged for
the well through the ADBN. This would relieve the Government of a large part
of the cost of tubewell construction and enable replication with little burden
on public finances. During implementation of the project, the WUGs would
mobilize farmers to construct field channels and drains in the tubewell
distribution systems. However, the O&M responsibilities for the first two
years of operation would be carried out by the NZIDB in order to familiarize
farmers with the O&M of each tubewell. After that, each WUG would control its
tubewell scheme with occasional supervision and O&M assistance from the
project staff and the ADBN.
45.       The engineering consultants employed for the Stage I project (Nippon
Koei, Japan) are expected to be retained for Stage II to ensure continuity and
avoid delay in starting up the project; they have agreed to renew their
contract. Their input, totalling about 75 man-months over 4 years, compared
to more than 300 man-months during Stage I, would be progressively reduced
each year. They would provide in-service training, advice, and guidance to
project engineering staff in project planning and scheduling; design of works;
preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluation; modern construction
techniques; construction quality control; and monitoring of progress and
costs. The appointment of engineering consultants, with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01 of the draft DCA).
46.       Agricultural extension and training would be provided under the
proposed project to farmers in Parsa, Bara and Rautahat Districts, as well
as in Rupandehi, Sunsari and Morang Districts, which would cover all three
on-going IDA-assisted irrigation projects in the Terai, besides the proposed
project. In view of the promising results obtained from the pilot scheme of
agricultural extension on the lines of the Training and Visit System intro-
duced in Parsa and Bara Districts under Stage I, the same system would be
expanded to cover these six districts. Additional staff, operating under
carefully regulated schedules, would enable extension to reach about 290,000
farm families. The Regional Directors of Agriculture would be responsible
for the technical content of extension programs in the six Districts, while
execution of these programs and their administration would be vested in the
GM and Project Managers of the project Boards. Coordination of extension
activities with agricultural input and marketing needs, as well as irrigation



- 15 -
development, in the six Districts would be synchronized through existing
District Coordinating Committees. Extension activities, administered by
each project Board, would be organized, planned and supervised by the agri-
cultural officers appointed by their respective project Boards. While
agricultural officers would be administratively responsible to their Project
Managers, they would report on technical matters to their respective Regional
Director of Agriculture. Experience gained through the application of agri-
cultural extension in the pilot scheme under Stage I would be passed on to the
other IDA-assisted projects through the Department of Agriculture.
47.       About 15 man-months of consultants' services would be provided to
assist in designing and implementing the intensified agricultural extension
and training programs in the six Districts, and to provide essential instruc-
tion in training and communication techniques to staff who would become
trainers themselves. Agricultural consultants would be appointed by April 30,
1979, with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.02(b) of the draft DCA).
48.       In addition to the on-the-job training provided by the consultants,
formal local and foreign training of agricultural, administrative and engi-
neering staff would be provided. The Government would carry out the training
program in accordance with a plan satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.05 of the
draft DCA). The proposed project would be completed by June 1982.
Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$17.0 million equivalent,
including contingencies, about US$0.1 million in taxes and duties, and US$0.5
million in land acquisition. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$9.2 million equivalent, about 54% of the total project cost. The proposed
credit of US$14.0 million would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of
the project plus US$4.8 million equivalent of local cost, amounting to about
83% of total project costs net of taxes and duties. Local cost financing
is recommended in view of the country's very limited capacity to generate
resources (para 18 above). The Government would contribute US$2.6 million
equivalent in local costs, with the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
(ADBN) and farmers providing approximately US$0.1 million and US$0.3 million,
respectively. The total cost of consulting services is estimated at $850,000
or about $9,500 per man month, including all overheads, travel, per diem, etc.
50.       Cost of the tubewell component (excluding transmission lines, main
distribution channels and access tracks) is estimated at about US$200,000
equivalent and would be financed by the farmers through ADBN. The down pay-
ment by the farmers (including the value of their own labor), is estimated at
10% of cost to be borne by the farmers, leaving 90% to be financed through
ADBN. The Government would provide from the proceeds of the credit about
80% of the ADBN financing requirement, with the balance to be provided from
ADBN's own resources. The loans would be made to individual farmers, or to
the WUG responsible for each tubewell, with the amount of repayment to be made
by each individual farmer in proportion to the size of his holding in the
tubewell command area. The terms of these loans would be the same as ongoing



- 16 -
rates for such loans in Nepal: 1/ (a) 11% p.a. for a period of 20 years,
including a grace period of 2 years, for a deep tubewell; and (b) 11% p.a.
for 7 years, including a grace period of 18 months, for a shallow tubewell.
The Government presently lends to ADBN at a minimum interest rate of 6% p.a.
with a maximum repayment period of 25 years.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.        In the light of the experience gained under Stage I, civil works con-
tracts would be let on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding
(LCB) because they are small in size (the largest is .o.t US$200,000 equiv-
alent), are scattered geographically, and can only be carried out in about
six months of the year. LCB would be in accordance with government procedures
which are being used under Stage I and are satisfactory to IDA. International
competitive bidding for civil works was tried under Stage I but was unsuccess-
ful due to lack of interest from foreign contractors under similar conditions.
In the community tubewell scheme, NZIDB would arrange for the Electricity
Department to extend the transmission lines to the tubewells and for the
construction of the main distribution channels and access roads in time to
serve the tubewell scheme; lesser channels would be constructed by farmers.
All engineering buildings would be constructed by contracts, to be awarded
after LCB, under the supervision of project staff. Agricultural extension
buildings in the Rupandehi District and the Sunsari and Morang Districts would
be built under contract under the supervision of engineering staff of the
on-going Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project and the S-.,nsari-Morang Irriga-
tion and Drainage Development Project, respectively. The extension buildings
in the area of the proposed project (Parsa, Bara and Rautahat) would be built
under contracts supervised by NZIDB engineering staff. These contracts would
be awarded after LCB.
52.       Equipment and vehicles would be procured through international com-
petitive bidding (ICB). Items which cost less than US$25,000 equivalent each
and are not suitable for ICB would be purchased in accordance with Government
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association, up to
US$250,000 equivalent in the aggregate. A preference of 15% or the appli-
cable duty, whichever is less, would be granted to local manufacturers.
53.       Disbursement would be made against:  (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported equipment, materials, vchiclc3 and spare parts;
(b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment, materials, vehicles
and spare parts manufactured locally; (c) 75% of total expenditures for other
equipment, materials, vehicles and spare parts procured locally; (d) 100% of
expenditures for consultants' and technical services and training; (e) 90% of
total expenditures for civil works and buildings; and (f) 55% of expenditures
for total agricultural extension staff cost for the six Districts, which would
1/   The average annual rate of inflation during the last three years was
about 6.7% and there are indications that the ratio of inflation could
increase slightly in the future. The historical price index in the
Terai for the last twelve years shows an annual rate of about 7%. Thus,
an annual rate of inflation of about 7% has been projected for the next
three years.  This would result in a rl -_ate of interest of 4%.



- 17 -
be equivalent to 9U% of incremental extension staff costs. A condition of
disbursement of the pilot community tubewell component would be that the
necessary financial arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, have been made between
the Government and ADBN (Schedule 1 para 4(b) to the draft DCA).
Cost Recovery
54.       Under the Nepal Irrigation Act of 1967, the Government has the
legal authority to levy water charges on users of publicly constructed sur-
face and groundwater irrigation works. In the parts of the Stage I area
where irrigation has been delivered to fa r , the prevailing water charge
is NRs 100 per ha per crop, equivalent to an annual charge of NRs 180 per
ha at the present cropping intensity.
55.       Surface Irrigation:  The capital cost of surface irrigation works
provided by the project on 12,700 ha would amount to NRs 8,000 (US$667) per
ha, and annual O&M costs after project completion would be about NRs 90
(US$7.5) per ha. Therefore, an annual water charge of approximately NRs 900
(US$75) per ha (in 1977 prices) would cover O&M costs and recover 100% of
capital costs over 50 years at a 10% interest rate. With an average annual
incremental farm income of NRs 2,200 per ha and project rent of NRs 2,000 per
ha at full development of the project, an annual water charge of NRs 900 per
ha would account for 41% and 45% of the incremental income and rent, respec-
tively. The prevailing level of water charges (equivalent to NRs 180 per ha
per year at full development based on projected cropping patterns) would cover
the O&M cost of the works and contribute NRs 90 towards capital costs. An
immediate increase to NRs 900, which would insure full recovery of capital
costs, would impose a heavy burden, because about 65% of farm households in
the project area are projected to have incomes below the national average
even after the project. Furthermore, a fivefold increase in water changes
could only be practically introduced over time. The Government has indicated
that it aims at recovering as much as possible of the capital costs of the
irrigation systems with a view to increasing its resources available for
investment in development projects. Consequently, assurances have been
obtained that, starting one year after completion of the surface irrigation
distribution works in each block, the Government will establish and collect
from beneficiary farmers water charges sufficient to (i) cover operation and
maintenance costs as they are incurred, and (ii) recover in progressive steps,
over a reasonable period of time, the capital expenditures for these works to
the fullest extent possible, taking into account farmers' ability to pay,
incentives for their participation in the project, and the need for public
revenues to finance other development activities (Section 4.02(a) of the draft
DCA). For this purpose, the Government would review water charges at intervals
not exceeding three years, in consultation with the Association with a view to
adjusting said charges as necessary (Section 4.02(b) of the draft DCA).
56.       Tubewell Irrigation:  Under the community tubewell scheme, the
farmers would finance the capital costs of the tubewells, with the exception
of transmission lines, main distribution channels and access tracks which
would be funded by the Government as an incentive to the farmers to invest
(Section 3.06 (a) of the draft DCA). The total cost of each tubewell is
estimated to be about NRs 988,000 (US$82,300) for a deep tubewell and



- 18 -
NRs 105,200 (US$8,800) for a shallow tubewell. With capital cost to the
farmers of NRs 326,000 (US$27,200) for a deep tubewell irrigating about 120
ha, the annual capital and interest payment by the farmers at the interest
rates described above (para 50) would be about NRs 350 per ha (US$29). The
annual capital and interest payment for a shallow tubewell irrigating 10 ha
would be about NRs 400 (US$33), against a capital cost to the farmers of NRs
16,100 (US$1,340). Including an annual O&M cost of NRs 300 per ha for a deep
tubewell and NRs 380 per ha for a shallow tubewell, annual cost to the farmers
of deep and shallow tubewells would be about NRs 650 (US$54) and NRs 780
(US$65) per ha, respectively. For both the deep and shallow tubewells,
projected annual net incremental income per ha would be NRs 2,700 and project
rent would be NRs 2,500. Annual cost to the farmers of a deep tubewell would
represent 24% of net incremental income. The corresponding percentage for a
shallow tubewell would be 29%. These costs would be within the farmers'
ability to pay. Although the annual cost to the farmer would be much higher
than in the case of surface water irrigation, tubewell development may still
be sufficiently attractive since the farmer in the proposed tubewell area has
no access to surface water supply and his only alternative would be to con-
tinue rainfed farming. The farmer would also be assured of reliable water
supply because its source, in contrast to surface water irrigation, would be
completely under his or the WUG's control. There are thus reasons to believe
that, despite the high annual payments in relation to net incremental income,
farmers will find the participation attractive. There is also the possibility
that they may not. For that reason, the groundwater component has been kept
small, as a pilot program.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The proposed project would accelerate agricultural development in
the project area through provision of a reliable irrigation water supply to
farmers now heavily dependent on rainfall, and through improved drainage
as well as intensified agricultural supporting services. The benefits of
upgrading the works in the Stage I area to the standards of those to be con-
structed under Stage II have not been quantified due to their interdependence
with the other works under Stage I. In the Stage II area, agricultural pro-
duction is expected to improve substantially with an annual increase at full
development of 20,200 tons of foodgrains, 14,800 tons of sugarcane, 300 tons
of oilseeds and 4,300 tons of vegetables. About 2,000 additional full-time
agricultural jobs would be created under the project, mostly to the benefit
of the landless laborers and smallholders (less than 1 ha) which account for
about two-thirds of the approximately 70,000 farm population in the Stage II
area. Non-farm employment is expected to increase by about 1,000 man-years
per annum at full development, and the project would also generate about 1.7
million man-days of construction employment over the four-year implementation
period. The project would alleviate poverty in the project area; average per
capita income of the farmers within the project area would increase from
NRs 940 (US$75) to NRs 1,500 (US$120), equivalent to the national average.
At present, 80% of farm households in the project area have incomes less than
the minimum subsistence level of about NRs 780 (US$65); this proportion would
be reduced to 30% under the project.



- 19 -
58.       The project would also help to alleviate the shortage of trained
staff, a major constraint on agricultural development in Nepal, through
the provision of technical assistance and training programs in various
agricultural disciplines. The experimental community tubewell scheme, if
successful, would pave the way for more intensive development of groundwater
through private investment in the Terai, thus reducing the cost of such wotks
to the Government. An environmental benefit of the project, resulting from the
improved drainage, would be the reduction of ponding of waste water in the
locations in the project area that are malaria-prone.
59.       The economic rate of return of the proposed project is estimated
at 22%. Within this, the economic rates of return for the deep and shallow
tubewells, which account for about 4% of the total project cost, are estimated
at 33% and 21%, respectively. Sensitivity analysis shows that even with the
extreme case of an increase in construction cost of 50%, in conjunction with
a decrease in projected crop yields by 10% and a decrease in output prices of
20%, the rate of return would still be 10%.
60.       A possible risk associated with the project would be that the
watertable in low-lying areas of NEC command might eventually rise to such
high levels as to reduce dry season crop yields. To counter this, the pro-
ject includes monitoring of the watertable to provide early warning of such
a problem so that counter measures can be taken promptly. In the event that
temporary waterlogging occurs on a significant scale, the introduction of
cash crops with a lower water requirement than paddy may have to be encouraged.
A feasibility study of processing and marketing of such crops, such as ground-
nuts and soybeans, is to be carried out under the on-going Sunsari-Morang
Irrigation and Drainage Project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be that engineering
consultants with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association have been
appointed (para 45). A condition of disbursement for the community tubewell
component would be that financial arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
have been made between the Government and the Agriculture Development Bank of
Nepal (para 53).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 25, 1978



- 21 -
ANEX I
TABLE 3A
NEPAL               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------------          ---- ----------
NEPAL                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       140.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      40.0                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           AFGHANISTAN   BOLIVIA         TURKEY**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      50.0       70.0      110.0              110.0       290.0       510.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             9.3       11.3       13.1               12.3/a       4.9        35.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       86.0       80.0       93.0                19.0         4.0        46.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       243.0      284.0      328.0                87.0        16.0        65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.3       44.7       42.9                48.7        44.4        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           27.8       24.6      20.3                27.6        19.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..    200,0-300                          *-       154.0       153.0 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.6       40.6       43.6                37.8        45.3        54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0       3.0        2.9                 3.4         2.8         2.6/b.c
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  1.5       2.1        2.1                 2.2/b       2.6         2.5
URBAN                                 6.5        3.9        5.4                 5.2         4.2         4.9/d
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            3.4        4.1        4.8               10.7        32.3        38.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       39.9         ..       40.5                43.2        41.9        41.7
15 TO 64 YEARS                       57.0          ..                          54.2        54.6        54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.1        ..                            2.6         3.5         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8         ..        0.8                0.8         0.8         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         ..o                           ..         1.0/a       1.1 /e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      86.5      378.6
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..       17.0                  ..          ,          8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOJSAND)         4300.0      4900.0         .                  ..      2300 0   14000.0 /f
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         94.6         94.4         ,                 ..        65.o/b    63.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..         ..                 ..        16.0        11.9  a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..        36.oc       32.8 .
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        ..                  ..        59. 0/c     60.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..         4.0         2.9
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                  ..        13.0CE       9.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        53.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            72000.0   49770.0 o   36550.0             14680.0      2300.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..   35600.0 b 17430.00 /a          21080.0      2730.0      1770.0 .
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          7000.0.L  6750.0    6630.0                    ..       490.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         92.0       94.0       95.0 .              78.0        76.0       112.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              51.0       52.0       50.0U/              58.0        46.0        78. ,0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0lb    11.0         9_24b              11.0        14.0/d      22.OL/
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..         ..                 ..         7.4        14.7Lk
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       10.0       26.0       59.0/c              21.0/c     68.0        109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       6.0       9.0       14.0-/cd             6.0       21.0        28,0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                               -
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0                12.0       10.0         11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      0.2        6.0       22.0/c.e            4.2        11.0Qe       14 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 10.0       14.0      19.2                10.0        40.0        55.D0a
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.0/C       ..        ..                  ..          ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      52.0/4        ..      14.0Lf              97.0/d        ..        66.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 30.0/c        ..        ..                  ..          ..       40.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER T-OU POP)           1.0        5.0         6.0               6.0           ,8 89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU OOP)            0.2/d      0.4        --                 3.0         4.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAl.)            1.0        6.0        0.0              32.0       160.0       247.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..         ..         ..                0.1         1.0         0.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 22 -
ANNEX I
unlas  otherwise noeCd, (e.g. iNP per capita ond population), d.ra for 1960 refer to cy year bertwen 1959 and 1961, for 197D hatwse  1969 and
1971, and for Most Recent Estimate between 1973 ond 1976.
*  Over the past forty years, Turkey's ecomooy ha. growu  at a respectable pace, strting  from a very  a11  ba.    In sn doing the country haa
formulated objective. cnd faced problems cnd constraints which, to considerable degre, are quite similar to those Nepal is now facing. Among
others, these include incre.sing output froe the productive  ectors, agriculture cnd industry, accelerating ieport substitutions, diversifying
and increasing exports.,  boilizing resources, improving education, health, training and employment opportunities, lend reform and improving
inco.e distribution.
NEPAL         1960    /.  1965;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Capital and nain cities only;    /d  1963.
1970    Ia  Personnel in government services;    /b  Including nidwiven.
HOST RECENT ESTIMATE       /   Including nidwives and assistant nurses;    lb  1974 data;    Ic  1976-77;    /d  Lower s-condary (Grade 4-7)
only;    /!  Upper secondary (Grade 8-10) only;    /f  Urban only.
AFGhANISTAN  1970    Ia  Population dots for Afghaifston relore  to tho fis-l yarw hich startc  on 21 March;    /b  Diffe-rn-e between UN rate of
notucal Increase  nd Bank population growth rate due to different population entimates;    /c  Public education only;
Id Percentage of pouulation without safe with supply.
BOLIVIA       1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor  force;    /b  As percentage of labor force in employ.ent;
/c  Populotion;    /d  1964-66;    /.  Beginning 1969 tho duration of goneral  -econdary education was reduced from  6 to 4
Years.
TURKSEY       1970    /a  1967;    /b  tocludes 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and
over to total civilian labor force;    /f  Civili-n labor force;    /A  Including peak season agriculture underemployment;
/h  Diposable income (1969);    /i  Including assistant nurses and midives;    /I  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;   /1  Persons
sin years and over who tell the census takers that they can read and write.
913 September 11, 1976
Db'FITNITIONS OF SOCIAL TNDIICATORS
Lond Arcs (thou I-'7)                                                                         Po2nclation per nursing person - Population diridec by number of practicing
Total - Total surface ores coroprising land area  nd inland waters.                             male sod feIale graduate nu.ocs, "trained" or "certified` nurse, and
Agric -  Most recent esctinte of agric-lturrl area need temporarily or perm--                   a.miliary personnel with training or eaperiorte.
nently for crops, pastores, narket & kitnhen gardens or to lie follow.                      Popelation peo  hospital bed - Population divided by nesober of hospit.] beds
available in public and pri-tei general snd specialoe.d houpitl and
GNP per caoito  (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                      rehabilitation centers; e cludes nursing homes and sotsbli.hlente  for
calculated by boa conoorsioe method a- World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                      ouatodial and preventive care
1960; 1970 sod 1977 data.                                                                   Per capita supply of calories (% of r,ogiremoncf) - Computed from  energy
equivalent of n t food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statistics                                                                 avsilsble supplies comprise domestic production, imports less emporte, and
Population (fid-Yeer million) - AS of July first:  if not  vJilable, -verege                    chnges in stock; net eupplies exclude snimal feed, seeds. quantities need
of two end-year eetbmate; 1960, 1970 and  1977deta.                                           in food procesaing and looses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FAo based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
P.p.lotlon density - per          k,usre Io  - Mid-ysear popultion par square kilometer         *rinSg eironmental temperature, body seightes, agoe and sex distributions of
floo hoccares) of totl are,                                                                   population, and allowing 10  for wasro at household level
poenlotion density-per nquare In of soric. land - Computed so above for                       Per os,it ouppnly of protein (grae  per day) - Protein contest of per ropitc
egriculcora1 land only.                                                                       net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined ashore; eqaice-
ments for all countrieu established by USDA Economic Research Sorvices
Vital statintics                                                                                provide for a mioimua  ellowance of 60 graes of total protein per d,y, and
Crode birth rtte per thousand  average - Annual live births per thousand of                     20 grase of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grmo. should be animal
.fd-yrer population; ten-year ar-1thtetir averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are lever than those of 75 grems of total protein
otd fion-ys  average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                 and 23 green- of soles1 protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
boade death rate per thousand  av rsee - Annuol deaths psr tho.ssod of mid-yesr                 in the Third World rood Survey.
opulation; t n-year sritebti  averaged ending in 1960 and 1970 end five-                    Per canita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year everage ending in 1975 for most recent eatimtte.                                         derived frm anImal  and ples in gres_  per dsy.
Inraut sortolity rate f/thou) - Annusl deothe of infants under one year of oge                Death rats  (/thou) sRe.  1-4 - Annual deaths per thous.nd in age group 1-6
Per thousand live birtha.                                                                     years, to children in this ag  group; suggested as an indicator of
lAif enpettancy at birth (yrs) - Avorege number of yeare of life remaining at                   malnutrition.
birth;  unu11y five-year  -vergen ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countrie-                                                                               Education
Gronn reproductlon rate-uverage numb r of live deaghtere a woman will hear                    Adlusted enrollment ratio - pri:  ry ho,l -                   onenllment of all ages as per-
tn her nurmal reproductie period if she experiences present  ge -specific                     cenege of pditry  ;ehol-ege populstion; inludes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rotes; usully five-year everages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                      but adjuted for different lengths of primry eduestion; for countries with
f-r deoeloping  ountrzie.                                                                     vniivr-al education,  sroltnt my exeed 100% since some pupils are below
Popution  grywt  rate (I) - totl - Compound  -nnoel growth rates of mid-year                   or shove the official school age
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjuated anroll=mr r1tio - oneondary school - Computed as abov; secondary
Population growth rate (7  - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                         education requires at least four years of spprnved primary fetructien;
popolation; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                  provides general, v .ation.l or tea her training intrructioo- for pupils
dota among cuntries,        rf 12 to 17 years of ag; correspond nce courses are ge -ersl'  excluded.
Urban populatlon (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 Year- of schooling provided (first end necond lo-eis) - Total 'cas-         F
defInitir-a of urban areas m-y affect comparability of dsto anong countries.                  schooling; at  -eondsry level  io-ationol instruction cay be partially or
completely ocluded.
Axe structure f(ep  ent) - Childrin (0-14  ars)  working-age (15-64 years)                    Vocational enrollment (I of secondary) - Iccatioal instftotion  include
and reTri-d (45 years and orer) as percentages of mid-year population.                        technical, inducrial or ocher progracs which oproae indeprndeutly or s
Abedependency ratic - Ratio of population under 19 and 65 and over to those                     departmenct  of uecondary institutions.
of ogen 15 ibroogh 64.                                                                      Adult iiteracv race (7) - Lit-rat  adults (nble to tred aod  rcite) as per-
flcuoomit dependency ratoo - Ratio of popul-tion under 15 and 65 end oer co                     u    ge of total edlt populatio- oled 15 y,oru or-  ccnt
the  bloc  force in age groop Of 15-64 years
LLmily ylaolna-utceptots (cumulative, thou) - Camulative number of acceptors                  Hou-inB
of birth-cortrol de vcas under auspices of notional f1 illy planning program                Persons cer room (urban) - Average somber of poc-Iln per room  in occupied
=in-c icceplon.                                                                               conventional dwellings in urban ores.; dwellings r-olde non-p-rmenenc
Fanily elonnin - .. ns (7% of mried               Percetogen of married women of                structures and unoccupid parts.
child-bearing ago (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 marrid                 Occupied dwellings without piped water fl) - Occupied coventiona1 dwsilingn
_oen in uan  ag goroup.                                                                       in urban end rural areas without inside or outnide piped water fociliti.s
as pereentoge of o11 occupied dwellings.
Employment                                                                                    Access to electricitY (7, of all dwellinge) - Cone ntonal dwellings with
locl lube  force (,hou.and) - Economically attive persons, including armed                     electricity in living quartets as petren  of total dwellings to urban and
frccs and unemployed but eocluding houu-wi-re, students, etc; definition-                    rurol areas.
i_ caritf_ countri.. are not cosparable.                                                    Rural dwelling s coneted to electricity (7) - Conpuctd as sbo   for rural
l,huc forc.  So agriculture (2) - Agrl-icutr-l lebor force (in forming, forestry,               dwellings only.
hunting end fishing) as prcentage of total labor forc.
tUcefpol-d (7 of labor force) - Unemployed or  cooslly defined so persons who                 Conhumption
aroo ,lreand willing co toke o job, out of a job on a given day, remained out               Radioreceivers foot thou cop) - All types of receivera for radio brosdcasts
of r job, and aeeking work for apecIfied minimum period not t ce ding .e.                    to general public per thousand of population;   _cluds unlicensed receivers
ccck; moy not be comparable between  countries due to different definitions                   in countries and in years when regletrotion of radio asts was In erfect
of --ccplo..d cnd source of dto, eg. , e_ploy_ent offcce staititcs, sampie                    detc  for recent yesrs may not be comparoble since noset  ountris abolished
socooyu, c-p.polory uneploymnt inn-r-cc.                                                       liensing.
Pessenger te-e (per thou pop) - Passenger cars compri.e moter cars seating
Siccoor dfntrfl,utinn - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                    len  thsn eight persons; eocludes ambulancee, hearss and ailtnary
eccrivd by nlthont 5R,, richent 20%, poorest 20f, and pooreet 40% of house-                   vehicle.
[o, ir                                                                                     Electrictry fkwbEyr per top) - Annual consmpction of industrial, comercisl,
public and pri-ae elertricily in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
nIt crrb. I c of fund ownerhhlp- Percetage- of land owned by wealthiest 107,                     based on production data, with ur allovance  for lonoes in grids but sllow-
,.od pv  res  lOT/ of land owners.                                                            in  for bmports end export- of eectricity.
N wh-rioc (be-/yr cer cue) - Per r-pita annual nonsumption in kilgragsm
llera 4h aol trlft     -prn                                                                     nayti-ted from domeutic prodrction pls net imports of newsprint.
Populoi,oc per pby1ifdan - Population divided by number of practicing
pbvslcfoue quaiified trom a cedlcul nefrool o atunivr ricy level.



23 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977   US$120 /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974-75                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prives)
US$ Mln.      %                             1965-75
(,NP at Market Prices                         1,424      100.0                            2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                       150       10.5
Gross National Saving                           100        7.0
Current Account Balance                      -   25    -  1.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                           104        7.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                           154      10.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971-72                                                  Value Added
Value Added                Labor Force /b           Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %           Mln.        %           Us             %
Agriculture                                     698       68.0         4.6        95.8           152         71
Industry                                         92        9.0        0.1          2.1          920        430
Services                                        237      23.0          0.1         2.1        2.370      1,107
Total/Average                      1,027      100.0         4.8       100.0           214        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.                    Rs. Mln.      Rs. Mln.    Rs. Man--
1974/75      % of GDP       1975/76       1976/77      197778-
Current Receipts                      1,008.2        (6.8)        1,115.7       1,322.9      1,724.6
Current Expenditure                     513.0        (3.5)          626.9         832.1        938.5
Current Surplus                         495.2         3_3           488.8         490.8         786.1
Capital Expenditure                     967.3         6.5         1,238.8       1,498,3      2,148.9
External Assistance (net)               415.0         2.8           457.5         540.8      1,103.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973     1974      1975      1976    1977
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                                 1,493    1,850    2,027    2,458   3,144
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            319       416       532       480      711
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           459       702       810       783      863
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                       12.4     11.1      11.1
General Price Index (1973 = 100)                      187.9    218.4    255.4    261.7   264.2
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                    11.2      16.2      17.0       3.7      0.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                     28.1      31.3      27.9    - 9.8    48.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          14.7      52.9      15.4    - 3.3    10.2
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a GNP per capita data based on World Bank Atlas Methodology (1974-76 basis).
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
77 Provisional
not available



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TRADEI PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974/75-1976/77) a/
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77                                                                   USL  MI'1.    7.
(Millions us$)
[.pirL.s, K.o.b. b/                            80.1      98.3       93.9     Foodstuff & raw materials                                      69.7       82.6
Imports, .i.f. bj                            189.0    156.3    166.9        Manufactures                                                   10.3       12.2
All other commodities                                          4.4         5.2
Trade Balance                           -108.9    -58.0    -73.0
Total                                                    84.4      100.0
Sdr,ices, nec                                  26.1      23.2       39.4
of which:  Tourism                           15.7      17.1      23.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31,1977
Tra-secrs, act                                 28.5       27.7      30.8                                                                  USC  Mln.
oL which:  Private Remictasees               14.8      18.5      21.6
Indian Excise Refund              7.9       8.8       9.4      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                 298.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
CGrrenL A.coane Balance                  -54.3    - 7.1    - 2.8        Total outstanding & Disbursed                                 298.5
Official Grants                                 19.3     70.0       18.5
Official Capital, seL                           8.3       12.1      16.3     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 less than 2.5/ c/
PritaLe Capital, net                          -14.6       9.6    -10.3
Public Debt, inc. guaranteed
Change in Reserves (- Increase)           41.3    -34.6    -21.7        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (mid July)                     112.5    120.3    143.0        Total outstanding & Disbursed
Nut Reserves                                  109.8    114.9    137.8
sTcl and Related Materials                                                   IBRD/IDA LENDING, (July 1978)          (Million USL):
Imports of which:  Petroleum                 14.6      16.9      18.8                                                                  IBRD        IDA
Exports of which:  Petroleum                  --        --        --
Outstanding & Disbursed                                                  27.0
Undisbursed                                                 ----         90.2
RATE OF EXChANGE                                                             Outstanding incl. Ondisburse17
From October 1975 tL;roughO                                                                                              117.3
Through October 1975   March 20, 1978                   Since March 20, 1978
US$ 1.00 = NRs 10.56   us$ 1.00 = NRs 12.5              us$ 1.00 = NRs 12.00
NR  1.00   L US$ 0.095   NR  1.00 = US$  0.08           NR  1.00 = Us$  0.083
a/ Customs basis.
b/  Payments bas)i
s/  Ratio of Debt Service to Emports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
.ot applicable                                                                                                  South Asia Programs Department
Sept. 12, 1978



- 25 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1978) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                   Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose            IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                        7.0
373        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  6.0      1.4
397        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5         4.3
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8      6.5
505        1975      Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                  6.0      5.3
600        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           26.0    19.2
617        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development           8.0      7.5
654        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                 9.0      7.7
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance        3.0      2.9
704        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0      7.9
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0      4.0
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway             17.0    16.6
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education         5.7      5.7
799        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5    14.5 /c
812        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                 30.0    30.0 /d
Total Outstanding                          161.5 /b
Total Undisbursed                                  133.5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFG INVESTMENT (as of August 31, 1978)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year        Obligor        Type of Business                 Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel         Hotel                       2.70   0.40       3.10
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.70   0.40      3.10
Total Undisbursed                                 -    0.40      0.40
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c   Signed on August 22, 1978, but not yet effective.
vd  Signed on July 7, 1978, but not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, in field surveys and in
procurement. Civil works are being completed in three irrigation blocks and
contracts have been awarded for another three. Construction of tubewells is
almost completed in the groundwater areas. Irrigation operations started in
1976 from nine tubewells, and in 1977, in the first surface irrigation block.
Due to a 50% cost overrun, a reduction in the project area to include only
six blocks (out of the original total of twelve) has been agreed. The project
should be completed by mid-1979.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
early 1980, some twelve months behind schedule.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Design work is complete and all but one of the major contracts have
been let. Project implementation is about two years behind the original
schedule, primarily due to delays in letting the contracts. A management
team of two experts provided by the United Kingdom has been assisting the
Water Supply and Sewerage Board and three other specialists are being re-
cruited. Work is now progressing satisfactorily.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation is two years behind schedule. While equip-
ment has been procured and land clearing has started, overall progress remains
slow. This is partly due to lack of management and planning capacity by
project agencies and partly to change of Government priorities and land use
policies. The latter are expected to lead to a request to reduce project
size by about 40%. The Government and IDA have agreed upon land clearing
targets for the 1977/78 season. Some progress has since been made. However,
if these targets are not attained and if progress proves unsatisfactory,
restructuring or discontinuation of this project may have to be considered
both by the Government and the Association.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$26.0 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The main civil works contract has been awarded and construction
work started in December 1977. The contract for hydromechanical equipment is
being negotiated, while contracts for all other major plant and equipment have
been awarded. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding taxes and
duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the estimate of
US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs are due to a
number of factors, principally design changes as a result of further geological
investigations, the poor response for the civil works contract and the
risk factors inherent in a major project which is remotely located. These are
reflected in higher bid prices and implementation delays which are adding to
costs. In addition, the recent appreciation of the Japanese yen, in which
substantial part of the costs of equipment and engineering services are being
paid, has increased the US dollar cost of the project. During a cofinancier's
meeting in Tokyo in September 1978, pledges were made covering the most part
of the foreign exchange cost overrun. Discussions are continuing with a view
to bridge the remaining financing gap.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned pro-
ject actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements are lagging
due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applications.
Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound and
practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported and
understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project pro-
posals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites and
plans for most district construction projects have been completed and con-
struction started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms under
a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in the
project area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may



- 28 -
ANNEX II
hinder project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more
efficient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers as
part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed UNDP
technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator, the
Irrigation Advisor, and the advisor to the Project Evaluation Unit have taken
up their posts.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project authorities have been established, the main consulting
firm has been appointed and has started work, and equipment procurement has
been started. Drilling of tubewells is in progress, using two rigs loaned by
the Department of Groundwater Development. Twenty production wells have been
completed out of the 63 to be provided under the project. Construction of
the irrigation and drainage networks has started for seven of the twenty
completed wells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Terms of reference and draft consultants' contracts for some
priority projects to be financed under the Credit have been made and others
are being discussed with the Government. Studies have been initiated for
river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project, national agricultural
extension, and cottage industries. Arrangements for initiating additional
studies are being made, while the selection of other priority projects is
underway.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and master plan updating
and final designs have been completed and feasibility studies are well under
way. A tariff specialist is being recruited, and the first tender, for water
meters, has been issued.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor took up his post in February
and the ODM-financed accounting and information systems advisor is being
selected. To date, subprojects for about $0.2 M have been approved by IDA.
Project approvals are proceeding slower than anticipated but are expected
to increase as a result of operational improvements introduced by the
advisors.



- 29 -                            ANNEX II
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is about 10-12 months behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training Program
is under review by the Government and ,..e ss1,ciu.   Seven of ten con-
tracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and three
contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise Road.
Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction are
expected to be finalized shortly.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
This Credit become effective only recently. However, good progress
towards implementation has already been made - a project implementation unit
has been established, and sketch plans for civil works, a physical implemen-
tation plan and equipment lists have been prepared. A team of educational
experts, financed by ODM, have begrn work i--. thc field and a program of
cooperation with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, has been started.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.0 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: November 20, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODM has formally approved the financing of the telex equipment and
the satelite earth station; arrangements for signing the agreement between
the two Governments are being made.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
October 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. Studies for major canal struc-
tural repairs, sediment control and river training are under way. Selection
of consultants for detailed engineering and supervision has been initiated.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
5 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
NZIDB and ADBN
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
March 1976 - June 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
August 24, 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 29, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
January 15, 1979
Section II      Special Bank Implementation Actions
Supervision mission would visit Nepal shortly after
signing of Development Credit Agreement to advise on
implementation activities.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Section III    Special Conditions
During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) the position of General Manager of NZIDB would
continue to be filled by a person with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA throughout project implementation
(para 42);
(b) the Engineering Department of NZIDB would furnish
to the Association, not later than July 31 in each
year, its operation and maintenance budget for the
NEC system (para 42);
(c) the Engineering Department of NZIDB would prepare
a comprehensive Operation and Maintenance Manual,
which would be transmitted in draft to IDA by
June 1, 1979, and in final form by October 1,
1980 (para 42);
(d) the project would be staffed approximately accord-
ing to the agreed schedule which would be revised;
as necessary, during implementation (para 42);
(e) water would be made available on a regular basis
to areas beyond tertiary outlets only when water
users groups have been formed, field channels con-
structed, and satisfactory distribution routines
formulated (para 43);
(f) engineering consultants would be appointed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (condition of
effectiveness, para 45);
(g) agricultural consultants with qualifications and
experience in extension and training satisfactory
to the Association would be appointed by April 30,
1979 (para 47);
(h) formal local and overseas training would be carried
out in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Association (para 48);
(i) financial arrangements satisfactory to the Associa-
tion would be made between the Government and ADBN for
providing loans for the tubewell component (condition
of disbursement on the tubewell component, para 53);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
(j) not later than one year after completion of the irri-
gation distribution works in each Block, the Government
would establish and collect from beneficiary farmers
water charges sufficient to cover operation and mainte-
nance costs as they are incurred and recover in progres-
sive steps, over a reasonable period of time, the capital
expenditures for these works to the fullest extent pos-
sible, taking into account farmers' ability to pay,
incentives for their particination in the project, and
the need for public revenues to finance other development
activities (para 55);
(k) the Government would review water charges, at regular
intervals, not exceeding three years, in consultation
with the Association (para 55); and
(1) transmission lines, main distribution channels and
access tracks would be constructed in time to serve
the community tubewell scheme at no cost to the bene-
ficiary farmers (paras 51 and 56).



IBRD 13527
Pro err areas                                                                                    NEPAL                                                         E h   ,5 0 z    i-; 0     r4ArC"0N L
R Rers &-strems                                                                                                                                                      f      A," *.t-anO    p Ma i
I-
_  Barrage                                             NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT                                                            :                         7
-    Control gso                                                                               Project Location 2
Railways                                                                                                                                                              I A
Z ,u _ -+  nternationall ho nd ~                     N           E          P         A          L                                              XA G e X 3
;   t  \T \s,<t=    -tf         ><:                :,,                 ;- .A.~~        ~~~~~                  T. KATHMANDU
#:
A,eo0                               ~\  ' 09 < D.-I.p-t Ao,ve ofA
?3                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   O
17,00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       r     ~     7
a ~~~~~~~~~2    16ROOO s ~O5






IBRD 13537
rToKot.nand|                                                                                                                           NEPAL                                APRIL 1978
<s.  CHIt t N A;                                    ;                                 w __    tA l,       _;,_$-~~ |                              \                                         Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  s~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Stage II
BAN&AOE9.     J                                          'S  -                                                                                                                                         GENERAL  PLAN
L4ACEtJ     ,    ',  ,  |E.mMain cont, Existing roods
tNDlA                                                                                                                                                                                                 Secondory rnnols              ,,-, Railway
Tilone    g    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Kalaito>  ~   ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   ~Rivers                                                 Tasiso  ie
8,                                        , B.                                  -I                                                                                                                             -.E                      .
Axuga!                                                                                   ~ ~~~~ ~~~                                    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  2  4 6  I    rudae   evlpet1   on
Y     ( -. l rs                                                                                                                       r                             --.- -. n-rn     a   -ounar-y
Entity tt~~~~~~~~  *               Milei                                   - ~~~~~~Enishing tobew11l
<>    t   <    h _ I  ; 0 i=; u A                                                                                                0                       4u .SXi 5 500-!'  > L5/
lNi2      B                 ock-L                                                                                                                                -  ---Blo  b-d- .s
Rock  "                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL EASyTEN CANAL
usc~~EE ;                                 RI       iRhoi      E9Z'S =5T                                                                                                                (.kJ)f
0 \fn:C =Ar~u                                                                                                  Block4   f   f   =    :   ;:   0   ::    :                                               '                    /             )J
;~ ~~ ~~~~~~Bol 0> ,n S                                                                        Blotf  ;   7/t?~ t  ettScktti'eJh#2hd0utae
Block
k ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~G                            SiA415                                                                                 I
mp  bepIe. eer pre"t.ebiy th rtel #Aeak, sue nt ,ffu#ryn  A.P v e he eseea
tire iwdy:of lb. eo =vt 'a etseihpt Te no t r0 aed                                     _.- th_
I s               ; far et j           ertoftheWdsev.     u t






iBRD 13648
._, 80.                                              82-                                                    84-                                                        B6'                                                       e8       May 1978
NEPAL
-s  t   C H I N A                                             NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE E PROJECT
I N D I A                                                                    sE8758 .. >9r., NATIONAL EXTENSION SERVICES DISTRICTS
Mountain Region                                              < Rivers
HIll Regon                                     Developmient Region Boundaries
Inner Terai                                     Administrotive  Zonal Boundaciries
Terai                                           District Boundaries
Kathmimndu Volley                   -.-         Internationadl Boundaries
LiIIZ:Ongoing Project
4AAM                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Project
Proposed Agricultural Extensono Component Districts
~~~' I  OHUTAN ~ ~       ~           ~            ~           ~            ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~             HI     
~~~~Ny~~~~~~~~~~>~~p                                                               AK
Tr ,nvcoflVERES
SUNOAIAeOANG JNIG   N   2AN
0e,                                                                     uS
J                                                                      RAYANI                      /P~~~~~~~em~~                                       ~0I0y 'Ofy~0t,0i0



