Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.- 2067a-NEP
FI'LE CO04Y
NEPAL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
STAGE II PROJECT
September 18, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  =  NRs 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                        =      3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                    =     0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                      =     2.47 acres
3             1.50 bighas
1 million cubic meters (Mm 3              810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per second (i /s)   =       35.31 cubic foot per
second
1 metric ton                        -     2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ADBN      -    Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal
AETD      -    Agriculture Extension and Training Division
AIC       -    Agriculture Inputs Corporation
AO        -    Agricultural Officer
ATO       -    Agricultural Training Officer
BLGP      -    Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
BRVPD     -    Bihar River Valley Projects Department
CE        -    Certainty Equivalent              -
DA        -    Department of Agriculture
DADO      -    District Agricultural Development Officer
DBC       -    Don Branch Canal
DDG       -    Deputy Director General
DIHM      -    Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
EPAD      -    Evaluation and Project Analysis Division
ED        -    Engineering Division
ERR       -    Economic Rate.of Return
EV        -    Expected Value
FGD       -    Farm Group Development
GM        -    General Manager
GOI       -    Government of India
HMGN      -    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
JT        -    Junior Technician
JTA       -    Junior Technician Assistant
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MFAI      -    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
NEC       -    Nepal Eastern Canal
NFC       -    Nepal Food Corporation
NZIDB     -    Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
OER       -    Official Exchange Rate
PLA       -    Panchayat Level Assistant
REC       -    Rice Export Co.
SAO       -    Senior Agricultural Officer
SATO      -    Senior Agricultural Training Officer
SCF       -    Standard Conversion Factor
SMIDB     -    Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Development Board
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
Stage I   -    Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone)
T&V       -    Training and Visit
WUG       -    Water Users' Group
GLOSSARY
Main Secondary Canal  -   supplies water to four or more branch secondary
canals
Secondary Canal        -   serves about 200-600 ha
Tertiary Canal         -   serves about 40-50 ha
Field Channel          -   serves about 10 ha
Paddy                  -   unhulled rice
Panchayat              -   village-level administrative unit
Nala                   -   natural drain
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ini the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .........................................                     1
The Development Scene .........................                   1
The Agricultural Sector .......................                   2
The Irrigation Sub-Sector .....................                   4
Project Formulation ...........................                   6
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ...................................                    7
Location ......................................                   7
The Nepal Eastern Canal .......................                   7
Birgani Irrigation Project (Stage I) ..........                   8
Natural Resources .............................                   9
Cultivation Practices .........................                  10
Agricultural Supporting Services ....           ..........       11
Socio-Economic Conditions .....................                  12
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................                    14
Project Concept ...............................                  14
Main Project Features .........................                  14
Detailed Features .............................                  15
Water Demand and Supply .......................                  19
Engineering Designs and Construction Methods ..                  20
Implementation Schedule .......................                 20
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS               ..........     21
Cost Estimates ................................                 21
Annual Expenditures ...........................                 23
Financing Plan ................................                 23
Procurement and Contracts .....................                 23
Disbursement ..................................                 24
Accounts and Audit ............................                 24
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................                   26
Project Boards ................................                 26
Field Management ..............................                 26
Organization of Community Tubewells ....           .......      27
Farmers' Organization .....           ....................28
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Nepal
in September 1977, comprised of Mr. C.M. Bolt and Ms. M.C. Nguyen (Bank);
and Messrs. M. Barber and R. Baskett (consultants). Mr. D. Benor and Mr. Ityel
(consultants) visited Nepal in March 1977 to prepare/appraise the agricultural
extension component in collaboration with Messrs. Karmacharia and Mishra
(consultants) of the Agricultural Projects Services Center, Kathmandu.



- ii -
Table of Contents
Page No.
Operation and Maintenance .....     ................  28
Agricultural Extension, Training and Research .        29
Staffing and Training ......     ...................  31
Monitoring and Evaluation .....     ................   32
VI.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES        33
Cropping Pattern and Yields ................          33
Agricultural Production ........................      34
Input Requirements .............................      35
Market  Prospects   ...............................    35
Prices   .........................................     36
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................................       38
General   ........................................     38
Farm  Budgets   ...................................    38
Distribution Effect ............................       39
Cost  Recovery   ..................................    40
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................       44
General .44
Production Benefits .44
Employment Benefits .44
Intangible Benefits .45
Environmental Effect .45
Economic Evaluation .45
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis .45
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................      47
LIST OF TABLES
3.1      List of Civil Works
3.2      List of Equipment and Vehicles
3.3      Consultant Requirements
3.4      Water Demand and Supply
4.1      Summary of Estimated Project Cost
4.2      Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
4.3      Estimated Cost of Agricultural Extension and Training
4.4      Estimated Annual Expenditure
4.5      Credit Allocation and Disbursement Schedule
6.1      Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
6.2      Crop Input Requirements
7.1      Farm Budget Analysis
7.2      Estimates of Project Rent
8.1      Economic Incremental Benefits
8.2      Economic Cost and Benefit Streams



- 3iii -
Table of Contents
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1      Construction Schedule
3.2      Implementation Schedule - Agricultural Extension and Training
5.1      Agricultural Extension Organization Chart
5.2      Project Organization, Stage II
5.3      Training Organization
6.1      Crop Calendar
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.      Draft Provisional In-Service Training Program
2.      Monitoring and Evaluation
3.      Basis for Economic Analysis
4.      Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13527 - Project Location
IBRD 13537 - Nepal Eastern Canal Command Area
IBRD 13648 - Agricultural Extension Services Districts






NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
The Development Scene
1.01      Nepal is confronted by a formidable set of development constraints.
The problems of a rapidly growing population (2.1% annual growth rate) and
limited exploitable resources are compounded by the difficulty of being land-
locked. The country is divided physically into three broad ecological zones:
the Mountains, the Hills, and the Terai, a northern extension of the Indo-
Gangetic Plain.  These three iones cover respectively 15, 68 and 17% of the
total land area of 141,000 km . The steep topography of most of the country
has severely limited the availability of land for productive farming. Per
capita production in the Hills has declined due to the extension of cultiva-
tion into marginal land. This has increased the rate of migration to the
Terai. Pressure on land has, therefore, been rising at an alarming rate,
and Nepal's grain exports, mainly produced in the Terai, have declined from
an annual 500,000 tons in the early 1960's to 200,000 tons during the last few
years. In 1977/78, Nepal's grain exports are expected to reach only 70,000
tons.
1.02      Population of Nepal is now estimated at about 13M, of which 96%
are in rural areas. About 60% of the population live in the Hills, which
contain only 10% of the agricultural land and where the density (930 persons/
per arable km ) is higher than in neighboring Bangladesh. In contrast, the
Terai is only one-third as densely populated as the Hills, the average farm
(1.7 ha) is about four times the size of that in the Hills (0.4 ha). Nation-
wide, poverty remains acute and per capita income is estimated at US$120 (in
1977 prices). Nutritional levels are low in the Hills and Mountains, but are
much higher in the Terai. In 1975, local production of major crops was suffi-
cient to maintain minimum subsistence standards 1/ for only about six months
in the Mountains and eight months in the Hills. In the Terai, production was
sufficient for about eighteen months. Health and education facilities are
generally inadequate. At present, only about 19% of the population are
literate.
1.03      The major objectives of the agricultural development efforts of His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) are to raise agricultural production, to
increase employment opportunities for the rural poor and to accelerate the
country's export earnings. Although long-term development plans aim at reduc-
ing income inequality between the Mountains, Hills and Terai, in the near term
1/   Estimated at 2,000 calories per person per day for the Hills and Terai,
and 2,200 for the Mountains because of higher altitude.



-2
there is a more urgent need to increase agricultural production, particularly
of foodgrains, to feed the growing population. Because of their isolation,
the Hills and Mountain areas present particular difficulties in the achieve-
ment of these short-term aims. The scope for agricultural development is much
more favorable in the Terai, where there is considerable irrigation potential,
communications are relatively well developed, and farm holding sizes are
sufficient to enable a marketable surplus to be grown. Meeting the pervasive
needs in the Hills calls for a different, more comprehensive approach. The
extreme poverty there requires lower cost solutions to agricultural develop-
ment and the provision of basic, vital social services. The vehicle for this
approach is becoming the integrated rural development program. IDA is under-
taking one project in two districts, and another covering additional districts
is under preparation. Other donors in the Nepal Aid group are undertaking
similar programs in other Hill districts.
The Agriculture Sector
1.04      Agricultural Development.  Nepal's economy is largely dependent on
the agricultural sector. Farm production and related activities account for
about 65% of GDP, 89% of the labor force and 80% of all exports, mostly food-
grains. Nepal has a gross area of 14.1 M ha of which only about 2.3 M ha
is cultivable. Paddy accounts for 51% of the total cropped area; maize 19%;
wheat and other cereals 16%; and other crops including oilseeds, pulses,
jute, potatoes, sugarcane, tobacco and horticultural crops 14%. Performance
over the last twelve years has been disappointing. Growth in agricultural
production, hardly above the rate of population increase, comes primarily from
area expansion, which is limited, rather than improvements in land productivity.
The most noticeable increases are areas under wheat (10% p.a.) and potatoes
(5.4% p.a.), mostly in the Terai. Yields of all crops have either stagnated or
declined over the last twelve years. This is due to (i) increasing cultivation
in areas of marginal productivity; (ii) soil denudation; (iii) the lack of
suitably adapted technology, particularly for Hill agriculture; and (iv)
institutional constraints such as lack of trained manpower. In view of the
limited scope for further area expansion, future growth in agricultural pro-
duction will depend virtually on yield improvement. This is attainable,
particularly in the Terai, provided there are effective extension services,
reliable irrigation supplies and adequate drainage at the farm level.
1.05      Agricultural Institutions:  HMGN has three Ministries dealing with
agriculture: Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation (MFAI); Ministry
of Land Reform; and Ministry of Water and Power. Irrigation projects are
the responsibility of the MFAI which includes the Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM), the Department of Agriculture (DA), and
the Department of Food and Agriculture Marketing Services. The Ministry also
has overall responsibility for a number of public sector corporations which
include the Agriculture Inputs Corporation (AIC), Agriculture Development Bank
of Nepal (ADBN), Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), and the Groundwater Development
Board. In general, like many other government agencies, agricultural insti-
tutions suffer from lack of trained staff and poor distribution of services
throughout the country.



-3-
1.06      Agricultural Extension Service:  The DA's Division of Agricultural
Extension and Training operates a countrywide agricultural extension service
through offices located at regional, district and panchayat (village) levels.
The extension staffs' main functions are to provide farmers with advice on
improved farming practices, to introduce high-yielding improved varieties
(HYV), and to guide farmers in the selection of suitable cropping patterns.
Their effectiveness is seriously hampered by inadequate agriculture training,
and the lack of communication, transportation, and housing facilities at the
village level. In addition, there is little coordination between research
and extension activities and, as a result, the extension service has little
to offer. A pilot agricultural extension scheme employing the Training and
Visit system (T&V) in Bara and Parsa districts in Nepal has demonstrated that
extension effectiveness can be improved through strengthening the organization
and the linkages with research (para 2.15). Based on similar concepts, HMGN
intends to reorganize extension services throughout the country.
1.07      Agricultural Research and Training:  The DA carries out research
mainly in food crop production in a large research complex near Kathmandu and
twelve smaller stations dispersed throughout Nepal. Some agriculture research
stations are also national crop development headquarters 1/. The United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) has supported research
in cereal improvement based on high yielding wheat from India and rice from
the Philippines. The United Nations Development Program, in conjunction with
the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, is also assisting with
a high protein maize program. With technical assistance from USAID, the
Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science of Tribhuvan University is respon-
sible for formal agricultural training of extension workers. The Institute
also provides vocational training for agricultural teachers and in-service
training for leading farmers. Recently, research stations have also been
involved in training activities for extension workers and farmers. This
service is generally inadequate, however, due to the lack of experienced
instructors and training facilities.
1.08      Agricultural Inputs Supply:  The AIC is mainly responsible for the
marketing of fertilizers, seed, pesticides, and agricultural equipment. The
AIC distributes these inputs to cooperative societies, village committees or
other public organizations and private traders, fixes retail prices for all
inputs, and is responsible for input storage. Sales have, however, been
sporadic due to poor distribution of services, and Government has recognized
the need for more timely supply of basic inputs and services at the village
level. The Sajha (cooperative) movement established in 1975 has been entrusted
with the task of undertaking country wide sales of agricultural and general
merchandise as well as marketing and credit services for its members. On
average, each Sajha serves about 2-3 panchayats and is assisted by a paid
manager, trained and seconded by ADBN.
1/   The national development programs for paddy, maize, jute and wheat have
their headquarters at Parwanipur (in the proposed project area), Rampur,
and Tarahara Agriculture Stations, and Bhairawa Agriculture Farm (in
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project), respectively.



-4 -
1.09      Agricultural Credit:  The ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit. ADBN provides short, medium and long-term loans to individual farmers,
cooperatives and dealers engaged in agricultural production. Farmers owning
6 ha of land or more can go directly to ADBN for seasonal loans, while those
owning less can obtain such loans through Sajha cooperatives. Current annual
interest rates vary between 2% and 14% depending on the category of borrower
and purpose. In FY76, overdues amounted to about 20% of loans outstanding.
However, ADBN's overall performance in its many responsibilities has been
satisfactory. Until recently the two commercial banks in Nepal (The Nepal
Bank and the Rastriya Varijya Bank) had not been lending for agriculture.
Although they were directed in 1974 to invest at least 7% of their total
deposit liabilities in. agriculture, their current involvement is still
limited. Lending from private sources is widespread, providing about 80% of
the total agricultural credit, often at much higher interest rates.
1.10      Marketing and Transportation:  Domestic marketing services in Nepal
are not well developed, particularly in the Hills, due to the lack of roads,
telecommunication systems, and warehouses. Since the late 1960's, several
public sector organizations have been established for marketing major farm
products. These include Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), Rice Export Companies
(REC), National Trading Ltd., and Jute Development and Trade Corporation
(JDTC). Officially, export of farm produce is exclusively the responsibility
of these organizations which also fix export and domestic prices. In practice,
however, since the Indian border is open, extensive free trading occurs, for
which no reliable data is available.
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.11      Water Resources Utilization:  Nepal has abundant water resources,
including major rivers with annual average discharges totaling 150 billion m
and capable of irrigating 6 to 8 M ha. However there are only about 1.3 M
ha of land suitable for irrigation in the country. Exploitable groundwater
resources, which are largely concentrated in the Terai, could provide tube-
well irrigation for about 0.4 to 0.6 M ha. The total irrigation potential
is therefore less than 2 M ha. Utilization of water resources for irriga-
tion is limited by several factors: (i) there are few reliable sources of
perennial surface water for year-round irrigation except for the eight major
rivers; 1/ (ii) these large rivers are costly to develop particularly for
relatively small command areas which are typical in the Terai; (iii) heavy
sedimentation in riverbeds creates considerable problems in construction,
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; and (iv) power supplies
to energize tubewells are severely restricted in extent and amount. At
present, only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the potential surface irrigable
area)are provided with some form of irrigation, of which about 150,000 ha
are under public schemes.
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak),
Baghmati, Kosi and Kankai Rivers.



- 5 -
1.12      Irrigation Development:  Before the launching of Nepal's first
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been undertaken
by HMGN. The main reasons were limited financial resources and shortage of
trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the 11,000 ha Chandra
Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift, and other traditional
methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of 154,000 ha, mainly in the
Hills. During the First and Second Development Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65
respectively), HMGN's irrigation programs were concentrated on building medium
sized systems (15-60,000 ha) in the Eastern and Mid-Western Terai. In the
Third Plan, however, a program was launched for construction of minor irriga-
tion projects, mostly in the Terai, to encourage greater farmer participation
and to expand irrigated areas rapidly. Due to poor investigations and con-
struction, many of these projects fell short of expectations, which resulted
in discouraging response from farmers. HMGN then switched back in the Fourth
Plan to a policy of constructing medium-sized irrigation projects, mainly in
the Terai. In keeping with the priority given to quick yielding investments,
the emphasis has shifted in the Fifth Plan towards the completion of on-going
schemes and new investment in projects with short gestation periods and high
returns, including groundwater development for irrigation by tubewells.
1.13      Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development:  The Bank
Group is presently involved in three on-going projects and a fourth which
has recently been approved by IDA. The Bank also acts as executing agency
for UNDP in the preparation of three further irrigation projects in the Terai.
The Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 M, 1973),
under construction since 1974, was originally designed to improve and upgrade
about 62 km of the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and 28,700 ha of its irriga-
tion command area, as well as to install a pilot, 2,700-ha public tubewell
scheme. In November 1977, IDA agreed to reduce the scope of the project, to
include only works covering 27 km of the NEC, 16,000 ha of the NEC command
area and the public tubewell scheme, so as to accommodate a 50% cost overrun
during 1974-77. After a slow start due to procurement and staffing difficul-
ties, project implementation has steadily improved. All civil works and
equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is well advanced.
The executing agency, the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board, is now
operating effectively. The present number of staff is adequate to design and
supervise the works. Irrigation operations were started in the tubewell area
in 1976 and in 5,500 ha of the surface irrigated area in 1978. The project
is expected to be completed by mid-1979 (para 2.04).
1.14       The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M,
1976), the first full-scale tubewell project in Nepal, provides for construc-
tion of 63 deep wells, detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area, and
agricultural supporting services. The project had a slow start due to delays
in procurement of equipment, but is now almost on schedule. Drilling of tube-
wells is proceeding with existing rigs until new rigs are delivered later this
year. Construction of the irrigation and drainage networks has started in the
areas commanded by seven of the 20 wells already completed. Power supplies
are adequate for operating these wells. A component under the first Rural



Development Project (Credit 617-NEP, US$8.0 M, 1976) is providing assistance
for improvement of small scale hill irrigation schemes and development of a
high lift pump scheme on Batar plateau in Nuwakot District; progress is satis-
factory. The Sunsari Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project,
which has recently been approved by IDA, is designed to upgrade and improve
the Chatra Canal System, covering about 66,000 ha, as well as to develop the
irrigation and drainage networks to farm level in about 6,400 ha within the
Chatra Canal System command.  The UNDP-financed Major Irrigation (Far West
Region) Project, for which the World Bank is executing agency, seeks to pre-
pare three irrigation projects in the Mahakali Zone (12,000 ha), Bheri Zone
(Babai) (13,500 ha) and Seti Zone (Jamuar Nala) (13,500 ha). Reconnaissance
reports have been produced, and feasibility studies on the first two projects
are due for completion by the end of 1978.
Project Formulation
1.15      The proposed project was formulated to develop the remaining 12,700
ha deleted from the original Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) in
November 1977 (para 1.13). However, as a result of experience gained from
implementing and operating the first part of the revised project (hereinafter
called Stage I), the proposed project would also upgrade irrigation and drain-
age infrastructure in areas of Stage I. It would also introduce a pilot pri-
vate community tubewell scheme aimed at relieving the strain on public funds
for irrigation development. In addition, the pilot scheme for intensifying
agricultural extension services started in two Districts under Stage I would
be expanded to cover six Districts and funded under the project. The project
consultants for Stage I (Nippon Koei) assisted HMGN with preparation of the
engineering component of the project. During appraisal of the project in
September 1977, the causes of the previous cost overrun and the available
implementation capacity were reviewed in particular to determine an optimal
design for the project, with the requisite organization of agricultural
extension and training components, better cost estimates and a realistic
construction period.



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The proposed project would extend along the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC)
from Pipra to the Bagmati river (Map IBRD 13537) and would include a part of
its command area, covering about 12,700 ha, between Birganj to the west and
the Arwa river to the east, and bound by the NEC to the north and the Nepal-
Indian border to the south. In addition, a private community tubewell scheme,
to be developed under the proposed project, would cover about 800 ha between
Birganj and Simra (Map IBRD 13527). The scheme of intensified agricultural
extension and training started under Stage I in Parsa and Bara Districts would
be extended to cover Rupandehi, Rautahat, Sunsari and Morang Districts and
would receive financial assistance under the project (Map IBRD 13648).
The Nepal Eastern Canal
2.02      Nepalese-Indian Agreements.  The NEC and parts of its secondary
canals were built under an agreement between HMGN and the Government of India
(GOI) concerning the use of waters from the Gandak river. 1/ The agreement
stipulated that, on behalf of the GOI, the State of Bihar's River Valley
Project Department (BRVPD) would construct a canal, the Don Branch, from a
barrage on the Gandak river at Tribeni, that would convey water across northern
Bihar to the Nepal-Indian border near Pipra (Map IBRD 13527); and also that
BRVPD would construct an extension of the Don Branch, the Nepal Eastern Canal,
eastward from Pipra to the Bagmati River (Map 13537), and short lengths of each
distributary canal in the NEC's 37,400 ha net command area. A supplemental
agreement bet een HMGN and GOI in October 1971 also specified that GOI would
supply 24.1 m /sec (850 cusecs) of water to the NEC at the Nepal border at all
times, except during periods when the Don Branch Canal was closed for necessary
repairs and maintenance. BRVPD handed over the NEC system to HMGN in June
1976. The NEC was partially opened for trials in 1976, and was run at 90%
full capacity on an emergency basis when the monsoon of 1977 was late and
sporadic.
2.03      Defects in the NEC System.  The NEC was originally designed during
the 1950s for supplementary irrigation, and the canals were to be operated
only during the wet season to supplement rainfall for the paddy crop. In 1972,
the concept was altered to that of a perennial system. This change in concept
required extra regulating structures to be built in the system to control a
greater range of flows throughout the year. However, these structures were
not installed by the BRVPD. In addition, the distribution system was incom-
plete, since its construction was terminated at 0.6 m /sec (20 cusecs)
capacity and without minor canals or structures to regulate water deliveries
1/   Agreement between His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the Government
of India on the Gandak Irrigation and Power Project, December 4, 1959.



-8-
to farms. This would give rise to extensive wastage and poor water distribu-
tion to the command area, as happened during emergency use of the canal in
1977. The irregularity of irrigation deliveries became further44eompounded by
untimely closures of the NEC system due to the breaching of embankments. This
was sometimes caused by excessive water levels within the canal during the
monsoon due to the lack of adequate escape capacity, though usually by failure
of the banks to withstand external flooding from a number of streams crossing
the NEC. Surface drainage is inadequate; this has reduced both paddy and
wheat yields in some areas, because of prolonged inundation during tillering
periods of paddy and the delayed sowing of wheat. The lack of cross drainage
under roads in the command area seriously affects transportation of produce
during the wet season, and could be counter productive as irrigation becomes
more widespread. Under Stage I, these defects are being rectified over an
area of 16,000 ha.
Birganj Irrigation Project (Stage I)
2.04      Surface Irrigation Area.  Under Stage I, 30 additional structures
were installed to enable year-round control of discharges and stormwater
inflow in the first 27 km of the NEC, including gated inlets to the main
secondary canals of the distribution system (Table 3.1). A gravelled service
road has been constructed along the 27-km upper reach of the NEC, and is open
for public use. To provide an effective distribution system in the 16,000 ha
commanded by the upper reach in Stage I, 450 km of canals, 310 km of drains,
4,800 structures and 130 km of service roads are under construction in six,
operationally separate units, designated Blocks I through VI (Map IBRD 13537).
To supply controlled flows to farm groups of about 7.5 ha each, 1,800 outlets
are being built on the tertiary canals in Stage I. Controlled water supplies
were first delivered to farm groups on a regular basis in 1,700 ha of Block I
in June 1977, and paddy yields were reported to have more than doubled. In
June 1978, regular supplies were distributed in Blocks I, III and VI, total-
ling about 5,500 ha, and are expected to reach all six Blocks (16,000 ha) by
July 1979. Temporary water supplies were made available to paddy farmers
along the whole length of the NEC during drought periods in 1977/78, at the
expense of construction progress (para 2.02).
2.05      Tubewell Irrigation Area.  Nine existing tubewells were restored
and 18 new deep wells (130 m) are being installed in the groundwater area of
Stage I (Map IBRD 13537). Each well is equipped with an electrically driven
turbine pump, delivering into a reservoir during off-peak power periods.
About 40 km of lined channels distribute supplies by scheduled routines,
arranged and supervised by the project's agricultural staff, to the 2,700 ha
commanded by the 27 reservoirs. The nine restored wells began to deliver
water in 1976 and, with strengthened intensive agricultural extension serv-
ices (para 2.15), have helped to produce encouraging farming results. The
average cropping intensity has already reached 180%. The remaining 18 wells
are expected to be in operation by late summer, 1978. Operation and mainte-
nance (O&M), competently carried out by project staff, is satisfactory and the
first nine wells have achieved an operating factor of over 90%.



2.06      Water Charges.  After a grace period of a year, water charge of
NRs 100 (US$8.33) per ha per crop (i.e. about NRs 180 (US$15) per ha per year
at the current cropping intensity) was applied in the commands of the nine
restored tubewells in 1977. This initial rate covers about 60% of tubewell
O&M costs. On behalf of the Revenue Department, staff of the project's
Agriculture Division succeeded in collecting full dues from 95% of the bene-
ficiaries. NZIDB has already started to collect the same initial water rate
in the surface irrigation area of Stage I during the 1978 irrigation season;
this rate covers O&M costs and about 10% of capital cost recovery with
interest at 10% over 50 years.
Natural Resources
2.07      Climate.  The project area has two distinct seasons, the wet season
(May to October) and the dry season (November to April). Annual rainfall is
about 1,350 mm, with over 90% falling in the wet season but with erratic dis-
tribution. About three years in ten it is either less than 1,000 mm or more
than 1,700 mm, with crop damage to rainfed crops in either case. Temperatures
range from a low of 8 C in January to a high of 40 C in April and May.  Annual
evaporation is about 1,550 mm, while humidity is 65% to 70% from March to May
and ranges between 75% and 85% for the remainder of the year.
2.08      Topography and Drainage.  The NEC command and groundwater areas lie
on an alluvial plain, sloping from north to south with moderately steep gra-
dients of 1:750 to 1:1,000 and increasingly undulating towards the eastern part
of the command. The area is intersected and drained by 17 streams and rivers
which originate from the northern hills and drain to the Gangetic Plain. Most
of these natural drainages are poor, particularly in the southern part of the
command, and would require upgrading in conjunction with irrigation develop-
ment. Floods causing inundation of 1-3 days duration can be expected in the
vicinity of these streams during the monsoon in most years. Protective embank-
ments (bunds) would be required in the vicinity of the Bagmati river to
prevent frequent, lengthy inundation of crops and to prevent damage to canals.
2.09      Soils.  Soils in both surface and groundwater areas are alluvial,
with medium to moderately fine texture consisting of silty to clay loams, and
some coarser sandy soils. The pH value of the layer ranges from 6.0 to 8.4
and electrical conductivity values are well under 1,000 mmhos; thus the soils
are non-saline. Favorable internal soil drainage exists in the project area.
In the nearby Hardinath Pilot Farm, where intensive irrigation has taken place
for about 7 years on a limited scale, none of the representative soil groups
showed sign of waterlogging with proper irrigation management and adequate
surface drainage. By U.S. Bureau of Reclamation standards, about 90% of the
lands, both the surface and groundwater areas, are classified Class II or III
for irrigation suitability. With proper drainage, the area is suitable for
irrigated farming of paddy and upland crops such as maize, wheat, groundnuts,
sugarcane, mustard and cotton.
2.10      Surfage Water.  The Gandak River, which has a catchment area of
about 35,000 km  entirely in Nepal, has a mean a nual flow of about 1,50  m /
sec, and monthly discharges varying from 4,570 m /5ec in August to 300 m /sec
in March. The undertaking of GOI to convey 24.1 m /sec to the Nepal Eastern



- 10 -
Canal on request can therefore easily be met by diversions from Gandak Barrage.
Minor barrages on the Tilawe and Sirsia Rivers near Birganj also provide sup-
plemental water supplies from June to November to the NEC system (Map IBRD
13537).
2.11      Groundwater.  United Nations Development Program (UNDP) consultants
studied the geo-hydrology of an area covering 20,000 ha located north of the
NEC in 1970 and 1971 (Map IBRD 13537). The area is underlain by alluvial
deposits to a depth of about 300 m saturated with groundwater to within 3 to
5 m of the land surface. Three types of aquifers were identified, each with
different lithologic and hydrologic characteristics. Layer 1 is a thin aquifer
(about 10 to 30 meters thick), consisting of fine, medium to coarse sands, and
the watertable lies about 3 m below ground surface. Layer 2 consists of coarse
sands and gravels and ranges in thickness from 20 to 75 meters, and has been
tested to show that it contains water at higher pressure than the overlying
layer 1 or the lower layer 3, so that it has artesian storage. Layer 3, the
most extensive of the three, consists of fine to coarse sands with gravel and
thin discontinuous beds of clay. The top of layer 3 is about 60 to 100 m below
ground surface and its thickness ranges from 130 to 280 m. The layer also has
a relatively high productivity of 180 to 300 m /hr. Recharge to all three
aquifers occurs directly by infiltration of rainfall within the area and by
lateral inflow from the north. Water quality is good to slightly alkaline,
and is suitable for irrigation use under the local soil conditions.
Cultivation Practices
2.12      Land Use.  The area is under relatively intensive cultivation based
on staple food crops. The following cropping patterns are practiced: (a)
early paddy-late paddy-fallow; (b) medium paddy-wheat; (c) late paddy-wheat;
and (d) early paddy-sugarcane. Present cropping intensity is about 160% of
which paddy accounts for 90% of the area during the wet season. Wheat is
the predominant crop in the dry season, accounting for 40% of the total area;
some other minor crops such as pulses (10%), oilseeds (6%), and vegetables
(4%) are cultivated on a limited scale for home consumption. Sugarcane is an
important cash crop (10%), mostly grown in areas where some local irrigation
is available.
2.13      Crops and Crop Yields.  The early paddy and late paddy, planted
about May and September and harvested about August and December, respectively,
are usually high yielding varieties (such as IR5, IR8, IR20, Parwanipur 1 and
Masuli) that mature in 90 days. Their yields, about 2.2 tons/ha, are below
their potential because of inadequate use of inputs such as fertilizer and
plant protection applications. Medium paddy, planted between June and July
and harvested in October/November, is usually a local fine variety with a
longer maturity period of 120 to 150 days. Its yield is relatively low, about
1.3 tons/ha. Wheat varieties such as RR21, S227 and S331 were introduced in
the area some five years ago, and farmers usually rely on soil moisture for
germination. Since farmers place greater emphasis in getting at least one crop
of paddy, wheat is sometimes planted late (around mid-December) and yield is



- 11 -
reduced because of the high temperature and hot winds in April and May. Aver-
age wheat yield is about 1.3 tons/ha. Sugarcane varieties grown in the area
such as B050 can produce yields of 68 tons/per ha per year with proper appli-
cation of water, fertilizer and plant protection. However, the average present
yield is only about 22 tons/ha due to insufficient water supply during the hot
and dry months of May, June and July and inadequate inputs use. Oilseeds crops
grown are mustard, rapeseed and groundnut. Their prices are attractive, but
due to limited processing facilities and uncertain water supplies, farmers are
not willing to invest in sufficient inputs for these crops. As a result,
yields are particularly low, about 0.3 ton/ha. Pulses and vegetables are
mostly grown for home consumption and their low yields (about 0.6 and 5.7
tons/ha, respectively) offer much scope for improvement.
2.14      Input Requirements.  At present, farmers use simple wooden ploughs
and animal power for land preparation. Some small 7-10 HP cultivators are,
however, used in sugarcane areas. Most of the crops are raised under uncer-
tain rainfall conditions, and the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides
is limited by farmers' attitudes to the risks involved. Harvesting and thresh-
ing activities are mostly carried out by manual labor and bullocks.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.15      Extension, Training and Research.  Under Stage I, the Department of
Agriculture (DA) started a pilot scheme in which agricultural extension serv-
ices were strengthened in Parsa and Bara Districts. The number of field staff
was increased, enabling each extension worker to cover 400-500 farm households;
programs for instruction of farmers were intensified along the lines of the
Training and Visit (T&V) System; and staff capability was improved through
methodical training as well as better technical backstopping. Staffing and
administration of the intensified extension and training activities, with
provision of additional vehicles, were delegated by DA to Narayani Zone Irri-
gation Development Board, whose General Manager was given overall responsibil-
ity for implementation of the extension program in both Districts. The pilot
scheme has proved to be successful, not least because of extremely good
coordination achieved between project management and the Senior Agricultural
Officer in technical charge of activities. Synchronization of the irrigation-
oriented extension program with the completion of development works was
particularly effective; the success of this phasing is reflected in compara-
tively high early benefits obtained by farmers after controlled water deliveries
were made in 1977 to limited areas of Stage I. An evaluation study of the T&V
System in Parsa and Bara Districts, carried out by the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Irrigation (MFAI), indicates that about 93% of the farmers
interviewed felt that the program has helped to increase production. Despite
this success, the program needs further improvement, particularly in the
training of village-level staff who have preliminary, little or no education,
and receive inadequate training. Research is satisfactorily conducted by the
Parwanipur Research Station, located about 10 km north of Birganj. This is
the main rice station in Nepal which has produced a stiff-strawed, nitrogen-
responsive variety adaptable to the project area (Parwanipur 1). The Station
also conducts various trials on planting methods, fertilizer application,
irrigation timing and amount for various crops. In addition, it produces
foundation seed for use throughout Nepal. The Station also provides some



- 12 -
training for extension workers and leading farmers. This service is generally
inadequate, mainly due to lack of experienced instructors and poor facilities.
2.16      Credit and Input Supply.  ADBN has established one branch office
and four sub-branches in the project area. In addition, there are about
78 Sahja Cooperative Societies (para 1.08), each serving about 800-1,000 farm
households. Most of the credits are in the form of short-term loans for
production purposes. Recovery rate during the last few years has been about
75%. This is expected to improve as the Asian Development Bank has recently
assisted the ADBN in staff management training. There are 2 commercial banks
in the area but their involvement in agricultural lending has been limited.
Lending from private sources is widespread though there are no reliable data
to indicate its extent. Input distribution is handled through a branch of the
Agriculture Input Corporation located in Birganj. Most of the fertilizers and
pesticides are imported from India, while seeds are produced locally by
contracts with farmers in the area. Supply of inputs is ample but their
distribution has been poor due to lack of storage facilities throughout the
area. This problem has been alleviated by the construction of 7 storage
facilities with capacities of 50, 100 and 300 tons under Stage I.
2.17      Marketing and Processing.  The area is well served by a number of
rice mills with an estimated annual milling capacity of approximately 24,000
tons. In addition, there are also some small rice hullers operated in the
villages. A sugar mill, located in Birganj, is presently operated below
capacity. Marketing channels are relatively well-developed; millers in
Birganj and neighboring Indian towns have a widespread network of traders in
the villages. A branch of the Rice Export Company was also established in the
area to handle rice export, primarily to India. However, extensive trading
also takes place through informal channels across the border though there is
no reliable information on its extent.
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.18      Population.  There are about 216,000 inhabitants in the NEC coumand
area of which about 69,300 live in the Stage II area. The total number of
households in Stage II area is about 12,600, with an average family size of
5.5. Farm households account for about 85% of the total, of which less than
10% are landless. The largest and most urbanized area is Birganj which has
a population about 60,000.
2.19      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  The average farm size of the NEC command
area is 1.1 ha, with a distribution as follows:
Farm Size          Farm Holdings         Cultivated Area
Z  Accumulated  %    %      Accumulated %
Less than 0.15      8          8           1           1
0.15 - 0.5       31        39          10           11
0.50 - 1.0       25        64          17           28
1.0  - 3.0       30        94          48           76
Over 3.0            6        100         24          100



- 1 3 -
About 64% of the holdings below 1.0 ha account for only 28% of the cultivated
area. In addition, farms are fragmented with an average size of plots of
about 0.2 ha. About 41% of the holdings are fully owned and operated, 32% are
partly owned and partly rented and 27% are wholly rented by project farmers.
Tenancy fees are officially fixed according to the grade of the land. In the
project area, the fees are generally equivalent to about 650 kg of paddy per
ha or about one-third of the crop. Costs of providing inputs are generally
shared between landlords and tenants on about the same basis.
2.20      Communications.  The project area is centered on Birganj, an impor-
tant administrative marketing and processing centre. The Kathmandu-Birganj-
Raxaul highway bisects the project area and connects with the National East-
West Highway, which is about 25 km to the north, and with Raxaul, an Indian
town at the border to the south. A narrow-gauge railway line also connects
Birganj to Raxaul and the Indian railway system. A small airport at Simra,
located about 12 km north of Birganj, also serves the area (Map IBRD 13527).
2.21      Public Services.  Electricity in the project area is provided by
two transmission lines (66 kv and 11 kv) originating from Kathmandu. Potable
water supplies are available in the main towns, but most villages rely on
open ponds which become contaminated and often empty towards the end of the
dry season.. HMGN is implementing a program for providing small-bore wells
and hand pumps for village water supplies, which is particularly successful
in the project area where groundwater is frequently found to be under artesian
pressure. Health clinics and schools are limited to towns and a few of the
larger villages.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
3.01      The proposed project would upgrade the existing Nepal Eastern Canal
(NEC) and extend the development of its command area, started under the on-
going Birganj Irrigation Project (Stage I) (para 2.04). The objectives would
be to: (a) improve the reliability and amount of water deliveries to farms
and establish farmers' confidence in the irrigation system; and (b) accelerate
agricultural development and increase farm incomes as well as rural employment.
To achieve the above objectives, the project is designed to: (i) improve the
operational control of the NEC as well as its security against damage by
floods; (ii) expand the area of the irrigation distribution system capable
of delivering regulated water supplies to groups of farms of 7.5 to 10 ha;
(iii) improve drainage of farms and roads; and (iv) strengthen agricultural
extension services and improve the linkage with research and training.
3.02      The proposed project would include the improvement of NEC's remain-
ing length (52 km) beyond that restored (27 km) under Stage I; protection
of NEC against flood damage (para 2.03); further development of the NEC com-
mand's irrigation distribution system, drainage network and canal service
roads in 12,700 ha, and improvement of those constructed in 16,000 ha in
Stage I (para 2.04), thus completing irrigation infrastructure throughout
28,700 ha; pilot schemes for privately-owned community tubewells, waterlog-
ging control, and low-cost all-weather roads; an expansion of the intensified
agricultural extension and training scheme started in two Districts under
Stage I (para 2.15); and the provision of technical services including con-
sultants. With minor additions to the engineering staff already employed
under Stage I, the present implementation capacity would enable the project
to be completed in a four-year period between 1978/79 and 1981/82.
Main Project Features
3.03      The main components of the project would be:
(a) construction of additional structures for improved water
supply control, cross-drainage, protection against floods
along about 52 km of the NEC between Birganj and the
Bagmati river, and improvement of the NEC service road
(about 79 km) between Pipra and Bagmati river (para 3.04);
(b)  construction of the irrigation distribution and drainage
systems down to farm level and canal service roads in
about 12,700 ha of the NEC command between Birganj and
the Arwa river (paras 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07);
(c)  upgrading of surface drainage systems, irrigation facil-
ities and canal service roads in about 16,000 ha of the NEC
command between Pipra and Birganj (paras 3.05 and 3.07);



- 15 -
(d)  installation of about 25 wells and pumps, irrigation
channels, access roads and support to ADBN for providing
loans for an 800-ha pilot, privately-owned community
tubewell scheme (para 3.08);
(e)  construction and operation of field trials for water-
logging control, low cost roads, and a pilot micro-
hydroelectric station (para 3.09 and 3.10);
(f)  provision of intensified agricultural extension services,
including adequate staff, for six Districts in the
Terai (Rupandehi, Parsa, Bara, Rautahat, Sunsari and
Morang) (para 3.11);
(g)  provision of training for engineering, agricultural
and administrative staff (para 5.16);
(h)  provision of engineering operation and maintenance equip-
ment with vehicles for agricultural extension services,
spare parts and training equipment (para 3.12);
(i)  construction of buildings for project agricultural and
engineering operations and training, staff housing and
agricultural storage (para 3.13);
(j)  provision of technical services, including project consult-
ants, air photography and mapping for further development of
the NEC command area (paras 3.14, 3.15).
Detailed Features
3.04      Improvement of NEC (Table 3.1).  The works would include:  (a) con-
struction of 13 additional regulating structures to control flows in both wet
and dry seasons throughout 52 km of the NEC (from middle to tail reaches);
(b) strengthening of 10 km of embankments on the NEC left bank and provision
of ten additional drainage inlets and culverts to prevent breaches and ensuing
canal closures; and (c) construction of protective works, including three
escapes and conveyance channels, as well as an 8 km long flood embankment near
the Bagmati river (Map IBRD 13537), to prevent recurrence of damage caused by
monsoon flooding. In conjunction with the improvements, the left bank would
be provided with an emergency access road where necessary. The 3.5 m-wide
gravel-surfaced service road provided on the right bank of the canal under
Stage I would be continued for 52 km to the tail, its surfacing would be
strengthened along the 27-km head reach, and it would become a public road,
with six new connecting bridges to villages in the area. Bullock carts
would be restricted to an earth road to be formed on the lower part of the
right embankment along the whole 79 km length of the canal.
3.05      Development of Irrigation System (Table 3.1).  Southward flowing
rivers, streams and natural drains (nalas) divide the Stage II irrigation
command of the NEC into six, operationally separate distribution units,
Blocks VII through XII, each planned to include a secondary and tertiary
distribution canal system (Map IBRD 13537). Existing head reaches of



- 16 -
secondary canals, totalling about 40 km, each with a capacity exceeding
0.6 m /sec, would be improved under the project, mainly by the addition of
control structures. The distribution system would be extended down to out-
lets serving groups of farms covering 7.5 to 10 ha throughout the six blocks
enclosing a total of 12,700 ha. Works would include about 360 km of main
secondary, branch secondary and tertiary canals, with about 6,500 control
structures, and about 360 km of service roads and farm tracks. 1/ In addition,
structural improvements would be made throughout the Stage I distribution area
(16,000 ha), as a result of the experience gained in the first year of opera-
tion. These would include improved water level control at NEC escapes, in-
creased erosion control measures at regulating structures, improved tertiary
canal turnout gates to eliminate leakage, strengthened canal service roads to
reduce maintenance costs, and the repair of some damaged structures of the
Tilawe supplementary system.
3.06      Farm Group Development (Table 3.1).  Under present conditions,
water is discharged from secondary canals through unregulated outlets usually
commanding over 400 ha each, and its distribution to farms is extremely
haphazard. Under the project, water distribution would be considerably
improved by the provision of regulating outlets, each serving groups of farms
covering 7.5 to 10 ha. Within the farm groups, field channels from the
tertiary outlets, as well as drains, would be installed by the cooperative
action of local labor under the supervision of project staff, as is being
carried out satisfactorily under Stage I.
3.07      Drainage Improvement.  To create conditions more suitable for ob-
taining higher paddy yields by controlling monsoon flooding, and for planting
wheat and other upland crops after paddy, drainage systems including about
250 km of drains and over 2,000 structures would be constructed to link farm
group development areas of about 10 ha to natural drains (nalas) throughout
12,700 ha. Appropriate structures would be provided for drains at road and
canal crossing points. Based on recent observations, the capacity of field
drainage which would be constructed under the project would be based on a
run-off criterion of 3 1/sec/ha, and drains built under Stage I (which were
based on about one-third of this capacity) would be modified as necessary.
Control structures would be installed on drains in Stage II to regulate flow
and control scour. Additional drainage controls and culverts would be
built as necessary in the Stage I command area of 16,000 ha.
3.08      Community Tubewells Scheme (Map IBRD 13537).  Towards reducing the
investment burden on HMGN for groundwater development, the project would
install up to 5 deep, privately owned community tubewells to irrigate about
120 ha (about 40 to 80 farms) each, and 20 or more similar shallow tubewells
to irrigate about 10 ha (4 to 8 farms) each, in the vicinity of the Stage I
groundwater pilot development area where surface irrigation development is not
feasible. The scheme would explore and develop the farmers' capability to
finance and operate irrigation tubewells themselves, with some assistance from
ADBN and the project staff. If successful, the scheme could be replicated in
1/   In the proposed project, a tertiary serves about 40-50 ha, a branch
secondary about 200-600 ha and a main secondary supplies four or more
branch secondaries.



- 17 -
many locations in the Terai. Deep tubewells would be steel cased, 25 cm in
diameter, about 150 m deep and equipped with electrically powered 40-kw
submersible turbine pumps of approximately 80 1/sec capacity. A pumphouse
with switchboard, discharge metering device and operator's quarters would be
built at each jell site, and each pump would discharge during off-peak hours
into a 2,000 m capacity regulating storage reservoir. Power would be supplied
through about 10 km of 11 kv distribution lines to be constructed under the
proposed project from the Raxaul-Birganj-Kathmandu 33 kv transmission line
which has ample capacity for off-peak operation of the pumps. Leading from
each reservoir, the main water distribution channels (7.5 km) would be lined
channels of the type developed in Stage I, and field channels would be con-
structed by farmers' cooperative action under project staff supervision. The
shallow tubewells would be steel cased, 10 cm diameter, about 30 m deep and
equipped with electrically powered 2.5 kW centrifugal pumps of about 10 1/sec
capacity. They would be located outside the zone of influence of the deep
wells. A pumphouse delivery pipe and distribution chamber would be provided
at each well, as well as all irrigation and drainage structures. The field
channels would be constructed by cooperative action of farm labor under the
supervision of project staff. The organization of construction, financing and
O&M of the private community tubewells scheme are described in paras 5.06 and
5.10.
3.09      Waterlogging and Soil Stabilization Trials (Table 3.1).  To test
-the draw-down effects on high watertables for the control of waterlogging
(para 8.10), five deep tubewells and 20 shallow tubewells (in addition to
the tubewells discussed in para 3.08) would be installed in the low-lying
areas of NEC command. Power for the tubewell pumps would be supplied from
the 33 kv transmission line at Birganj during off-peak periods. Tubewell
water would be discharged into the NEC system. To test the feasibility of
using hydrated lime to stabilize and strengthen compacted soils in canal
service roads and tertiary canals, investigations would be carried out on a
limited scale in the project area. In the event that the investigations show
lime stabilization to be practical, economical and within the capability of
local contractors, full-scale trials would be initiated in the field, and
would be monitored for cost effectiveness.
3.10      Micro-Hydroelectric Development.  Nepal has considerable scope for
micro-hydroelectric development. A major advantage of micro-hydroelectric
stations would be their speedy construction, while major hydro-power projects
take many years to develop. The micro-stations would be particularly useful
for rural electrification and groundwater development, and possibly for
small scale fertilizer production. However, there is only very limited
experience with micro-power development in Nepal. A pilot micro-hydroelectric
station would, therefore, be built at the Tilawe barrange. The station
would be built by NZIDB with the help of consultants and/or other interested
agencies. The cost and benefits of the station would be closely monitored.
3.11      Agricultural Extension, Research and Training.  In view of the
promising results obtained in the pilot scheme of agricultural extension on
the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) System introduced in Parsa and Bara
Districts under Stage I (para 2.15), HMGN intends to extend the T&V System
throughout Nepal under a national extension and training project. Since it



- 18 -
may take some time to implement such a project effectively, as an interim
measure, the pilot scheme is to be expanded from two Districts to six, which
would cover all three on-going, IDA-assisted irrigation projects in the
Terai (Map IBRD 13469). In addition to Parsa and Bara, intensification of
extension services and training would be taken up in Rupandehi, Rautahat,
Sunsari and Morang Districts, and would be financially assisted under the
project. Additional field and advisory staff, operating under carefully
regulated schedules, would enable the T&V System of agricultural extension
to reach about 290,000 farm families. To support the expansion of the pilot
scheme, the proposed project would provide for consultant services (paras
3.15 and 5.13), training, linkages with research (para 5.14) and a proportion
(55%) of staff costs for a four-year period, vehicles, staff quarters, stores,
a training center and associated equipment.
3.12      Equipment and Vehicles.  The project would provide equipment, vehicles
and spare parts needed to supplement those procured under Stage I for survey
and supervision of construction (including materials testing); for operation
and effective maintenance of the works (including canal telecommunications
facilities); for agricultural extension and training, and for technical serv-
ices as well as workshop equipment for maintenance and repair. Bicycles for
extension personnel would be sold to the staff on an installment basis. Most
of the equipment and vehicles, together with spare parts and assemblies, would
have to be imported, and a list of the estimated requirements is presented in
Table 3.2.
3.13      Buildings and Facilities.  For the project engineering operations,
eight low-cost irrigation sub-centers (including offices, stores and housing),
laboratory, and a workshop would be built. For agricultural extension services
in the six Districts, the project would provide 30 sub-training centers
and about 120 quarters of inexpensive construction for some of the extension
and research staff. Six storage facilities of 50 to 100 tons capacity for
agricultural inputs would be built in the irrigated area. To ensure effective
operational control of the NEC, telephone facilities are being provided
along the first 62 km of the canal under Stage I; they would be extended by 17
km to the tail of NEC under Stage II. Telecommunications facilities would also
be installed under the project for control of the distribution canal staff and
made operational by May 31, 1980.
3.14      Air Photography and Mapping.  Mapping of most of the NEC command has
already been carried out. In the tail reach, however, an area of about 10,000
ha remains to be coveted by air photography and 1:5,000 scale maps prepared
prior to commencement of its development under a future project. Provision
would be made for this survey work under the proposed project.
3.15      Consultants (Table 3.3).  In 1973, HMGN employed Nippon Koei (Japan)
as consultants for the Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone)(Stage I);
their performance has been satisfactory. About 75 man-months of engineering
consultants would be provided under the proposed project, compared to more
than 300 man-months in the period 1974/78, since the project staff has gained
much experience from implementing Stage I. The consultants would provide
in-service training, advice and guidance to project engineering staff in



- 19 -
project planning and scheduling; design of works; preparation of bidding
documents and bid evaluation; modern construction techniques; construction
quality control; and monitoring of progress and costs. Consultants would also
be engaged to assist in designing and implementing the intensified agricultural
extension and training programs in the six Districts to be covered (para
3.11), and to provide essential instruction in training and communication
techniques to staff who would become trainers themselves. About 15 man-months
of consultant services would be provided for these purposes. The total cost
for consulting services is estimated at $850,000, or about $9,500 per man-
month, including all overheads, travel, per diem etc. The appointment of a
firm of experienced engineering consultants satisfactory to IDA, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effective-
ness. An assurance has been obtained from HMGN that agricultural consultants
experienced in extension and training and satisfactory to IDA, would be
recruited to the project by NZIDB by April 30, 1979, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
Water Demand and Supply
3316      Nepal's agreement with India (para 2.02) assures that up to 24.1
m /sec (850 cusecs) of water would be delivered from the Don Branch Canal
(DBC) to the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) when requested by the project staff,
except when the DBC is closed for repairs or annual maintenance. Regular
meetings are being held among NZIDB staff and staff of the Bihar Irrigation
Department to determine most appropriate dates for maintenance closure of
the DBC without endangering the operation of NEC for required irrigation
water deliveries. Telephone communications between staff at the Gandak River
barrage, along the DBC and at the head of NEC are being actively improved,
and are expected to be completed by March 31, 1979.
3.17      The maximum discharge capacity at the head of the NEC represents
about 8% of the lowest probable flow of the Gandak River (para 2.10), and
river flows would therefore be much more than sufficient to meet this require-
ment at all times.  The estimated crop irrigation requirements and canal water
demand are presented in Table 3.3 and summarized below:
Jan  Feb   Mar   Apr  May   Jun   Jul   Aug  Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
------------------Cubic Meters per second----------------------
NEC
Supply      7.5  10.8  13.6  8.7  10.8  11.1  18.6  6.8  16.7  14.9  15.6  8.8
required
Maintenance
closures                  3 wks   1 wk                         1 wk    1 wk
3.18      At full development of Stages I and II of the project, and with a
projected overall irrigation efficiency of about 60% during the wet (paddy)
season, 70% to 75% of the canal capacity would be used. During the dry
season, with an irrigation efficiency of about 50%, the projected demand would
be between 30% and 65% of the maximum canal discharge. Sufficient water would



- 20 -
therefore be available in the NEC at peak demand periods not only for Stage I
and II but also for future expansion of irrigation from the canal, including
the area (8,700 ha) commanded between the Arwa and Bagmati Rivers.
Engineering Designs and Construction Methods
3.19      The designs of civil works under the proposed project would be gene-
rally similar in concept to those used in Stage I.  In light of experience
gained, however, changes would be made throughout Stages I and II, including:
(a) the use of concrete blockwork instead of dry brick at canal structures to
eliminate erosion of canal banks; (b) installation of watertight, steel head-
gates at all secondary outlets to prevent leakage; (c) construction of concrete
stop logs at the tertiary outlets to improve control of flows to farm areas;
and (d) raising the level of canal service roads and increasing the number of
culverts to improve their drainage. Most of the work would be labor-intensive,
and compaction of earthwork would be improved by the introduction of machinery.
Innovations to be tested in pilot schemes would include construction of
seepage-proof, strengthened tertiary and lesser canals, and service roads in
lime-stabilized earth, and pre-fabricated concrete components for use with
brick-work in minor water control structures.
Implementation Schedule
3.20      The project would be implemented between 1978 and 1982.  The engi-
neering staff and consultants required for the first year's work are already
in post, together with the necessary vehicles and facilities. Engineering
preparations are sufficiently advanced to permit as much work to be started
as would be commensurate with the assessed implementation capacity. Surveys
and designs for part of the NEC improvement and the first three irrigation
blocks, covering about 6,000 ha, have been prepared and works would be sched-
uled to start in two of the blocks in December 1978. The remainder would be
designed by January 1980. Drainage improvement in Stage I would have immediate
priority to reduce the possibility of inundation in areas which are now under
irrigation. Drainage works in Stage II would be constructed simultaneously
with the development of the distribution system in each irrigation block.
All civil works, including the private community tubewell scheme, would be
completed by June 1982. The proposed construction program (Figure 3.1) also
takes into account the increasing rate of construction expenditure, which has
been demonstrated in Stage I. Under Stage II, it is projected to increase
civil works expenditures from about US$1.4 M in FY79 to about US$2.8 M in
FY80. These rates lie within the planning, expenditures supervision and
control capability of the available staff for the project.
3.21      Agricultural extension activities would be phased over four years
(Figure 3.2). Staff appointments to the agricultural extension service in
the six Districts would be filled within the first two years, and most of the
associated building construction and procurement of equipment and vehicles
would be completed by that time. Consultants to assist with the agricultural
staff training and establishing the extension service programs would be en-
gaged during the first year, with short-term visits in subsequent years.
Short-term overseas and local training would be extended over the entire
four-year period.



- 21 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total project cost, estimated at US$17 M equivalent, including
about US$0.1 M in taxes and duties, is summarized below and detailed in
Table 4.1. The foreign exchange component would be about US$9.2 M equivalent,
or 54% of the total project cost. Annual operation and maintenance costs on
completion of the project have been estimated and are presented in Table 4.2.
The estimated cif cost of equipment and vehicles needed for project construc-
tion, operation and maintenance are listed in Table 3.2.
4.02      The estimated costs for civil works are based on recent contract
awards in the Terai, and unit prices for equipment and materials are based on
1977 quotations from suppliers, cif Calcutta, with an allowance for trans-
portation to Birganj. Allowances have been included for two years' supply of
spare parts and assemblies, variously estimated at 10% to 40% of the equipment
value depending on its utilization factor, and with a weighted average of 15%
for mobile plant. Physical contigencies have been allowed for in construction
costs, varying from 10% to 15% depending on the state of preparation of
designs, with a weighted average of 14% (Table 4.1). Price contingencies are
estimated at about 15% of the project cost based on the following inflation
rates:
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81-1982/83
Civil Works and Services        8        7.5             7
Equipment                       7        6.5             6
4.03      The agricultural extension component of the proposed project would
include the reorganization of six districts (para 3.11-3.12). The total cost
of this component is estimated at US$2.3 M equivalent, net of price contin-
gencies (Table 4.3). About US$0.8 M was included in the project cost of the
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project for extension in
Sunsari and Morang Districts and US$0.2 M in the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater
Development Project for Rupandehi District. The cost of the agricultural
extension component under the proposed project would, therefore, include the
balance of the total cost, about US$1.3 M equivalent, net of price contingencies.



- 22 -
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
---NRs million ----  ----- US$ million ---          %
Civil Works and
Buildings
Nepal Eastern Canal
improvement              8.4      8.4   16.8      0.7    0.7       1.4      50
Surface irrigation
and drainage            34.8    21.6   56.4       2.9    1.8       4.7      38
Community groundwater
development              1.2      2.4    3.6      0.1    0.2       0.3      67
Pilot works                2.4      2.4    4.8      0.2    0.2       0.4      50
Buildings                  6.0      2.4    8.4      0.5    0.2       0.7      29
Sub-total               52.8    37.2   90.0       4.4    3.1       7.5      41
Equipment and
Vehicles
Engineering                -       31.2   31.2       -      2.6      2.6    100
Agriculture                -        2.4    2.4       -      0.2      0.2    100
Sub-total                        33.6   33.6       -     2.8       2.8    100
Technical Services          2.4    10.8   13.2      0.2    0.9       1.1      82
Establishment
Engineering and
administration           8.4      2.4   10.8      0.7    0.2       0.9      22
Agriculture                 2.4     1.2    3.6      0.2    0.1       0.3      33
Sub-total               10.8      3.6   14.4      0.9    0.3       1.2      25
Contingencies
Physical                    7.2     7.2   14.4      0.6    0.6       1.2      50
Price                     13.2    18.0   31.2       1.1    1.5       2.6      58
Sub-total               20.4    25.2   45.6       1.7    2.1       3.8      56
Land Acquisition            6.0     -       6.0     0.5      -       0.5      -
Taxes and duties            1.2     -       1.2     0.1      -       0.1      -
TOTAL PROJECT COST      93.6   110.4  204.0       7.8    9.2      17.0      54



- 23 -
Annual Expenditures
4.04      The estimated annual expenditures on project works, services, estab-
lishment and equipment are detailed in Table 4.4, and are summarized as
follows:
FY79  FY80   FY81  FY82  Total
----- US$ million --------
Annual budgetary requirements    3.6   5.6   5.3   2.5   17.0
Financing Plan
4.05      The proposed IDA Credit of US$14.0 M equivalent would finance the
full foreign exchange cost of the project (US$9.2 M) and about 62% of local
costs, or about 82% of total project costs. HMGN would contribute most of the
remainder, with ADBN and farmers providing US$0.1 M and US$0.3 M, respectively
as shown in the finaaicing plan below:
Foreign Exchange   Local Currency        Total
US$ M               US$ M             US$ M
Equiv.      %       Equiv.       %    Equiv.   %
IDA                9.2        100       4.8       62    14.0    82
Local Financing
- HMGN                                  2.6       33      2.6    15
- ADBN                                  0.1        1      0.1     1
- Farmers                               0.3        4      0.3     2
4.06      The cost of the community tubewell scheme to the farmers, i.e.,
excluding costs for irrigation distribution channels, transmission lines and
access tracks, would amount to about US$200,000, including price contingencies.
These costs would be financed by the farmers, and each would obtain a loan
from ADBN proportional to his size of holding under the command of a tubewell
(paras 5.06 and 7.10). The downpayment by farmers, including the value of
their own labor, is set at 10%. Of ADBN's funding requirements for the
project, 80% would be refinanced by HMGN. The Central Bank lends to ADBN at
6% annual rate of interest, with a minimum repayment period of 25 years.
4.07      Although Nepal has made commendable efforts in mobilizing resources
(revenues increased about 7% over the period of 1970/71 to 1975/76 in real
terms, three times the corresponding rate of GDP growth), it still faces
difficulties in raising funds domestically to meet the required local con-
tribution in a number of foreign-aided development projects as well as to
finance its current expenditure on non-development activities. In order to
assist HMGN in bridging this resource gap, local cost financing is recommended.
Procurement and Contracts
4.08      All civil engineering contracts would be relatively small, works
would be scattered, and can only be carried out in about 6 months of the year



- 24 -
between December and June. Experience under Stage I indicates that these
works would not attract large foreign contractors and would only be suitable
for locally advertised competitive bidding (LCB) with participation by
Nepalese and probably by Indian contractors. LCB would be in accordance with
HMGN procedures which are being used under Stage I and are satisfactory to
IDA. All engineering buildings would also be constructed by LCB contracts
under the supervision of project staff. Agricultural extension buildings in
the six districts would be carried out by LCB contract under the supervision
of engineering staff of the three IDA-assisted irrigation projects; Narayani
Zone Irrigation Stage II Project, Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project, and
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project (para 3.11).
4.09      Equipment and vehicles for construction, operation and maintenance,
costing an estimated US$2.9 M (Table 3.2) 1/ would be procured through Inter-
national Competitive Bidding (ICB) contracts. Since the project staff are
familiar with ICB procedures used under Stage I, they would also procure
equipment and vehicles required for the agricultural extension services in the
six Districts (US$0.3 M). Items costing less than US$25,000 each and which
are not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through
normal government procurement methods up to a total of US$250,000 through
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Purchases under these arrangements
would be monitored during IDA supervision missions.
Disbursement
4.10      Disbursement from the credit would be made against:  (a) 100% of
the foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment, materials, vehicles
and spare parts (b) 100% for locally manufactured goods procured ex-factory;
(c) 75% of other locally procured goods; (d) 100% of technical services costs;
(e) 90% of total expenditures on civil works and buildings; and (f) 55% of
expenditures for total agricultural extension and training staff cost for the
six Districts, which would be equivalent to 90% of incremental staff cost.
Disbursement for force account works under items (e) and for item (f) would be
made against statements of expenditure certified by the General Manager (para
5.03). Supporting data for such statements would be retained by the project
and would be available for inspection by IDA supervision missions. A schedule
of estimated disbursements and the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
credit are presented in Table 4.5. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by December 1983, 18 months after the completion of the project. A condition
of disbursement for the community tubewell scheme would be that financial
arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, have been made between HMGN and ADBN.
Accounts and Audit
4.11      Assurances have been obtained that HMGN would cause the General
Manager, the ADBN and the Department of Agriculture: (a) to establish and
1/   Net of physical and price contingencies.



- 25 -
maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with sound account-
ing practices and that these accounts would be audited annually by an inde-
pendent auditor acceptable to IDA; and (b) to send the certified copies
of the audited account and the auditor's report to IDA within six months
after the close of each fiscal year. The audit report would be required
to include, inter alia, a statement that funds disbursed against statements
of expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were provided.



- 26 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Boards
5.01      In accordance with HMGN's established policy and for effective
project implementation, the Narayani Irrigation Development Board (NZIDB) was
created in 1973 for executing the Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone)
or Stage I. The NZIDB is a semi-autonomous agency located in Kathmandu. It
is chaired by the Secretary to the Government's Ministry of Food, Agricul-
ture and Irrigation, with members including representatives from the Ministries
of Finance, Water and Power, and Land Reform, the Planning Commission, the
Directors-General of the Department of Agriculture (DA) and the Department of
Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM), Regional Directors of DIHM and
DA, (Central Region), and the General Manager (Secretary) of the Birganj Irri-
gation Project. The NZIDB's functions include: (a) approval of annual budget
proposals for executing the project; (b) staff appointments; (c) approval
of award of large contracts and consultants' agreements; (d) semi-annual re-
views of implementation programs and progress; and (e) coordination of policy
matters on programming, budgeting and finance. The NZIDB has become increas-
ingly effective in carrying out Stage I., and it would also be responsible for
implementing the proposed Stage II project.
5.02      To implement the agricultural extension and training components
which would be financed under the project (para 3.10), and in continuation of
the successful organizational arrangements made in Stage I (para 2.15), the
DA would delegate authority and depute staff for providing these services
throughout six Districts in the Terai to the project Boards concerned (Map
IBRD 13648). Extension activities would be administered in Parsa, Bara and
Rautahat Districts by NZIDB; in Rupandehi District by the IDA-financed
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (BLGP) through the Groundwater Develop-
ment Board; and in Sunsari and Morang Districts by the Sunsari-Morang Irriga-
tion and Drainage Development Board (SMIDDB), as shown in Figure 5.1. The
three Regional Directors of Agriculture (RDAs) and the Boards concerned would
also be required to delegate administrative authority and budgetary control
for extension activities to the General Manager (GM) of NZIDB, and to the
Project Managers of BLGP and SMIDDB (paras 5.11-5.13). Responsibility for
agricultural research activities and regional training centers associated
with the project would, however, remain with the RDAs.
Field Management
5.03      The GM of NZIDB, located at Birganj, has overall management respon-
sibility for: (a) preparation of annual project engineering work programs,
budget and staffing schedules to present to the Board; (b) administration of
project staff, including consultants; (c) authorization of works constructed
by force account as well as civil works (up to NRs 2 M) and equipment con-
tracts (up to NRs 100,000); and (d) coordination of all project activities at
Regional and District levels. The GM is a senior technical officer of high
caliber and appropriate experience. He would be assisted by a team of con-
sultants throughout project implementation (para 3.15). An assurance has been



- 27 -
obtained from HMGN that the post of General Manager of NZIDB would continue
to be filled throughout the period of the project by an official with tech-
nical qualifications, prior experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA and NZIDB.
5.04      The field organization for the project would be a continuation of
that established under Stage I, in which the GM controls four divisions
(Figure 5.2). The Engineering Division (ED) is responsible for planning,
design, bid documentation and assessment, and supervision of construction of
all project works, including tubewells; for operation and maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage systems; and for providing technical assistance to
farmers for on-farm development works. Under the project, the units within
the ED would be increased from two to three, each under an Executive Engineer,
to increase the division's capability in operation, maintenance and repair of
project equipment; workshop and stores administration; planning of irrigation
development, operation and maintenance programs; monitoring of costs and pro-
gress; arranging regular technical training, and liaison with the agricultural
staff as well as other development agencies. The Agriculture Division (AD),
which is already responsible for the intensified extension services, field
training and coordination of agricultural inputs in Parsa and Bara Districts,
would extend its activities into Rautahat District under the project. The
Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO) already appointed under Stage I would be in
technical charge of the extension programs in the above three Districts under
,the project. The Administrative Division is responsible for personnel, con-
tract procurement, land acquisition, water charge assessment and general
administration of the Birganj project headquarters. The Finance Division
is responsible for project budgeting, finance, internal audit, stores and
inventory control of equipment and supplies.
5.05      Coordination between the project and the various agencies concerned
would be through existing District and Regional Coordination Committees. These
committees provide opportunities for various agencies to confer on rural
development, road construction or improvement, agricultural input and credit
supplies, marketing and power supplies. Coordination committees would invite
a project representative when matters of direct concern to the project are on
meeting agenda. Executive action would subsequently be taken by the agencies'
local representatives in consultation with project management.
Organization of Community Tubewells
5.06      Project and ADBN staff have carried out preliminary surveys to locate
communities of farmers who would be willing to take loans under the proposed
pilot, privately-owned, community tubewells schemes (para 3.08). The cost of
a deep tubewell installation to supply 120 ha (about 40-80 farms) is estimated
at NRs 988,000; a shallow tubewell for supplying 10 ha (about 4-8 farms) would
cost approximately NRs 105,000. Each farmer in a tubewell command area would
obtain a loan from ADBN for 90% of his share of the cost, in proportion to the
size of his holding under the command of the tubewell. Loans for deep tubewell
installations would bear an interest rate of 11%, with 20 years for repayment



- 28 -
including a 2-year grace period; loans for shallow tubewells would also carry
11% interest, with repayment in 7 years including an 18-month grace period.
ADBN's collateral would be either the land title, or the hypothecated part of
each farmer's crop. These terms would be consistent with the current rates
for such loans in Nepal. 1/  Detailed preparations for the scheme are being
made by ADBN which intends to arrange both group and individual loans for the
tubewell installations, and would monitor the socio-economic and operational
results of both types of arrangement. When loan applications for each tube-
well have been approved by ADBN, the ED would survey, design, obtain easements
for and construct the tubewell and distribution channels; construct access
roads; supervise the installation of lesser channels by farmers; arrange for
power transmission lines by the Nepal Electricity Department; and certify the
completion, testing and cost of each tubewell to ADBN. ADBN would then specify
and collect repayments from groups and individuals (para 7.10).
Farmers' Organization
5.07      Farmers would participate in the implementation, operation and main-
tenance of the project through Water Users' Groups (WUGs), organized by project
staff, similar to those successfully formed in Stage I. In the surface irri-
gation area, each WUG would be established within a tertiary outlet command,
serving groups of farms of about 40 to 50 ha, before water is delivered. Under
the pilot community tubewell scheme, each tubewell would have its own WUG.
Each WUG would be represented by a leader and deputies, elected by farmers.
These representatives would work with the project staff in mobilizing farmers
to construct field channels and drains, and to operate and maintain the irri-
gation system below the tertiary outlet in the surface area, or the tubewell
and its distribution system in the pilot community tubewell scheme.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
5.08      Surface Irrigation System.  With the benefit of in-service training
to be provided by the consultants, project staff would be capable of operating
and maintaining all project works effectively. As in Stage I, water distri-
bution to farms would be based on timed rotational deliveries, proportional
to the size of individual holdings within the tertiary outlet command. Before
each crop season, a program of water allocations and distribution timetables
would be formulated and agreed by the project staff and representatives of the
WUGs concerned. The ED would release water down to tertiary outlets according
to the agreed program, and distribution of water beyond these outlets would be
carried out by the concerned WUGs (para 5.07). An assurance has been obtained
from HMGN that water would only be made available on a regular basis to the
area commanded by a tertiary when the WUG has been formed, field channels
constructed, and satisfactory distribution routines established. Deliveries
1/   The average annual rate of inflation during the last three years was about
6.7%. There are indications that the rate of inflation would increase
slightly in the future. Historical price index in the Terai for the
last twelve years gives an annual rate of inflation of about 7%. Thus,
a rate of 7% is projected for the next three years. This would result
in a real rate of interest 4%.



- 29 -
to farms would be measured on a random sample basis by the Monitoring Unit of
the ED, to check that WUGs would distribute supplies equitably (Annex 2).
The ED would also prepare annual irrigated land assessments for water charges,
which would be collected from farmers annually by the Revenue Department.
5.09      The ED would be responsible for the preparation of maintenance
schedules for all canals, structures and tubewells, with the assistance of
the project consultants. It would prepare a comprehensive Operation and
Maintenance Manual, to be transmitted in draft to IDA by June 1, 1979,
and in final form by October 1, 1980. An assurance has been obtained to this
effect. The ED would maintain the canal network down to tertiary outlets.
Such maintenance would include regular desilting and weed clearance from
canals to maintain the designed discharge capacities throughout the system.
Beyond the tertiary outlets, the maintenance of channels and drains would be
the responsibility of WUGs under the supervision of project staff. Assurances
have been obtained that (a) HMGN would exchange views with IDA yearly on the
amount of funds required for O&M and (b) HMGN would submit to IDA, not later
than July 31 in each year its O&M budget for the NEC system.
5.10      Community Tubewells:  To familiarize farmers with the O&M of each
tubewell, the NZIDB would train the operators and would carry out the O&M tasks
during the first year, and would phase out this responsibility within two
years. Subsequently, each WUG would control its own tubewell scheme, with
occasional supervision and O&M assistance from the project staff and the ADBN.
The project's Agricultural Division would provide intensive extension services
to farmers in the scheme; coordinate the demand and supply of inputs and sea-
sonal credit with AIC, the Sajha Cooperatives, and ADBN; compile annual data
on the irrigated cropping intensities and yields achieved in the pilot scheme,
and evaluate the results. Repayment dues would be collected by ADBN.
Agricultural Extension, Training and Research
5.11      The Regional Directors of Agriculture would be responsible for the
technical content of extension programs in the six Districts 1/, while execu-
tion of these programs and their administration would be vested in the GM and
Project Managers of the three on-going, IDA-assisted project Boards (para
5.02), as shown in Figure 5.1. Coordination of extension activities with
agricultural input and marketing needs, as well as irrigation development,
in the six Districts would be synchronized through existing District Coor-
dinating Committees (DCCs). Administrative action by ADBN, AIC, Sajha
cooperatives and marketing units would be taken at the working level through
their local managements and production estimates provided by project staff,
and in consultation with the Agricultural Division.
5.12      Extension activities, administered by each project Board, would be
organized, planned and supervised by the Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO)
already appointed to the Stage I Project, the Agricultural Officer (AO) to
1/   Rupandehi District (West Region), Parsa, Bara and Rautahat Districts
(Central Region), and Sunsari and Morang Districts (Eastern Region).



- 30 -
the BLGP and a SAO to be appointed to the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drain-
age Development Project. While SAOs and AO would be administratively respon-
sible to their respective Project Managers, they would report on technical
matters to their respective RDA.  Coordination among the three boards with
respect to agricultural issues would be established through the Department of
Agriculture. At least five Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), experienced in
cereals, other crops and plant protection, water management and agricultural
economics, would be deputed by DA to each of the three projects, to take part
in the training programs (para 5.13), and to consolidate the linkage with
research (para 5.14). SMSs would report to project SAO/AOs. At District
level, extension activities would be the responsibility of six District
Agricultural Development Officers (DADOs) under the supervision of the
respective AOs and SAO (Figure 5.1). Staff under each DADO would comprise
Junior Technicians (JTs) who would be in charge of District sub-centers,
Junior Technician Assistants (JTAs), Panchayat Level Assistants (PLAs) and, in
tubewell irrigated areas, Unit Level Assistants, (ULAs). Each PLA would cover
about 1,700 cropped ha, or about 750 farm families living in nine Wards; each
ULA would cover three deep tubewell commands with a cropped area of 700 ha, or
about 450 families farming in three Wards. Each JTA would supervise 5 to 7
PLAs or ULAs, and each JT would supervise 2 to 3 JTAs. The present and future
staffing requirements are summarized in para 5.15.
5.13      In support of staff training, the existing facilities of the Janakpur
Training Center, in the Central Region, would be used to provide pre-service
training of PLAs, in-service training for JTs and JTAs, refresher courses
for SMSs and courses in training techniques for AOs, DADOs and SMSs. The
Center, headed by an Agricultural Training Officer (ATO), is administered by
the Central Region Directorate of Agriculture. To augment the Janakpur
training facility and to prepare for the needs of nationwide expansion of the
T&V extension system, another regional training center is under construction
at Bhairawa in the West Region of the Terai, and a third center would be built
under the project in Sunsari District in the Eastern Region. Each of these
centers would be administered by an ATO of the regional directorate, and all
three centers would be placed under the guidance and supervision of a Senior
Agricultural Training Officer (SATO), responsible to the Deputy Director
General, Agricultural Extension and Training (Figure 5.3). A vital component
of the training program would be that key training staff must have a knowledge
of communication techniques and effective training practices. This activity
would be given high priority since, without this knowledge, most training
would probably be ineffective, whatever the quality of technical advice that
SMSs have to offer. Provision would be made under the project for a consultant
to establish this component and the training program as rapidly as possible at
Janakpur Training Center (para 3.15). Courses would be given mainly by
instructors from nearby research stations. 1/ In each District, regular
refresher and pre-season courses for JTs and JTAs as well as fortnightly
training of PLAs would be carried out by SMSs at the 30 District sub-centers.
Short-and medium-term overseas fellowships for some extension officers would
form part of the training component (Annex 1).
1/   Hardinath Experimental Station, Janakpur Agricultural and Horticultural
Stations, Bhairawa Research Station, Parwanipur Research Station and
Tarahara Research Station.



-31 -
5.14      Research.  Activities of research stations in the Terai 1/ would be
closely linked with extension and training in the six Districts through the
office of each of the three concerned Regional Directors of Agriculture, and
would involve the project SAO, AOs and DADOs, the SATO, staff from research
stations, and project SMSs. At the end of each cropping season the three
regional research groups would review the evaluated results of adaptive re-
search and produce technical recommendations applicable to specific cropping
conditions prevailing in each of the six Districts, with particular reference
to irrigation. The regional research groups would also prepare annual pro-
grams for field trials to be carried out by project agricultural divisions on
farms within each District and which would also serve as farmer demonstrations.
Trials would focus on problems faced by farmers, such as seedbed preparation
for wheat after paddy in low-lying and poorly drained land; seeding rates for
wheat and maize applicable to various sowing dates; the rates and timing of
fertilizer applications; irrigation intervals, and water management techniques
in tubewell and surface water commands.
Staffing and Training
5.15      Staffing.  The technical staff needed to carry out the irrigation
component would be approximately the same as for Stage I, and would be as
follows:
Number of Staff in Post (4 yrs only)
Staff                    FY78/79  FY79/80  FY80/81  FY81/82
Engineering
Superintending Engineer,
Engineering Division         1          1         1        1
Executive Engineers             2         3         3        3
Assistant Engineers            17        17        13       13
Overseers                     40         37        30       28
Staff appointment of the extension component would be completed within two
years (Figure 3.2), with the existing and future requirements for the six
Districts summarized below:
1/   Hardinath Experimental Station, Janakpur Agricultural and Horticultural
Stations, Bhairawa Research Station, Parwanipur Research Station and
Tarahara Research Station.



-32-
Project
Agriculture                       Present   Requirement   Incremental
Senior Agricultural Officers            1            2             1
Senior Agricultural Training Officer  -              1              1
Agricultural Officers                   1            1              -
Agricultural Training Officers          1            3              2
District Agricultural
Development Officers                  6            6             -
Subject Matter Specialists              8           15             7
Junior Technicians                     41           30             -
Junior Technician Assistants           60           82             22
Panchayat Level Assistants            192          509           317
Training Center Staff                  -            20             20
An assurance has been obtained from HMGN that the project would be adequately
staffed in accordance with a staffing plan satisfactory to IDA. The above
staffing plan would serve as a guideline and would be reviewed periodically
in the light of requirements.
5.16      Training Program.  In addition to the on-the-job training provided
by project consultants, a provisional program for formal in-service and short-
term overseas training of engineering, agricultural and administrative staff
has been formulated (Annex 1).  An assurance has been obtained that HMGN would
carry out training under the project in accordiance with a plan satisfactory to
IDA. To carry out this program HMGN would be assisted by consultants, and
possibly also by international and bilateral agencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      The engineering staff would be responsible for monitoring the irri-
gation component of the project. The work would include: (a) continuous
testing of materials and the quality achieved in civil works, under the super-
vision of the project consultants who would carry out about 10% of the tests
themselves; (b) monitoring of the project implementation progress and costs
of the works; (c) measurements of canal discharges and losses, and tubewell
deliveries; (d) quantities and timing of water deliveries to, and within farm
groups; and (e) monthly observation of the depth to watertable from ground
level. The agricultural staff in the six Districts would be responsible for
compiling annually data on the changes in cropping patterns and yields in the
irrigated and rainfed areas.
5.18      Bench mark surveys of present farm practices, cropping pattern,
yields and characteristics of farm households were carried out during project
preparation. To provide a measure of progress and to evaluate the changes
in the farming scene as a result of the project, the Evaluation and Project
Analysis Division (EPAD) of the DA, assisted by consultants, would carry out
studies at appropriate intervals. This Division has staff capable of carrying
out such surveys, and has already completed several similar studies satis-
factorily for various agricultural projects in Nepal. Staff funding and the
scope of such studies, as proposed in Annex 2, would be discussed during
negotiations. Based on the annual agricultural monitoring reports and the



- 33 -
surveys, EPAD would prepare two comprehensive evaluation reports to be sub-
mitted to IDA by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1986. An assurance has been
obtained to this effect. The NZIDB would prepare a project completion report,
with a coverage proposed in Annex 2, within six months after final disburse-
ments of the Credit. An assurance has been obtained to this effect.



- 34 -
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Cropping Pattern and Yields
6.01      The project would provide reliable irrigation deliveries in the
surface water area of 12,700 ha in Stage II of the NEC command, except
when the canal is closed for maintenance in two periods totalling six weeks
in the year (April/May and November). In the pilot community tubewell area
of 800 ha, however, the water supply would not need to be interrupted for
this purpose. With the greatly improved reliability and lower distribution
losses which would result from the project, the NEC water supply would enable
farmers to increase the area of paddy (which is expected to remain the domi-
nant crop), and to shift from late to early HYVs. This shift in paddy crop-
ping would also encourage the timely planting and increase in area of wheat
in the dry season, and thus raise the total cropping intensity by about 15%.
6.02      Based on district statistics, an agro-economic survey by NZIDB in
1976 and discussions with agricultural staff and farmers, the estimated average
present and projected per ha yields and cropping patterns which would be ex-
pected with improved irrigation and extension services, are presented in
Table 6.1 and summarized below:
Present    Future Without Project        Future With Project
Surface      Groundwater
Area  Yields         Area  Yields      Area  Yield    Area  Yield
%   (tons/ha)       %   (tons/ha)    %   (tons/ha)   %  (tons/ha)
Early
Paddy (HYV)   20    2.2            20      2.3       30      3.2      30    3.2
Middle Paddy    30    1.3             30     1.4       35       2.5     35    2.5
Late Paddy
(HYV)          40    2.2           40      2.3       35      3.2      35    3.2
Wheat            40    1.3            40     1.5       48       2.6     45    2.6
Pulses           10      .6           10      .6       15        .8     10      .8
Oilseeds          6      .3            6      .4        6        .7      5      .7
Vegetables        4    5.7             4     8.0        4      15.0      4   15.0
Sugarcane        10   22.0            10    30.0       10     40.0      15   40.0
Maize             -      -             -               -         -      15    2.5
Cropping
Intensity (%) 160                  160              183               194
In the "future without project" situation, no significant change would be
expected from the present cropping pattern, except for a slight increase in
yields. In future with the project, a fully developed irrigation distribu-
tion system to the farm level, coupled with intensified extension services,
would enable farmers to utilize water more efficiently. This would result in
a rapid build-up of yields. Tests in the neighboring Hardinath Demonstration
Farm show that paddy yields can reach 6 tons per ha and wheat, 3.5 tons per ha.
Sugarcane grown at the Parwanipur Research Station yields about 60 to 70 tons



- 35 -
per ha. Thus, the projected yields under the project (55-75% of research
station yields) are reasonable.
6.03      The overall cropping intensity under the project would be about
184%. The community tubewell area would be cropped more intensively (194%)
than in the surface water area (183%) since water supplies would not be
interrupted for a month during the canal maintenance period. This would
allow the cultivation of a maize crop which has a growing season coinciding
with the closure of the surface irrigation system in April/May. Likewise,
perennial crops such as sugarcane would be grown more intensively in the
tubewell area than in the NEC command due to more frequent distribution of
water.
6.04      The enlargement of the total cropped area as a result of the in-
creased cropping intensities is included in Table 6.1 and is expected to be
as follows:
Total Cropped Area
Net                             With Project
cultivated        Present            (184% average   Increase
Irrigation area       area, ha   (160% intensity), ha   intensity), ha        ha
Surface water area   12,700             20,300              23,300           3,000
Community tubewells      800             1,300               1,600              300
Total            13,500            21,600              24,900           3,300
The agricultural production benefits from the project would mainly accrue
from the 15% increase in cropped area and the rise in cereal yields. Some
benefits would accrue in rainfed areas outside of Stage II as a result of
improved extension services. Experience elsewhere indicates that farmers
who follow extension advice may increase their yields by 10 to 20%. However,
since it is difficult to estimate the number of farmers who would follow
extension advice, no attempt has been made to quantify the extent of these
benefits.
Agricultural Production
6.05      Using the foregoing cropping patterns and yields projections, the
annual incremental production at full development (about mid-1980's) is
expected to be as follows:



- 36 -
Future Without      Future With        Incremental
Project           Project          Production
'000 tons        '000 tons           '000 tons
(1)               (2)                  (3)
Rice /a                 15.8             25.8                  10.0
Wheat                    8.2              17.3                  9.1
Maize                    -                 0.3                  0.3
Pulses                   0.8               1.6                  0.8
Total Foodgrains      24.8             45.0                  20.2
Sugarcane               42.0             56.8                  14.8
Oilseeds                 0.3              0.6                   0.3
Vegetables               4.8               9.1                  4.3
/a   Converted from paddy production at a milling ratio of 65%.
Input Requirements
6.06      Present and projected input requirements are presented in Table 6.2.
The present cultivation system is based on low input, risk minimizing culti-
vation practices. Farmers are not willing to invest heavily in chemical fer-
tilizers and pesticides under rainfed or unpredictable water supply situation.
Instead, they either apply insufficient amount of chemical fertilizers or use
farm-yard manure. Land preparation is carried out by manual labor with animal
power and simple implements. Under "future without project" situation, only
limited changes in cultivation practices are assumed to take place. With
reliable irrigation and effective agricultural extension services, farmers
are likely to use more high-yielding varieties which would require greater
amounts of fertilizer and pesticides. As the AIC and Sajha cooperatives have
been expanding input supply facilities in the project area, these increases
in input demand would be adequately met. As a result of the project, labor
requirements would increase from some 2.4 M man-days at present to 8.1 M
man-days which would be covered by projected labor supply of 9.7 M man-days
at full development. During the months of June and July, the peak demand
for hired labor would be provided for by migrant labor from the neighboring
Indian State of Bihar and from the Hills, where unemployment is severe.
Market Prospects
6.07      The main agricultural products marketed in the project area are
cereals (rice, wheat) and sugarcane. Until access to the Hills and incomes
of the Hills population can be greatly improved, India would continue to be
the major market outlet for absorbing surplus from the Terai, including the
project-related increase of 20,200 tons of foodgrains. No market outlet prob-
lems are envisaged for Nepalese rice in the near future. However, when India
achieves food self-sufficiency, Nepal might have to explore alternative
markets and this would oblige Nepal to cultivate better rice varieties which
would be competitive in international markets. Research is being carried out



- 37 -
at Parwanipur Researh Station to improve rice qualities in Nepal. A sugar
mill in the project area is operated below capacity and there would be no
difficulty in processing the increased amount of sugarcane. Furthermore, in
view of the present low annual per capita consumption of the sugar in the
Terai (3 kg compared to 5 or 6 kg in India and Pakistan), the project-related
increase would be easily absorbed in domestic markets. Other crops such as
oilseeds, pulses and vegetables will continue to be in deficit in Nepal, and
the amount generated by the project is relatively small compared to total
demand.
Prices
6.08      Economic Prices.  For economic analysis, the estimated future
farm gate prices of internationally traded agricultural inputs and outputs
have been derived from the Bank's projected 1985 world market prices
(expressed in 1977 currency values) with appropriate adjustments for freight,
handling and processing. The economic prices of pulses and vegetables, which
are not traded internationally, have been derived by applying the long-term
average ratio between the financial prices of these crops and paddy to the
projected economic price of paddy. In order to take into account the exist-
ing import and export taxes, as well as trade restrictiQns, a Standard Con-
version Factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been applied to the non-traded component of
various inputs and outputs; this is approximately consistent to a shadow ex-
change rate of NRs 13.30. Details on the methodology for deriving economic
prices and SCF are given in Annex 3.
6.09      Financial Prices.  The main determinants of farm-gate prices have
been the domestic supply and demand position, local weather conditions and
prevailing cross border prices. A high degree of uncertainty in these para-
meters makes the task of projecting financial prices particularly difficult.
In addition, the historical data on wholesale prices for all crops are not
available. Consequently, for consistency, the average of farm gate prices
prevailing in the last two years has been used.



- 38 -
6.10      Prices for economic and financial analysis are summarized below:
Crops                     Unit          Economic Prices   Financial Prices
Paddy, rice                  NRs/ton           2,200                1,400
Wheat                        NRs/ton           2,200                1,600
Oilseeds                     NRs/ton           3,900                3,500
Sugarcane                    NRs/ton             360                  230
Vegetables                   NRs/ton           1,800                1,500
Pulses                       NRs/ton           3,500                2,500
Maize                        NRs/ton            1,800               1,800
Inputs
Nitrogen /a                  NRs/ton           5,600                5,300
Phosphate /a                 NRs/ton           3,600                4,500
Potash /a                    NRs/ton           2,100                2,600
Farm Labor                   (NRs/md)               3  /b               5
Animal Power                 (NRs/ad)               4                   5
/a   These are derived from economic prices of Urea, Triple Superphospates,
and Muriate of Potash, respectively.
/b   This represents average incremental cost of labor per man-day; the
methodology for deriving economic cost of labor is presented in
Annex 3.



- 39 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
General
7.01      Analyses have been carried out to determine:  (a) the farm incomes
for representative farm sizes in order to establish whether, under the pro-
ject, incomes would be sufficient to compensate farmers for the production
costs incurred; (b) the distributional impact of the project and the change
in income distribution in the project area; and (c) the ability of farmers
to pay water charges. Results are presented in the following paragraphs.
Farm Budgets
7.02      Based on the district statistics and the farm survey of the area,
the following land distribution and family size are estimated.
Farm Size        Farm Households   Cultivated Area    Family Size
(ha)                 (%)                 (%)          (No. of people)
Below 0.15                8                  1                 4.1
0.15 - 0.5               31                 10                  4.7
0.5  - 1.0               25                 17                  5.2
1.0  - 3.0              30                  48                  6.7
Over 3.0                  6                 24                  8.4
0o0                100
Average farm size (weighted)    2.3 ha
Average family size (weighted)  5.5 people
Three representative farm sizes have been chosen for estimating farm budgets
of three groups: (a) 0.67 ha (1 bigha), representing small farmers, amounting
to about 64% of total farmers; (b) 2 ha, representing medium farmers (30%);
and (c) 5 ha, representing larger farmers (6%). Estimates of farm incomes are
presented in Table 7.1 and summarized below:
---------- Net Farm Incomes (NRs) /a ----------------
Farm                          Future Without          Future With
Size (ha)      Present (P)        Project (W)           Project (W)
Surface   Groundwater
0.67          1,830               2,030          3,400        3,650
2.00          4,660               5,340         9,830        10,040
5.00         11,170              13,190        22,470       23,700
a/   In calculating net-farm incomes, cash payments for seeds, fertilizer,
plant protection, hired labor, rental charge of bullocks and irrigation
costs are included as production costs (Table 6.2).



- 40 -
7.03      The effect of irrigation, provided under the project, would change
farm incomes (after deduction of irrigation costs) as follows:
Farm Size      Incremental Income (W-W)      Relative Increase  W-W
ha                    NRs                         %           W
Surface      Groundwater      Surface       Groundwater
0.67        1,370           1,620            67              80
2.00        4,490           4,700            84              88
5.00        9,280          10,510            70              80
As a result of the project, net farm incomes would increase about 70-80% in
the surface area and about 80-90% in the groundwater area at full development.
Distribution Effect
7.04      Farm income figures, which include the imputed value of home con-
sumption estimated at farm gate prices, have been adjusted for the difference
between farm gate prices and local retail prices to determine the distribu-
tional effect. Furthermore, non-farm incomes and other charges, besides pro-
duction cost, have been included in the analysis.  As a result of the project,
the average per capita income of farmers within the project area would increase
from NRs 940 (US$75) to NRs 1,440 (US$120), about the national per capita
income. The anticipated change in income distribution is presented below:
Percentage of Farm Households
Net per capita income          Percentage of Farm Households
(in 1977 prices)                       Future With-    Future
Present     out Project   With Project
Less than:
Minimum Subsistence
Requirements (NRs 780) /a      80            75              30
Critical Consumption
Level (NRs 960) /b             95            86              55
The project would alleviate the poverty in the area, as only 30% of farm
households would have incomes less than NRs 780 (US$65) compared to about 80%
at present.
/a   Assuming the rural minimum level of living (absolute poverty level)
estimated for the neighboring state of Uttar Pradesh of Indian rupees
14.50 (NRs 21.00) in 1960-61 prices.
b/   Estimated at about two-thirds of the average per capita income.



- 41 -
Cost Recovery
7.05      HMGN and NZIDB have made commendable efforts in irrigation cost
recovery. The Nepal Irrigation Act of 1967 enables water charges to be
levied from users of public works for surface and tubewell irrigation. Since
1975, the rate of water charge has been rapidly increased from NRs 6 to
NRs 60 per ha per crop for all surface irrigation systems in Nepal. In part
of the groundwater development area of Stage I (para 2.04) the irrigation
tubewell supply, started in 1976, has been much more reliable than elsewhere
in Nepal. Consequently in 1977 NZIDB applied a tubewell water charge of
NRs 100 per ha per crop, equivalent to NRs 180 per ha per year at the present
cropping intensity of 180%. Despite the higher rate, 95% of the beneficiaries
paid their dues (para 2.06), and NZIDB has already applied this rate in the
surface water area of Stage I, starting in 1978.
7.06      Surface Irrigation System.  The capital cost of the project irriga-
tion works in 12,700 ha in the surface water area would amount to NRs 8,000
(US$666) per ha. The recovery of this cost over 50 years at 10% interest
would require an annual payment of NRs 810 per ha. O&M costs after completion
of the project would amount to NRs 90 per ha per year (Table 4.2). Conse-
quently, the amount needed to recover the capital and O&M costs and interest
charges would be NRs 900 per ha per year at 1977 prices. The rate of NRs 180
per ha per year to be charged initially by NZIDB (para 7.05) would cover the
O&M costs of the surface water area and about 10% of the repayment of its
capital cost and interest charges. However, HMGN has indicated that it aims
at recovering as much as possible of the capital costs of the irrigation
systems with a view to increase its resources available for investment in
development projects.
7.07      For an assessment of farmers' ability and willingness to pay water
charges in the surface water area, the project rent 1/ has been estimated
(Table 7.2). Rent and recovery indices for alternative levels of water
charge are presented below:
1/   The project rent is equal to net incremental income less the necessary
rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship and cultiva-
tion risk.



- 42 -
Rent         Cost
Surface Irrigation           Annual    Recovery       Recovery
Alternative Water Charges        Char e      Index   /a   Index   /b
(NRs7ha)      %              %
I.    Present Policy
A charge to cover
full O&M cost and
10% of capital cost              180          9             20
II.   Full Cost Recovery
A charge to cover
all O&M cost as well
as capital cost                  900         45            100
/a   Rent Recovery Index:  Ratio of water charge to project rent
/b   Cost Recovery Index:  Ratio of water charges to annual O&M and capital
cost (at 10% interest, repaid over 50 years).
7.08      The analysis indicates that on average, there is a scope for full
cost recovery. However, this would require a fivefold increase of the water
charges. In practice, an increase of this magnitude can only be introduced
gradually over time. Furthermore, the land distribution in the project area
is heavily skewed (para 7.02). About 65% of the farm households are sub-
sistence farmers whose present income levels are about 45% of the national
average and even after the project, their incomes would remain below the
national average. Full cost recovery would impose an unduly heavy burden
on these small farmers. On the other hand, medium and large farmers, with
incomes after the project well above the national average, would be able to
pay a higher level of charges. Although there would be a justification for
collecting water charges on a progressive basis, there are practical problems
that hinder the implementation of such charges in a near future:
(a)  the land records are incomplete;
(b)  large farms are usually associated with large extended
families and thus, the implementation of such charges
may encourage fragmentation of holdings;
(c)  difficulty of enforcing the charges, particularly as
Nepal does not have adequate manpower to administrative
such a complex program.
7.09      Against this background, assurances have been obtained from HMGN
that, not later than one year after completion of the works in each block
of the project, it would establish and collect water charges to (a) cover the
O&M cost of the works as they are incurred, and (b) recover, in progressive
steps over a reasonable period to time, the investment cost of the project
to the fullest extent possible, having due regard to the farmers' ability to



- 43 -
pay, the necessary incentives for their participation in the project, and
the need for public savings to finance other development activities. HMGN
would review and adjust water charges, after consultation with IDA, not
less than once every three years. During negotiations HMGN indicated its
intention to charge in the Stage II area initially also a water rate of
NRs 100 ha per crop.
7.10      Tubewell Irrigation.  The present rate of NRs 100 per ha per crop
charged for public tubewell water in Stage I (para 7.05) covers only about
60% of O&M costs (NRs 300 per ha per year). NZIDB therefore intends to in-
crease the rate gradually until it also covers a significant part of the cost
of capital repayment and interest charges on deep tubewell irrigation facil-
ities. Under the proposed project, farmers would obtain loans to finance the
cost of the proposed community tubewell scheme except for irrigation distri-
bution channels, transmission lines and access tracks which would be funded
by HMGN as a incentive to private investment. An assurance has been obtained
to this effect. The terms of ADBN tubewell loans and annual repayments would
be as follows:
Repayment of Community Tubewell Loans
Deep Tubewell,       Shallow Tubewell,
Item                     (120 ha command)       (10 ha command)
Capital cost (full)                   NRs 988,000            NRs 105,200
Capital cost for purpose
of loans                           NRs 326,000             NRs  16,100
Capital cost/ha                       NRs   8,230            NRs   1,610
Repayment period                         20 years                7 years
Grace period                              2 years              18 months
Interest rate                                 11%                    11%
Annual capital repayment
and interest/ha                    NRs      350             NRs   400
Annual O&M cost/ha
(Table 4.2)                        NRs      300             Nrs   380
Total annual payment/ha               NRs     650              NRs   780
The effect on farmers' ability and willingness to pay is presented below:
Type of      Annual Cost    Project          Rent Recovery
Tubewell      to Farmer       Rent                 Index
--- NRs per ha ----            -   % ----
Shallow         650           2,500                 26
Deep            780           2,500                 31



- 44 -
7.11      The loans on tubewell development would be repaid in nominal terms.
Thus the real level of cost recovery would depend on the future rate of
inflation. Based on the historical wholesale price index of rice in the
Terai, the annual rate of inflation is estimated at 7%. For this analysis,
the same rate is assumed for the repayment period of the tubewells. The
effect of inflation on cost recovery of tubewells would be as follows:
Rate of Inflation             Cost Recovery Index
Deep         Shallow
0%                     55            31
7%                     41            25
7.12      Although the annual payment by the farmers would be much higher than
in the case of surface water irrigation, tubewell development may still be
sufficiently attractive since the farmer in the proposed tubewell area has no
access to surface water supply and his only alternative would be to continue
rainfed farming. Furthermore the farmer would be assured of a reliable water
supply in contrast to surface water irrigation since the water supply would
be completely under his or the WUG's control. However, there is also the
possibility that farmers might not participate in private groundwater devel-
opment, particularly when local farmers benefiting from public tubewells are
currently paying only NRs 180 per ha per year. For this reason, the ground-
water component has been kept small, as a pilot program with significant
government subsidy to attract farmers' interest. More importantly, this pilot
scheme can be used to (a) monitor the interest of farmers in group loans for
tubewells; and (b) test farmer's willingness to pay and thus to assist HMGN in
establishing appropriate water charges for the public tubewells in Stage I and
in the surface irrigation system of the project.



- 45 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
General
8.01      Agriculture in the Stage II surface and groundwater areas is pre-
sently heavily dependent on rain. Although the present cropping intensity is
relatively high (160%), yields are low due to poorly distributed and unpredict-
able precipitation and flooding. The project would reduce this dependence on
rainfall and simultaneously accelerate agricultural development in the area
through the provision of a reliable water supply, improved drainage and agri-
cultural supporting services. Equally important, the project would assist
HMGN in achieving other objectives: (a) to increase foodgrain production at
relatively low cost; (b) to provide additional employment opportunities to
landless laborers and small farmers; and (c) to initiate exploration of ground-
water for irrigation at minimum cost to the Government.
8.02      Project benefits would be generated from:  (a) full scale irrigation
development of the Stage II area (12,700 ha) and groundwater development of
800 ha, leading to improved yields and an increase of 3,300 ha (15%) in the
cropped area under irrigation as a result of a rise in the average cropping
intensity from 160% to 184%; (b) upgrading the works constructed under Stage I
area (16,000 ha) to the standards to be implemented under Stage II; and (c)
strengthened agricultural extension, training and research. Agricultural
benefits from (b) are difficult to quantify since the upgraded works, costing
less than US$1 M, would be interdependent on other works constructed under
Stage I. Similarly, the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension
and research. Consequently, the economic analysis of the project has been
concentrated on the Stage II area where a full package of project components
would be provided.
Production Benefits
8.03      The annual production increase, due to the project, is estimated at
20,200 tons of foodgrains, 14,800 tons of sugarcane, 300 tons of oilseeds
and 4,300 tons of vegetables at full development . Additional annual foreign
exchange earnings from the increased foodgrains exports would reach US$1 M.
There would also be some import substitution savings of about US$0.5 M per
year from the increased production of sugarcane and oilseeds.
Employment Benefits
8.04      Increased labor requirements would be generated primarily by a more
intensive use of land in the Stage II area. Taking into account the growth in
farm employment that would probably occur without the project, about 2,000
additional full time agricultural jobs would be created under the project.
Most of the additional employment opportunities would benefit the landless
laborers and smallholders (less than 1 ha) which account for about two-thirds
of the farm population in the Stage II area. Furthermore, the increased
agricultural production would generate additional income and employment in



- 46 -
local non-farm sectors such as marketing, transport and processing. Based
on experience from similar areas in Asia, this would increase non-farm
employment by about 1,000 man-years at full development. The project would
also generate about 1.7 M man-days of construction employment over a four-
year period.
Intangible Benefits
8.05      Shortage of trained staff has been a major constraint on agricul-
tural development in Nepal. Through the provision of technical assistance
and training programs in various agricultural disciplines, the project would
help to relieve this deficiency. More importantly, the experimental works
in the community groundwater scheme (para 3.08) are aimed at building up an
organizational structure conducive to private investment in groundwater in
the Terai. The success of this program would pave the way for more intensive
development of groundwater north of NEC command area where water resources
and power supplies are not likely to be major constraints.
Environmental Effect
8.06      With the extension of the irrigation distribution and drainage
system down to the farm level and provision of appropriate regulating struc-
tures, there will be less ponding of waste water in the area. In addition,
the drainage network would be greatly improved to reduce innundation and to
minimize waterlogging. As a result, there would be a reduction in locations
which are malaria prone.
Economic Evaluation
8.07      Assumptions underlying the economic evaluation of the surface area
(12,700 ha) and groundwater area (800 ha) are presented in detail in Annex 3.
Shadow rates have been used (a) to correct price distortions of non-traded
goods caused by tariffs and trade restrictions; and (b) to reflect seasonal
characteristics in the labor market. The economic cost of all civil works,
equipment, administration and engineering, and operation and maintenance 1/
of both surface irrigation and tubewells have been included in the derivation
of the economic rates of return (ERRs). Discounting costs and benefits over a
30-year period, the ERR of the proposed project is 22%. In addition, separate
economic analysis have been performed for the groundwater component. The
analysis shows that both deep and shallow tubewells are economically viable
since the ERRs are estimated at 33% and 21%, respectively. Economic cost
and benefit streams are presented in Table 8.1 and 8.2.
Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
8.08      Sensitivity analysis has been used to illustrate the risk associated
with various factors:
1/   Including cost of extension, estimated at NRs 110 per ha.



- 47 -
Economic Rate of Return
(a)  Basic Case                                                22%
(b)  Assuming SCF = 1                                          20%
(c)  Assuming market wage rate for labor                       19%
(d)  Construction costs increase by 50%                        16%
(e)  Decrease in projected crop yields by 10%                  17%
(f)  Decrease in output prices by 20%                          17%
(g)  Full benefits reaches 5 years later                       21%
(h)  Construction is delayed by 3 years                       20%
Ci)  Combination of (d), (e) and (f)                           10%
8.09      The results shows that there is a moderate sensitivity, to the
increase in construction costs as well as assumptions in estimating projected
yields and output prices. The project would remain viable, even with an
extreme combination of a 50% increase in construction costs, 10% decrease
in projected yield (with project), and a 20% decrease in output prices.
8.10      A possible risk associated with the project is that the watertable
in low-lying areas of NEC command might eventually rise to such high levels as
to reduce dry season crop yields. Although neither widespread waterlogging
nor salinity problems are necessarily expected to occur, the project would
provide for monitoring of the watertable (Annex 2) to provide early warning
of any such hazard. In the event that temporary waterlogging occurs on a
significant scale, the introduction of cash crops with a lower water require-
ment than paddy may have to be encouraged. A feasibility study of processing
and marketing of such crops, such as groundnuts and soybeans, is to be carried
out under the on-going Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Project.



- 48 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances have been received from HMGN that:.
(a) agricultural consultants whose qualifications and experience
in extension and training would be satisfactory to IDA,
would be appointed to the project by NZIDB on terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA by April 30,
1979 (para 3.15);
(b) the GM of NZIDB, ADBN and the Department of Agriculture would:
(i) establish and maintain separate accounts for the project
in accordance with sound accounting practices; (ii) ensure
that these accounts would be audited annually by an independ-
ent auditor acceptable to IDA; and (iii) send the certified
copies of the audited accounts and the auditor's reports
to IDA within six months after the close of each fiscal year
(para 4.11);
(c) the post of General Manager would continue to be filled by
NZIDB throughout the project period by an official having
technical qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA and NZIDB (para 5.03);
(d) water would only be made available on a regular basis to the
area commanded by each tertiary when the Water Users'
Group has been formed, field channels constructed and
satisfactory distribution routines established (para 5.08);
(e) the Engineering Division of the NZIDB would prepare a compre-
hensive Operation and Maintenance Manual to be transmitted in
draft to IDA by June 1, 1979, and in final form by October 1,
1980 (para 5.09);
(f) views would be exchanged with IDA on a yearly basis on the
amount of funds required for the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of the NEC system (para 5.09);
(g) the O&M budget for the NEC system would be submitted by HMGN
to IDA not later than July 31 in each year (para 5.09);
(h) the project would be adequately staffed in accordance with a
staffing plan satisfactory to IDA (para 5.15);
(i) training under the project would be carried out in accordance
with a plan satisfactory to IDA (para 5.16);



- 49 -
(j) the Evaluation and Project Analysis Division of the Department
of Agriculture would prepare two comprehensive evaluation
studies of the project to be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1983,
and June 30, 1986 for review and comments (para 5.18);
(k) the NZIDB would prepare the project completion report within
six months after final disbursements of the Credit and that
report would be submitted to IDA for review and comment
(para 5.18);
(1) not later than one year after completion of the works in
each irrigation block, water charges would be collected to
(a) cover the O&M costs and (b) recover, in progressive
steps over a reasonable period of time, the investment
cost of the project to the fullest extent possible,
having due regard to the farmers' ability to pay, the
necessary incentives for their participation in the
project, and the need for public savings to finance other
development activities (para 7.08);
(m)  in consultation with IDA, water charges would be reviewed
and adjusted at regular intervals not exceeding three years
(para 7.08);
(n) irrigation distribution channels, transmission lines and
access tracks for the private community tubewell scheme
would be constructed free of cost to the farmers (para 7.10).
9.02      A condition of credit effectiveness would be that a firm of engi-
neering consultants satisfactory to IDA had been appointed on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3.15).
9.03      A condition of disbursement for the community tubewell component
would be that financial arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, have been made
between HMGN and ADBN (para 4.10).
9.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$14 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



- 50 -                                 TABLE 3.1
Page 1 ot 3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
List of Civil Works
Completed, or To be Completed
in process          under
under Stage I      Stage II
1. Stage I Area (16,000 ha)
(a) Nepal Eastern Canal improvements,
Km 0 to Km 26.5 (NEC-1);
Check structures and gates                              5
Excess flow escapes                                     2
Side spillways                                          3
Intake structures to Main Secondary Canals              8
Cross-drainage works                                    4
Drainage inlets                                         8
Foot bridges                                            3
Service   road (15-cm gravel thickness)                27 kmn
Left bank strengthening                                 5 km
Service   road, 10-cm additional gravel                 -                 27 km
No. 2 road, raise 60-cm                                 -                 27 km
(b) Command Area of NEC-1 (16,000 ha);
Main Secondary Canals                                  50 km               -
Branch Secondary Canals                                80 km               -
Tertiary canals                                       320 km               -
MSC operating roads (3.5 m, earth)                     50 km               -
BSC roads (3.5/1.5 m, earth)                           80 km               -
Structures                                          4,800              1,500
Tertiary outlets (division boxes)                   1,800                  -
Drains                                                310 km               -
Additional road drainage structures                     -                 60
Additional drain structures                             -                 90
Operating roads (raise 20 cm)                           -                120 km
Increase drain capacity (1 to 3 1/sec/ha)               -                200 km
Tilawe system structural repairs                        -                  3
2. Stage II Area (12,700 ha)
(a) Nepal Eastern Canal improvements,
Km 26.5 to Km 62.0 (NEC-2) and
Km 62.0 to Km 78.2 (NEC-3);
Check structures and gates                              -                 10
Escapes for excess flow                                 -                  3
Intake structures to Main Secondary Canals              -                  3
Canal improvements                                      -                  3 km
Cross-drainage works                                    3                  4
Drainage inlets                                         6                  3
Superpassage                                            1                  -
Left bank strengthening                                 -                 10 km



- 51 -                                  TABLE 3.1
Page 2 of 3
List of Civil Works
(Continued)
Completed, or To be Completed
in process          under
2.  Stage II Area (continued)                                 under Stage I      Stage II
Operating roads;
Right bank, stabilization and 25-cm gravel            -                 52 km
No. 2 road, raise earth 60 cm                         -                 46 km
Left bank, form earth road                            -                 10
Bridges                                                 -                  6
Protective flood bund                                   -                  8 km
(b) Command area of NEC-2 (12,700 ha);
Main Secondary Canals                                   -                 40 km
Branch Secondary Canals                                 -                 65 km
Tertiary Canals                                         -                257 km
MSC operating roads (3.5 m, earth)                      -                 40 km
BSC roads (3.5/1.5 m, earth)                            -                 65 km
Structures                                              -              6,400
Tertiary outlets (division boxes)                       -              1,400
Drains                                                  -                250 km
Grain stores                                            -                   6
(c) Farm Group Development (construction by farmers)
Field channels                                          -              1,900 km
Field drains                                            -              1,300 km
Road crossings of channels and drains                   -              1,300
Cross-drains                                            -                400
Additional division boxes                               -                140
Land levelling                                          -              2,500 ha
*
Structural materials provided by project.
3. Private, Community Tubewell Scheme
(a) Deep tubewell areas:
Tubewells, 150 m deep approx., 25 cm 0                                     5
Pumphouses and quarters                                                    5
Regulating ponds                                                           5
Main supply channels (project construction)             -                7.5 km
Power transmission line (11 kV)                                           10 km
(b) Shallow tubewell areas;
Tubewells, 30 m deep approx., 10 cm 0                                     20
Pumphouses                                                                20
Main and field channels (farmers' construction, project supervised)   12 km
Power transmission line                                                   10 km



- 52 -                             TABLE 3.1
rage 3 of 3
List of Civil Works
(Continued)
To be Completed
under
Stage II
4. Pilot Works
(a) Waterlogging Control Trials;
(i) Tubewells, 30 m deep approx., 10 cm 0                                  20
Pumphouses                                                             20
Transmission line                                                       5 km
(ii) Tubewells, 150 m deep approx., 25 cm 0                                  5
Pumphouses                                                              5
Regulating ponds                                                        5
Transmission line                                                       5 km
(b)  Stabilization Trials (using lime and/or cement);
Initial experimental road trials 1.5m tertiary canal road                300 m
Field trials; 3.5 m wide operating road                                  2.5 km
tertiary canal                                            250 m
protective flood  bund (in lieu of stone pitching)                         1 km
(c)  Tilawe Micro-hydroelectric Station                                         1
September, 1978



- 53 -
Table 3.2
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
List of Imported Equipment and Vehicle Requirements
Serial                                             No          Unit Cost             Total Cost
No           Item                             Required  cif Calcutta,US$    cif Calcutta,US$
Engineering Equipment & Vehicles
1.      Dragline excavator, 0.5 m 3             1             140,000              140,000
2.      Hydraulic excavator (Gradall)           1              60,000              60,000
3.      Road roller                             1              50,000              50,000
4.      Puenmatic-tired roller, powered         2              15,000               30,000
5.      Rotavator, self-propelled               2               5,000               10,000
6.      Water sprinkles truck                   1              15,000               15,000
7.      Mobile storage bins(cement/lime)                        5,000               5,000
8.      Mobile cement/lime batcher              1              15,000              15,000
9.      Compactors, self-propelled              2              15,000               30,000
10.      Low-loader equipt transporter           1              25,000               25,000
11.      Transporter tractor                     1              20,000               20,000
12.      Mobile crane                            1              50,000               50,000
13.      Vehicles, 4-wheel drive, long           3               8,300               25,000
14.      Unit construction (Bailey) bridge    1                 90,000               90,000
15.      Telephone system (NEC tail reach)    1                 10,000               10,000
16.      Drill rig                               1             800,000             800,000
17.      Steel well casting pipe,25 cm 0        Lot            200,000             200,000
18.      Slotted tubewell pipe, 25 cm           Lot             50,000              50,000
19.      Pumps (80 1/sec, 20 m approx.
head) and motors (40 kw)
a) Private community tubewell
scheme;                        5               9,000              45,000
b) Waterlogging control pilot
scheme                         5               9,000              45,000
20.      Pumps (10 1/sec, 5 m, max.
head) and motors (2.5 kw)
a) Private community tubewell
scheme;                       20               4,000              80,000
b) Waterlogging control pilot
scheme;                       20               4,000              80,000
21.      Transmission line and transformers  40                  7,500             300,000
22.      Flowmeters for tubewell pumps          58                 400              23,000
23.      Workshop equipment and tools           Lot             10,000              10,000
24.      Survey instruments                     Lot              5,000               5,000
25.      Quality control laboratory
equipment                           Lot             10,000               10,000
26.      Training equipment                     Lot              7,000               7,000
27.      Micro hydroelectric plant               1              50,000              50,000
28.      Spare parts for equipment (20%)                                           170,000
Sub-total, cif Calcutta                             2,450,000
cif Calcutta to Birganj, say 5%                            120,000
Sub-total estimated cost of engineering equipment and
vehicles, cif Birganj                                        US$ 2,570,000



- 54 -
Table 3.2
Page 2 of 2
Serial                                         No          Unit Cost           Total Cost
No            Item                        Required  cif Kathmandu,US$  cif Kathmandu,US$
Agricultural Extension Vehicles
and Equipment
29.     Vehicles, four-wheel drive,
short wheel base                    13            8,300              107,900
30.     Pick-up trucks                         2           11,500                23,000
31.     Minibus                                1           11,900                11,900
32.     Motorcycles                           10              800                 8,000
33.     Bicycles                              96              100                 9,600
34.     Electric generators                   30              670                20,300
35.     Audio-visual aid equipment            Lot          92,000                92,000
36.     Office equipment                      Lot          70,000                70,000
Sub-total, cif Kathmandu (rounded)                340,000
Sub-total,engineering equipment                 2,570,000
Total estimated cost of equipment and vehicles       2,910,000
September, 1978
1/ This represents the total equipment cost estimate for the six districts concerned.
An amount of $100,000 out of the $340,000 has already been included in Credit
No. 812 for the Sunsari Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project, conse-
quently only $0.2 M has been included in Table 4.1



- 55 -                               TABLE 3.3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Consultant Requirements
Overall cost         Total
Estimated    per man-month         Cost
Man-months      US$ equiv.       US$ equiv.
Project Engineering Consultants          75            8,500           637,500
Agricultural Extension and               15            6,500            97,500
Training Consultants
Air travel and freight                   -                -             55,000
Accommodation                                             -             15,000
Contingencies                                                           45,000
Total     850,000
September, 1978



-56-
TABLE LOs
NEPAL
SANAYAS   ZONE CRRIE6TION 6TA2E1100  PROJEUCT
tEti.tatdCo  Ongto  Roarsto as  Care1 Wate- Sasgd
P-i.eot Stag,. I and II (28.700 ha not)
JAN(         Sf            MAR          APR           MAY          JUN5          JU            AUG          SEP           OCT           13            DECC
PADDY  -  IDDLE_                                       _ _  _ _   _  _ _ _  _   _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _     _ _ _ _      _ _ _  _     _ _  _ _                                                _ _  _ _
SUGARCANE                                                        -TM 7ln -                                                                                                                      latn
OILIEEDS AND0 PULSES-                                                                    -
Crpcoficet  IC                                                                                                              .08          122         10.40
pgn evoprto,         ~1.60                                                                                                                       1512          17
Ut. op172                                                                                                                                        185            55
Doep paroolotIan(e. I..                                                                                               28            84            78            30
Scedhed cod 1and prpaaio,-                                                                                                           -             -             -
Crop wair-  roqirnuen, -178                                                                                                        256           263            65
Effecting rainfall,  op                                                                 ~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38  127  149  1SO
Crop irrigation reqoiresient. op                                                       ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~~~   ~      ~~~~~~~~140  129  1.1.4-
Fass delivery roqssire t (907. aff), op156                                                                                         143           1.27-
Ca..aI hend reorset(0   ovynsff), op222                                                                                            204           108L 
Cropped gre.  ha---- -----------------------------8.60 h---------------------------------
Voias  of .ater reqoi-od, INn3                                                                                        19.1          17.5          15.6          -
Paddy - Middle
Crop coefficient, Kc                                                                                                                 -              .82          1.36          1.45         1.10          0.30
pan avpration, op1520                                                                                                                                          157          1216          115            83
Ic,                                                                                                                                              129           1.66         183           126            25
Deep pernalotion  loss, o                                                                                                           28            78            65           82            28            30
Seedbrd and l1nd preparation, op50                                                                                                               100oo
Cra  -ater reqir-et                                                                                                                 76           307           251          265           154            55
Effoctoena-      fl, op20                                                                                                                       i113           130          123            50             0
Crop irrigatIon  eurpc.o                                                                                                            58           194           151          142           104            55
Pa=s deliveyr-      iren    0%ef,o                                                                                                  64           2.15          112          150           115            651
fCal. head rqoina-on  (70%  fEf). op92                                                                                                           308           150          252           128            87
Vologs  oS conn eqoird, ftc                                                                                                          9.2          30.9          16.1         22..6         12.9           8.7
Paddy - Late
Crop c              K.icat  Cc                                                                                                                                                               1.2          1.4           0.4
Pan.a.      eto,o                                                                                                                                                                         115            83            69
CEt, op130                                                                                                                                                                                              110            28
DeP per'o1oti"cIe.  op..                                                                                                                                                     40            03            20            30
Seedied an  ld 1    prpaato,  p                                                                                                                                              s                            -
Crop .ater reqoicego    p190                                                                                                                                                              221           144            50
Effecti-n raiialf1                                                                                                                                                           60            50             0             0,
Crop irrigatiine-q.ireeet,                                                                                                                                                  130           l'1           144            50
fo7 eiey  soran   90  eE)   p144                                                                                                                                                 190          160            65
Cacal hod reqoeemene(701r e%lff-),o                                                                                                                                   206           2971         228            93
o.p- f  ater neqo teed.  .320.6                                                                                                                                                        27.1          22.0           9.3
Crop c              Kfiin . c                                    0.60          0.40          0.70        10.80          0.088         0.97          LOS0        10.97          0. 86       10.40         80.60          0.62
Pa..anate,   p67                                                              74           164           93           227          160           152           17           126           15             03            69
EE.o                                                            40            30          115           134          200           155           152           133          105            46            50           43
Effective raitl.f.    op                                         0             0             0            0            60          127           1024          134          100            48             0            0
Crop irrigatioc r.qoileacc. o                                   40            30          115           154           140           28            48            29            0             0            50           43
rare deiley esoran    70   G).o                                 7            42          164           220          200            41            60            11            0             0            710          61
CacaI head diversion reqoinesoat (70. eff),  8p                  2            60          234           315          285            55            98            59            0             0           102            87
Croppe  araa, iha          ------                                                                                                        3,  0                                                                            0
701pm of water reqoired. INn3                   ~~~~          ~~2.0  2.1    0.0          10.8          9.8           2.0           3..4         24.0          00                          3.53.
CroP noefficiect, Kc                                              0.03         0.085         0.38                                                                                                         80.30        0.50
Pan evapratian, op67                                                          79           164                                               I                                                            3           69
Et  op                                                          56            67            62                                               I25                                                                      395
Effcine.a..      al,- op0                                                      0             0                                               I0                                                                        0
Crop irri gation enqai-eon, op                                  56            67            62                                                                                                           25           3
Fao  delivery reqoirent (70%   ff), op                          8             96            89                                                                                                           36           50
Cana  head diverloc. reqoiropet (70. off) , op                 114           137          126                                                I51                                                                      71
CCrdop3-----p------edarea-ha-----------------7-7,175                                                                                                  ------------------------    ------  --                              -
Vol1a  ef .eter eeqoired , ft                                     8.2          9.8           9.1                                             I3 7                                                                      5.2
Wheat - Lain 
Cro  cefiet0.50                                                                0.5           0.65         0.45                               I                                                                           .30
pan evaporating, op                            ~~~           ~~~        ~ ~~~~67  79  164  193                                                                                                        69
El  o                                                           34            67          107            87                                 I21
Effectiverinal,o                                                 0             0             0            0                                                                                                            0
pages deiveryti roq.iropn     -0 ef)3p49                                     96            153          127                                                                                                           30
Cra  d.irriyto  requira             ffent,4                                   967          1073          874                                J310
Cana  head div-reioee.qoineast (70X eff), op                    70           137          219           177                                                                                                           43
Ctarpp d    area,   h.a-                                           - - - -  - -  - - - -  - - - - -  -- - -  - - -    - - -  - -6-- , C                - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -- - -  - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  -
Vcl1n of water ..q.ired. to3                                     4.6           9.0          14.4         11.7                                                                                                          2.8
Crop coafficiect                                                 0.54          0.54          0.2                                                                                                          0.17         0.37
Panea.a.       o,o                                              67            79           164                                                                                                           83           09
Et.o                                                            36            43           41                                                                                                            14           26
Effective rainfal. op                                            0             0             0                                                                                                            5            0
Crop irrigotiocr.qaineaet, op                                   36            43           41                                                                                                            14           26
Parr delivery r-qoir-len  ~70% ef), op51                                      61           59                                                                                                           20            37
Canal head di-ereiocr-qoineopt (70. off), op                    73            87            894                                                                                                         29             5
CC  p d    . ,hnpp- - --- - -- - --d- --- --area,-                                                                  - - - --- - -- - ha-6,0000--- - -- - -                  - - - -- - -- - - --            -- - ---       -
Polo_  cf eater required. ba3                                    4.4           5.2          5.0          22.5         28.9                                                                               5.7           3.2
Total Volan  fS eatr reqotlpd, MO3/eo                           20.0          26.1         36.5          22.5         28.9          28.7          49.9         18.1          43.2        40.0           40.4          23.5
Caca  Vaply neq.tied, so /eee                                    7.5          10.8         13.6           8.7         10.8          11.1          18.6          6.8          16.7        14.9           15.6           8.8
Car1 eapaity at head of NEC            -----------------------                                                         ------ - - -     24.1 n3/.----    -----    -----
1/Sogncan  and vegetable..
S.le-nee.. 1978



- 57 -
TABLE 4.1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost
(NRs 12 =US$1)
% of      % Foreign
Project Item                          Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Total    Exchange
----- NRs Million ----    ---- US$ Million ----
I/
1. Civil Works and Buildings-
(a) Nepal Eastern Canal improvements (12.5%)
(i) Stage II area                                   7.20    7.80    15.00       0.60   0.65       1.25
(ii) Additional works, Stage I area                  0.84    0.96       1.80     0.07   0.08       0.15
Sub-total                                           8.04    8.76    16.80        0.67   0.73      1.40       8          50
(b) Surface irrigation and drainage (15%)
(i) Stage II area                                  22.80   15.60    38.40       1.90   1.30       3.20
(ii) Additional works, Stage I area                  7.80    5.40    13.20       0.65   0.45       1.10
(iii) On-farm development                             4.20    0.60       4.80     0.35   0.05       0.40
(iv) Waterlogging control trials & monitoring    2.40    2.40           4.80     0.20   0.20       0.40
Sub-total                                          37.20   24.00    61.20       3.10   2.00       5.10      30          38
(c) Community groundwater development (15%)             1.20    2.40       3.60      0.10   0.20      0.30       2          67
(d) Buildings (10%)
(i) Canal operation buildings                       2.40    0.60      3.00      0.20   0.05       0.25
(ii) Input Stores                                    0.48    0.12      0.60      0.04   0.01       0.05
(iii) Agricultural Extension buildings                3.60    1.20      4.80      0.30   0.10       0.40
Sub-total, buildings                                6.48    1.92      8.40      0.54   0.16       0.70       4          29
Sub-total, civil works and buildings               52.92   37.08    90.00       4.41   3.09       7.50                  41
2. Equipment
(a) Construction and O&M equipment & spare parts         -      24.60    24.60        -     2.05      2.05
(b) Pumps, motors, tubewell casing                       -       6.00      6.00       -     0.50      0.50
(c) Survey and Laboratory equipment                      -       0.60      0.60       -     0.05      0.05
(d) Agricultural vehicles and eauitment                  -       2.40      2.40       -     0.20      0.20
Sub-total                                            -      33.60    33.60       -      2.80      2.80      16         100
3. Technical Services
(a) Consultants                                         1.80    8.40    10.20        0.15   0.70      0.85
(b) Air photo and mapping2/                             0.36    1.44       1.80     0.03   0.12       0.15
(c) Training                                            0.12    1.08       1.20      0.01   0.09      0.10
Sub-total                                           2.28   10.92    13.20       0.19   0.91       1.10       6          82
4. Project Establishment
(a) Engineering and Administration3/                    8.40    2.40    10.80       0.70   0.20       0.90
(b) Agricultural operating cost                         2.40    1.20       3.60      0.20   0.10      0.30
Sub-total                                          10.80    3.60    14.40       0.90   0.30       1.20       7          25
5. Contingencies
(a) Physical contingencies                              7.20    7.20    14.40       0.60   0.60       1.20       7          50
Sub-total, items 1 through 5(a)                    73.20   92.40   165.60       6.10   7.70    13.80                    56
(b) Price contingencies                                13.20   18.00    31.20       1.10   1.50       2.60      15          58
Project Cost                                       86.40  110.40   196.80       7.20   9.20    16.40                    56
6.  Land Acquisition                                         6.00     -        6.00      0.50    -         0.50       4           -
7.  Taxes and Duties                                        1.20      -        1.20      0.10    -         0.10      1            -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     93.60  110.40   204.00        7.80   9.20    17.00    100            52
1/ Physical contingency percentages provided for work  items are shown in parentheses, and accumulated in item 5(a).
2/ $150,000 for preparatory mapping for future project(s).
3/ Including operation and maintenance during project construction period FY79 through FY8
September, 1978



58 -                             TABLE 4.2
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
on Completion of Project
Cost per year
Surface Irrigation (Stages I and II)             NRs      US$ '000
1. Engineering Operations:
(a) Salaries                                      816        68
(b) Equipment operation & maintenance
and spare parts                             624        52
(c) Force account labor for maintenance
and repairs                                 480        40
(d) Materials                                     260        30
2. Administration:
(a) Salaries                                       96         8
(b) Building services                              24         2
(c) Contingencies                                 240        20
2,640      220
Surface irrigated area                   = 28,700 ha net
Cropped surface irrigated area/yr        = 52,500 ha at full development
O&M cost per net irrigated ha/yr         = US$7.70
= NRs 90
O&M cost per irrigated cropped ha/yr  = US$4.20
= NRa 50
Private Community Tubewell Scheme
Deep Tubewell   Shallow Tubewell
NRs    US$         NRs   US$
Salaries                                 4,200    350       1,800  150
Power charges                           20,000  1,667       1,250  104
Repair and maintenance
- Pump, motor, switchgear                 830      70          80    7
- Structures and canals                 5,140    428          300   25
Miscellaneous                            5,940    495          330   28
36,110  3,010       3,760  313
Tubewell net command area                120 ha              10 ha
Tubewell cropped area                    233 ha               19 ha
(194% intensity)
O&M cost per tubewell irrigated
net ha/year                          NRs 300              NRs 376
O&M cost per tubewell irrigated
cropped ha/year                      NRs 155              NRs 198
(194% inteftsity)
September. 1978



Table 4.3
- 59 -
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Estimated Incremental Cost of Agricultural Extension and Training for
Parsa, Bara, Rautahat, Sunsari, Morang, and Rupandehi Districts
I.  CIVIL WORKS                            Quantity   Unit Price, cif         Total
(NRs)         (NRs'O0O)
Housing for JTAs-/                     90          26,800               2,412
Housing for JTs b/                     30          39,000               1,170
Sub-district Training Center cl        30         106,000               3,180
District Extension Office               4          72,000                 288
Regional Training Center,               1         725,000                 725
Sunsari District
Sub-total                                           7,775
II. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT d/
Four-wheel drive (Jeep)                13          99,600             1,295
Pick-up trucks                          2         137,500               274
Minibus                                 1         143,000               143
Motorcycles                            10            9,600               96
Bicycles                               96           1.200               115
Electric Generators (for               30           8,000               240
District Sub-centers)
Audo-visual Aid equipment              Lot            -               1,100
Training Center and Office             Lot            -                 850
equipment
Sub-total                                          4,113
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consultants e/                         -              -               1,203
Overseas Training                      -              -               1,084
Local Training                         -              -                 800
Sub-total                                                 3,087
IV.  INCREMENTAL STAFF AND OPERATING COSTS (4-years)
Staff Salaries                         -              -               7,000
O&M Buildings and Equipment            -              -                 880
O&M Vehicles                           -              -               2,150
In-service Training for JTs,
JTAs and PLAs                        -              -               2,000
Headquarters and District
Administration                       -              -               1,300
Sub-total                                                13,330
TOTAL COST ESTIMATE (NRs'OO0)                              28,305
(in US$ million equivalent)           2 30 (rounded)
a/  Houses for JTAs:  Low brick house, two rooms and a kitchen plus a small store.
Total built floor area: 55 m2. Unit price 485 Rs/m2
Total cost per house =          Rs 26,680
b/  Houses for JTs:   Specifications as per a/ above, builded area 65 m , electrical
and water installations. Unit price 600 Rs/m2
Total Cost per house =          Rs 39,000
c/  District            Low cost brick house, 1 meeting hall for 25-30 people -
training       :   70 m2, a office for JT - 12 m2, a store - 10 m2, a kitchenette +
Sub-centers        toilet - 8 m2.  Electricity and water installations.
Unit Cost - 900 Es/r2
Cost of Structure =             Rs 94,500
Water tank, etc =               Rs 12,000
106,9000
d/                                  Cars
1.  Required                  (Jeep Type)   Pick-ups   Minibus   Motorcycles   Bicycles
1.1 Districts                      20            3          -           46            90
1.2 Headquarter                     2            -          -            1             -
1.3 Training Cemters               4 4                      1            2             -
1.4 Total                         28             3          1           49            90
2.  Present Available              6             1          -            5             28
3.  Increment                     22             2          1           44             62
e/  Consultants                       Quantity          Unit Cost (NRs)           Total
(NRs '000)
Training and extension         15 man-months          73,200                1,098
specialists
Travel (Air)                    8 fjihts             13,200                 105
Total       1,203
Septembr, 1978



60 -                                                Table 4.4
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Estimated Annual Expenditure
Estimated Annual Expenditure, US$M Equivalent
Estimated   Year (1)   Year (2)   Year (3)   Year (4)
Project Item                                     Cost,US$M   1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
1.  Civil Works and Buildings
(a) Nepal Eastern Canal                                                    1.4          0.2          0.5         0.6         0.1
(b) Surface irrigation and drainage                                        5.1          0.9          1.7         1.7         0.8
(c) Community groundwater development                                      0.3           -           0.1         0.2          -
(d) Buildings                                                              0.7          0.2          0.4         0.1          -
Sub-total                                                              7.5          1.3         2.7          2.6         0.9
2.  Technical Services
(a) Consultants                                                            0.8          0.3          0.2         0.2         0.1
(b) Air photography and mapping                                            0.2            -           -          0.2          -
(c) Training                                                               0.1            -          0.1          -           -
Sub-total                                                              1.1          0.3         0.3          0.4         0.1
3.  Project Establishment
(a) Engineering and Administration                                         0.9          0.2          0.2         0.2         0.3
(b) Agricultural operating cost                                            0.3          0.1          0.2          -           -
Sub-total                                                              1.2          0.3         0.4          0.2         0.3
4.  Contingencies, (i)
(a) Physical contingencies                                                 1.2           0.3         0.3         0.4         0.2
Sub-total (A), works and services, Items 1 thru 4                     11.4          2.2          3.7         3.6         1.5
5.  Equipment
(a) Engineering vehicles, equipment and spares                             2.6           0.8         0.8         0.6         0.4
(b) Agricultural vehicles and equipment                                    0.2           0.1         0.1          -           -
Sub-total (B), equipment                                               2.8          0.9         0.9          0.6         0.4
Sub-total (C), project cost excluding price contingencies             14.2          3.1          4.6         4.2         1.9
6. Contingencies, (ii)
(b) Price contingencies
(i) Escalation factors, works and services                                         (0.08)      (0.161)      (0.242)     (0.329)
Escalation on Sub-total (A), works and services                    2.2          0.2         0.6         0.9         0.5
(ii) Escalation factors, equipment                                                  (0.07)      (0.139)    (0.208)       (0.280)
Escalation on Sub-total (B), equipment                             0.4          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
(iii) Sub-total (D), price contingencies (i) and (ii)                    2.6          0.3         0.7          1.0         0.6
Project Cost, Sub-total (C) and (D)                               16.4          3.4         5.3         5.2         2.5
7.  Land Acquisition                                                            0.4          0.1         0.2         0.1          -
8.  Duties and Taxes                                                            0.2          0.1         0.1          -           -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                17.0          3.6         5.6         5.3         2.5
Sentember. 1978



- 61-                            Table 4.5
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Credit Allocation and Disbursement
A. Proposed Credit Allocation
% of
Amount of the       Expenditures
Category                         Credit              Financed
---US$ million--
(1)    Civil Works                                            90
(a)  Community Tubewell Scheme    0.3
(b)  Other Civil Works              8.7
(2)    Equipment,Vehicles
Spare parts & Materials
(a)  Community Tubewell Scheme    0.6
(i)  directly imported                            100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii)  locally manufactured                         100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(iii)  locally procured                              75%
(b)  Other                          2.5
(i)  directly imported                          100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii)  locally manufactured                       100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(iii)  locally procured                             75%
(3)    Consultants and technical
services and training             1.2               100%
(4)    Agricultural extension and
training staff                   0.4                 55%
(5)    Unallocated                         0.3
TOTAL            14.0



- 62-                               Table 4.5
Page 2 of 2
B. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year and                                    Disbursements
Semester                                       US$ M  Million Equivalent
Semester          Cummulative
FY79
Ist                                             0.5                 0.5
2nd                                             1.0                 1.5
FY80
Ist                                             1.6                 3.1
2nd                                             2.1                 5.2
FY81
Ist                                             2.1                 7.3
2nd                                             2.1                 9.4
FY82
Ist                                             2.2                11.6
2nd                                             1.2                12.8
1983
Ist                                             1.2                14.0
September, 1978



-      NEPAL
NAPAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production
---------- Present -Future Without Pro-ect-------    -----------------------Future With Project---------------------------
-------SurfaCe---------                   -----Groundwater -------
%      Area    Yield    Production       %      Area    Yield    Production        %      Area    Yield    Prduction        7       Area    Yield    Production
Area   '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton    Area   '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton    Area   '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 ton    Area   '000 ha   ton/ha    '000 tOn
WET SEASON
Early Paddy (HYV)                    20     2.*        2.2         5.9        20       2.7      2.3         6.2         30      3.8       3.2         12.2       40      0.24       3.2      0,7F
Middle Paddy (Local)                 30     4.1        1.3         5.3         30      4.1       1.4        5.7         35       4.4      2.5         11.0        30     0.28       2.5      0.70
Late Paddy (HYV)                     40     j.4        2.2        11.9        40       5.4      2.3        12.4         35      4.4       1.2         14.1        36     0.28       3.2      0,90
Vegetables                            2     0.3        5.7         1.7         2       0.3      8.0         2.4          2      0C       15.0          4.5         2     0.02     15.0       0,30
DRY SEASON
Wheat I  (1)                         25     3.4        1.4         3.7        25       3.4       1.6        5.4         25       3.2      2.5          9.0        25    0tZ20       2.8      0.56
Wheat II (2)                         15     2.0        1.3         2.6        15       2,0       1.4        2.8         23       2.9      2.2          7,3        20     0.16       2.5      0.40
Pulses                               10     1.4        0.6        0.8         10       1.4      o.6         0.8         15      1.9       0.8          1.5        10     0.08       0.9      0.07
Oilseeds                              6     0.8        0.3         0.2         6       0.8       o.4         0.3         6       0.8      0.7          o.6         5     0.04       0.8      0.03
Vegetables                            2     0.3        5.7         1.7         2       0.3      8.0         2.4          2      0.3      15.0          4.5        2      0.02     15.0       0.30
Maize                                 -      -          -           -          -        -         -          -           -        -        -            -         15     0.12       2.5      0.30
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane                            10     1.4       22.0       30.8         10       1.4     30.0        42.0         10      1.3      40.0         52.0               0.12     40.0        4.80
Total cropped area ('000 ha)                          21.6                                    21.6                                      23.3                                    1.55
Net cultivated area('OO0 ha)                          13.5                                    13.5                                      12.7                                     1.08                                 i;
Total cropping intensity (7)                         160.0                                   160.0                                     183.0                                  194.00
Wet season intensity (%)                             107.0                                   107.0                                     112.0                                   117.00
Dry season intensity (%)                              73.0                                    73.0                                      80.0                                   87.00                                  .
(1) Wheat following middle paddy.
(2) Wheat following late paddy.
September, 1978



NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements
------LOCAL PADDY --------       --------HYV PADDY ---------       ----------WHEAT-----------         -    -SUGAR CANE--------
P         FWO         FW           P        EWO         FW           P         FWO        FW            P         EWO        FW
YIELD T/HA                  --1.3--    --1.4--   --2.5 -    --2.2--  -.2.3--    --3.2--    -- 1.3 -   -- 1.5 -   - 2.6 -    --22.0--  --30.0--  --40.0--
Annual Family and Hired Labor
+ Animal Days (days/ha).          M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D    M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D   M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D    M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D
Land Preparation                  41   80   43   84   44   85        41   80   43   80   43   80    27   50   30   55   33   60            44   36   46   38   49   40
Nursery, Planting                 33         33         33            33         33         33           9   12    9   12   10   12        22    2   24    2   27    2
Crop Management                   21         19         15            24        20         22           10         12         20           46         46         56
Harvesting, Threshing             21   12   23   13   30   19         23   13   25   14   31   17    32    7   40    9   48   11           85   50  105   60  145   80
Sub-total                  116   92  118   97  122  100    121   93  121   94  129   97    78   69   91   76  111   83    197   88  221  100  277  122                      a'
Rs/ha                    580  460  590  485  610  500    605  465  605  470  645  485   390  345  455  380  555  415    985  440 1105  500 1385  610
Fertilizer & Pesticides
N  Kg/ha                             14         18         35           37         49        100          33         61        110          140        190        250
Rs/ha                            74         95        186           196       260        530          175        323        583          742       1007       1!25
P  Kg/ha                              -          9         12            9         12         40          12         24         40           60         60         70
Rs/ha                                       41         54            41         54        180          54        108        180          270        270        315
K  Kg/ha                              -          4          6            -          4         30          12         12         24           60         60        100
'Rs/ha                                      10         16                       10         78          31         31         62          156        156        260
Plant Protection (Rs/ha)               30         40         50           60         80        150           -          -        100          180        200        300
Other InPutsX
Seed Kg/ha                          55         55          55           50         50         50          90        100        100         4000       4500       5000
Rs/ha    '                    110        110        110           100        100       1oo          270        300        300         1040       1170       1300
Miscellaneous*                      100        108        124          408        535       1100         103        135        167          298        354        448           e
* 87 (includes interest on Credit Requirements)
September, 1978



NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements
----    VEGETABLES --------       -------OILSEEDS ---------      -----------PULSES ---------      ------      MAIZE----
P       FWO         FW            P      FWO         FW              P       FWO         FU           P       FWO        FW
YIELD T/MA              --5.7--   --8.0--   --15.0--       --.3--   --.4--      --.7--        --.6--    --.6--    --.8--          -          _     --2.5--
Annual Family and Hired Labor
+ Animal Days (days/ha)            M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D    M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D M/D  A/D    M/D  A/D  M!D  A/D M/D  A/D    M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D  M/D  A/D
Land Preparation                   25   30   25   30   25   30       20   36   20   36   22   40                             5    9                           25   50
Nursery, Planting                 22    7   22    7   22    7         4    4    4    4    4    4        1         1          1    1          -          -      6    3
Crop Management                   51   10   51   10   57   10        12        12         22                                 8                                26
Harvesting, Threshing              39    4   45    5   68    8       20    4   23    5   29    6       26    _   26    _   29                                 33
Sub-total                    137   51  143   52  172   55       56   44   59   45   77   50       27    -   27    -   43   10                             90   53
Rs/ha                        685  255  715  260  860  275    280  220  295  225  385  250    135            135        215   50                          450  265
Fertilizer & Pesticides
N  Kg/ha                             50        56         100          -          -         42            -           _       10                                66
Rs/ha                           265        297         530                              223                                53             -          -      349
P  Kg/ha                             15        17          30          -          -         30            -           -       10                                20
Rs/ha                             68        77         135                              135                                45                                90
K  Kg/ha                             30        36          90          -          -         18            -           -        -                                18
Rs/ha                             78        94         234                               47                                 0                                47
Plant Protection Rs/ha                100        125        300          -          -         50            -           -       50            -           -       50
other Inputs
Seed  Kg/ha                        1100      1100        1200         7.5       7.5        8.0            50         50       50                                25
Rs/ha                       3300       3300        3600          30        30         32           125       125       125            -           -       63
Miscellaneous *                     370       392         478          42         44        93            21         21       44                                lOa           '01
Mla
*8%7 (includes interest on Vredit Requirements)
September, 1978



NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Farm Budget Analysis
Unit                Present                  Future Without Proiect                           Future With Project
--- Surface Area---             --- Groundwter Area--- -
1.  Farm Size                      ha          0.67        2.0         5.0    0.67       2.0        5.0       0.67      A2.0       - 5.0       0.67       2.0        5.0
2.  Cropped Area                   ha          1.10        3.24        8.0    1.10       3.24       8.0       1.27       3.04       8.65       1.33       3.90       9.25
3.  Cropping Intensity             z             167        165        162      167       165       162        190        182        175         198       195        185
4.  Gross Value of Production    NRs          2,900       8,600    21,400   3,400    10,000   25,200         5,800    16,700    40,900        6,500    18,700    44,500
5. Farm Production Cost
Hired Labor                NRs            60       440      1,550       65        470    1,650         120        670      2,200        120        740      2,300
Animal                     NRs          430      1,300      3,180      450      1,470    3,390         530      1,560      3,750        550      1,690      3.900
Other Inputs               NRs          580      2,200      5,500      855      2         6,970      1,620      4,340    11,620       1700       4,790 ll.OOO
Sub-total             NRs        1,070      3,940    10,230   1,370       4,660   12,010       2,270      6,570    17,570       2,370       7,220    17.200
6.  Irrigation Cost 11             NRs           -                    -                                                                                                                   a,
76.  Net Value of Production                                                                                   130        300        860         480     1,440      3,600
(4)-(5) -(6)    2/           NRs        1,830      4,660    11,170   2,030        5,340   13,190       3,400      9,830    22,470       3,650    10,040    23,700
8.  Non-Farm Incomes                NRs          600        600        800      600        600       800        600        600        800        600        600        BO0
9.  Land Taxes 3/                   NRs           50        150        370       50        150       370         50        150        370         50        150        370
10. Net Family Incomes
(T)+(8)-(9)                  NRs        2,380      5,110    11,600   2,580        5,790   13,620       3,950     10,280    22,900        4,200    10,490    24,130
1/  This cost is estimated at NRs 100 per ha per crop, representing a full recovery of O&M and about 10% of capital cost
in surface area (amortized over 50 years at 10% rate of interest).  In groundwater area, the charge covers
O&M cost and repayment of loans (at 11% over a period of 20 years for deep tubewells and 7 years for shallow tubewells )                                                      a
2/  These estimates are based on a survey carried out by the ADBN in the Terai.  Non-farm incomes were estimated                                                                  X
at NRs 370, NRs 500, and NRs 1,020 for small (less than 2.71 ha), medium (2.71 - 5.42 ha) and large (above 5.42 ha)
farmers, respectively in 1969-70 prices and subsequently inflated to 1977 price level.  For farm budget analysis,                                                             H
NRs 600 and NRs 800 are assumed for the respective non-farm incomes of 0.67 and 2.0 ha, and 5.0 ha farm households.
Furthermore, due to the lack of data on consumption patterns and on the supply of migrant labor, it is assumed
that non-farm incomes would remain unchanged in the future.
3/  Land taxes vary in accordance with land grade.  In the project area, land taxes amount to NRs 75 per ha.  Since
in other parts of Nepal irrigation has not affected the land taxes, this rate is assumed to remain constant.
September, 1978



NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Estimate of Project Rent (at full development)
------------.67 ha Farm------------    -------2.0 ha Farm ------------    ----------5.0 ha Farm ------------
W     W(Surface)   W(Groundwater)    W          W(Surface)   W(Groundwater)    W         W(Surface)   W(Groundwater)
1.  Expected Gross Production Value              3,400     5,800           6,500         10,000    16,700            18,700        25,200     40,900          44,500
1/
2.  Certainty Equivalent of (1)                  2,040      4,640          5,200          7,000    14,200            15,900        20,160      36,810         40,050
3.  Production Costs                             1,370      2,270          2,370          4,660       7,630           7,220        12,010      17,570         17,200
4.  Family Labor 2/                                480        660            680          1,110      1,580            1,720         2,800       3,360          3,520
5.  Net Returns (?)-(3)-(4)                        190      1,710          2,150          1,230       6,050           6,960         5,350      15,880-        19,330             0
6.  Management Fee 3/                               20        170            220             120       600              700           540        1,590         1,930
7.  Implicit Land Rent 5-6                         170      1,540          1,930          1,110       5,450           6,260         4,810       14,290        17,370
8.  Project Rent                                            1,370          1,780                      4,340           5,150                       9,480       12,560
9.  Project Rent per ha (rounded)                           2,000          2,660                      2,170           2,580                        1,900       2,510
W = Future Without Project
W = Future With Project
1/   Some studies of farmers' behavior show that a simple approach can be adopted to ta!.e into account the farmers'
risk aversion by estimating a certainty equivalent value (CE) of the expected value (EV).  The formula used is:
CE = EV - n x s
Where s = the standard deviation
n   a factor that expenses the farmers' risk aversion
The studies indicate that the farmers' choice of cropping patterns and production techniques can be predicated for                                                           aX
values of "n" in the interval 1 to 3 and that "n" decrease when the farm size increases.  For this analysis, it is
assumed that n = 2 for .67 ha farm, n = 1.5 for 2.0 ha, and n = 1 for 5.0 ha.  The variation of the gross returns                                                             m
are assumed to be within 20% of the average values under rainfed condition.  With irrigation, yields would be more
stable and thus the gross returns are assumed to vary within 10% of the average values.
2/    Valued at market wage rates
3/    Tne reward for special skills that farm management requires and is assumed equal to 10% of tne net returns.
June 1978



-68 -                                  Table 8.1
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Economic Incremental Benefits
(At full development)
Crop                       Price           --Production--            Value
(NRs/ton)           ('000 tons)        (NRs million)
FWO       FW        FWO        FW
Paddy                     2,200             24.3      39.7      53.5       87.3
Wheat                      2,200             8.2      17.3      18.0       38.1
Maize                      1,800              0         0.3       0         0.5
Pulses                    3,500              0.8        1.6      2.8        5.6
Oilseeds                  3,900              0.3       0.6       1.2        2.3
Sugarcane                    360           42.0       56.8      15.1       20.4
Vegetables                 1,800             4.8        9.1      8.6       16.4
Gross Benefits                                                99.2      170.6
Input
Cash Inputs                                                     23.2       32.8
Animal                                                           8.6        9.7
Labor                                                            7.3        8.8
39.1      51.3
Net Value of Production                                         60.1      119.3
Losses in Handling                                               3.6 -      6.0 -
54.5     113.3
Incremental Net Benefits                                             58.8
FWO: Future Without Project, FW: Future With Project
1/  Assuming about 62 in future without project and 5% in future with project
since additional grain storage would be built under the project.
September, 1978



- 69 -                               Table 8.2
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
I. Surface Irrigation(12,720 ha) and Groundwater (800 ha)
Year         Investment Cost    O&M          Net Incremental Benefits
----------------------NRs million----------------------
1                32.2             0            32.2        0
2                46.1            1.0           47.1        0
3                53.5            1.2           48.8        5.9
4                20.0            1.4            6.7       14.7
5                 0              1.4           25.1       26.5
6                 0              2.7           38.5       41.2
7                 0              2.7           47.3       50.0
8                 0              2.7           53.2       55.9
9                 0              2.7           54.9       57.6
10-30              0              2.7           56.1       58.8
Economic Rate of Return = 22%
II. A.Deep Tubewell (120 ha)
Year         Investment Cost    O&M          Net Incremental Benefits
________-N-------NRs'000---------------------------
1                1092.8 ./       0                   0
2                   0           32.4              145.8
3                   0           32.4              291.8
4                   0           32.4               437.6
5                   0           32.4              583.5
6                   0           51.6 1            583.5
7-15                0           32 4              583.5
16                   0           97:2 -            583.5
17-30                0           32.4              583.5
Economic Rate of Return = 33%
III. A Shallow Tubewell (10 ha)
Year         Investment Cost   O&M           Net Incremental Benefits
---------NRs'000------------------------
1                 128.8         0                      -
2                   0          3.4                  12.2
3                   0          3.4                  24.3
4                   0          3.4                   36.5
5-10                0          3.4                  48.6
Economic Rate of Return = 21%
1/ Replacement of motor and pumping equipment
September, 1978



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE 11 PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year          1978                 1979                   1980                     1981              1982
Financial Year                  FY79                    FY80|                  FY81                    FY82
Project Year                     (1)                     (2)                     (3)                     (4)
Quarter            IV     I    II  Ill   IV       I    II   lll   IV    I    II   ll   IV    I    II   ll   IV
Monsoon               \'N,N'                 \',\'\         ___          \                    N
Buildings                                              N\,'.       \=N\ 'N                            \      N                 ' ..
NEC Improvement; Phase 1, (km 0 - km 26.5)                                    \'N  \             _     N\'N   N             .       '\
Phase 2, (km 26.5-km 62)             \'N                   Y      'N               YYY  N _ \\\                  'N
'NYN  N           \'~~N\ \,               \,\, N.'""   '
Phase 3, (km 62-km  78.2)          \\\  '                  'NY     N. *_   _         N   "\                  'N 'N
Tilawe barrage restoration                             \ \                      \N                    \                        '   'N
'N,'                     \    N''' N                                   'N,N    '
Surface Water;     Block VI I                              N .... \                                   '      N              ' '   'N
B:ocle~ ~~~~~                                 'NX' 4\4     \\           \'N   N               ' 'NY  'N' t       A
Drainge Iproveents incldig  oads\\'N                            'N'   'N\  \N'\N\                             '''\\'\
Block ViII                   **   \\N N\                                     N.      \                         \ 'N
\      N ock V I\\\ N,                                               ' _,  \  \ N
Block IX                             \ \\                               \ '             '                 '\\   '
Community   Ibwl  ckX..\                 N \N   'N  l                              \'   N                  'N . \
Elo  MchX                         '\\\  N                 \\'  'N                 '\\   "               . \\  '
Block XN                                                          ',\N                                     'N \'
Tubewel l s              ~\Y'   N                 'NY   'N \Y'N\\  .      .\\  N                  'N  'N  \\\    
Block XII                         '''                      NNN'                     ''                     N    N 
Drainage Improvements, includig Roads                   Y    N                '        \                                       'NY  'N'
Block I-VI                        'YN~                      'Y'                     Y                      N    N
Block VIl-XIf                      N'                      NNN                       N                     N    N
'N,' N,YY  'N,YN'N    N
Grain Stores, Phase 2                                 YY'N                                                                                    18N'Y
September,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 197
Farm Group Development                                YYN''''N'YN'N, N
Community Tubewells'Y' N'NNNNNNNNN                                                                                            'Y'N
YYYN                  ''YY'Y'                                         N    N
Civil WVorks'Y'                                            Y''YNYNN*'Y'N
Drilling'NNNNYYN'N'N'''
El. & Mech.'Y''NYN'YVNNNN
Piot/Experimental Works                               '''                       ''   Nf'''                                     NNNN
Tubewells                         '''                      N      N'''                                       NNN
Hydel                            \NNNN'Y  N                                         ''  N,'''
'N'NY  N   'NY  'NY                      ~       ~~N, .,  Y,'N
Air photo and Mapping                                 ''YN'Y'YY'                                                              N'
Feasibility Studies                ~'''                                       N N'NY                   ''
September,              ____ ___1978-                                                                                               VVor-ld~Y'     Baik-185



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Agriculture Extension and Training
---- Additional Staff Appointment Schedule and Anticipated Replacements ----                  ----- Vehicles -------    ------------ Buildings -----------------
Secr.
Typists            Jeeps                        Housing   Housing   Districts
Tech.      Tech.     Clerks              Mini- Motor-                   for        for        Sub-       Training
PLA   JTA   JT    AD   ATO   SMS   SATO   SAG Staff            Staff      Drivers   Total   Bus   cycles   Bicycles    JTAs             JTs       Centers      Center
(Gazetted) (Non-
Gazetted)
1.  FIRST YEAR
Bara and Parsa Districts               -    (-3)  (-1)   -    -        2      -     -       -          -    )         )                                             32        10)
)      /       114                                                  )         10
Rupandehi District                    100      9   (-5)   -    1       2      -      -      -          -    )         )                                             22         5)
Training Center                        -      -     -      -    -      -      1      -      4          3          8          ls                                                                       b/
Replacements                          (38)  (33)
Subtotal                        100      3   (-6)   -    1       4      1       1     4          3         15         129        8       5          53         54        15          10          c/
2.  SECOND YEAR
Sunsari and Morang Districts          116      5   (-3)         1      3     -                         -    )       /)                                              19        12)                     1
)   13-')    246                                                    )         15
Rautahat District                     101    11   (-2)   -    -        -      -      -      -          -    )         )                                             17         3)                     c/
Training Centers                       -      -     -      -    -      -      -      -      4          3          1           8
Bara & Parsa & Rupandehi
District Replacements               (-)   (33)
Subtotal                        217    16   (-5)           1     3      -       -     4          3         14         254         8      5         43          36        15          15          1
3. TRIRD AND FOURTH YEAR
Replacements                          (75)
Six Districts                                                                                                                                                                              5
Subtotal                                                    -        -                                      -          -        -      -            -          -          -           -
4.  TOTAL                                 317    22  (-II)   1    2        7      1      1      8          6         29         383        16    10          96          90        30          30          1
a/  Including drivers
b/  The project will use the existing facilities of Janakpur Training Center
c/  The project will use the Training Center under construction at Bhairawa
PLA =  Panchayat Level Assistant                          ATO  = Agricultural Training Officer
JTA =  Junior Technician Assistant                       SMS  = Subject Matter Specialist
JT  =  Junior Technician                                  SATO = Senior Agricultural Training Officer
Ao  =  Agricultural Officer                               SAO  = Senior Agricultural Officer
September, 1978



NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE It PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Organization Chart
(Training and Research omitted, see Fig. 5.3)
Ground.ater                                                         Narayani Zonerang
Devetopment                                                     Irrigation Devetopmem               arimulture               Irrigation Development
Board                                                                Board
_~~                                                            ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - _                             
Regional Director,                                                   Regional Director.                                             Regional Director.
Agriculture, West                                                   Agriculture, Central                                          Agricultural, Eastern
Region                                                               Region                                                         Region
Project-in-charge                                 Ditrc
Bhairawa-Lumbini                   ~~~~~~~Coordination        Genera                          IPoect Mnager 
Groundwater Project                               C t CC                   M                   r - -                   DCC - -              D            _
DCC- ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    (DC 
DCC _-Project Manager  _ .
i   .  .   .  _            l               l         .              .,               ,          I      ,,        I      ,,       1       ,-,-1I
Finance &       Eng!ineering    Agricultural                           . n        |                   Agricultural                        Engineering        Project       Agricultural |_
Accounts        (Eeuie           Eunin              li                                  iiin          Extension          Piac             osru.cto         Planing          Extension                                   I'
Un  L(E.eZIiveDviion(DvisEn(                                           (Eecuiv
tUnts         Engineer(        & Training       L J L.......J                      (Egeuiv          & Training        WAcount             Wing         Control Wig W& Training
Division                                                         | ODivision                          (Superintend-        (Executive       Wing
(Agricultural                                                      |   (Senior                          ing Engineer)      Engineer)         (Senior
Officer)                                                        | Agricultural                                                           Agricuttural
Officer)                                                             Officer)
SMS                                                Subject Matter Specialists                                                               M
(SMS)
Rupandehi Dist. r1
(DAOOI                                                Parsa Dist.    Bara Dist.     Rautahat Dist.                    Sunsari Dist.     Morang Dist.
IDADO)        (DADO)           (DADO)                           (DADDI             (DADDO)
District
Sub-centers
JT                        JT
Junior
Technician
JTA        Junior         JTA
Technician                                                                           Line of Administrative Authority
Assistant                                                           _               Line of Technical Responsibility
I   I                        |       |        | ~ i  I                                    .     Coordination Link
PLA      PLA       Panchayat       PLA      PLA      PLA
Level
Assistant
I   ~                 _                                                                                                                                                                                  C 
CF        CF       Contact          CF      CF
Farmer
September, 1978                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank- 191B3



- 73 -
Figure 5.2
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE 11 PROJECT
Project Organization, Stage II
NARAYANI ZONE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
BOARD (NZIDB)     __         _    DEPARTMENT OF
AGR ICULTURE
CENTRAL                   GENERAL                             REGIONAL
REGION                   MANAGER                            DIRECTOR OF
COORDINATION               (GM & SECR'Y)                      AGRICULTURE,
COMMITTEE                   NZIDB)                         CENTRAL REGION
l                                  |    SENIOR
AGR ICULTURAL
l                                       OFFICER
ADMINISTRATION       FINANCE        ENGINEERING               AGRICULTURAL
DIVISION          DIVISION         DIVISION                   DIVESION
DISTRICT          UNIT        UNIT         UNIT      |TPARSA  |       A
COORDINATION       TNO. 1        NO.2        NO.3          DIST.        DIST
COMMITTEES        EX. ENG.    EX. ENG.     EX. ENG.       DADO        DADO
Line of Administrative Authority
. ........... Line of Technical Responsibility for Agriculture
- - - - Liaison and Coordination
September, 1978                                                                World Bank - 19184



NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
TRAINING ORGANIZATION
Deputy Director General,
Agricultural Extension & Training
Senior Agricultural Training Officer
Agriculture
Consultants                                     -          Information
=  '  ~   ~  ~  ~ 1        Service
Regional Director]                                         Regional Director,                                         Regional Director
Agriculture, West                                         Agriculture, Central                                      Agriculture, Eastern
Region                                                     Region                                                     Region
- ---                 --          --          --         - -          - -        --
General
Manager
NZIDP
 Project                  AG                              m                            7|                                                       1       tAO  PAoject |  A
|    Manager              Trining                                                                                    I                          TrainingAO                                  Manager
Training                                    Training                                                 ~~~~Training                                   SMIDOP
:                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lm 
Subject Matter                                             I
]                         ~~~~~~~~~~Specialists ( SM S),                                   Project                                                     PrSM;jSMDDt
BLG ProjectI
Bha irava                                                  Janakpur                            rI |                       hara
Training Center                                            Training Center   |                                        Training Center                                     I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Engineering                                                                              SunanMorngEngineering
Engineeing                 hairawa                   Parsa                  BaaRautahat                                Traininginin
Training~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rii
Unit, BLGP                  Dist.                     Dist.                 Ds.D ist.                                Unit, NZ                                                              UitDMID
Line of Authority                        SMIDDP   Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project                                                             I_
_       - _  Liaison and Coordination                BLGP        Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project
September,  1978                                                                                           NZIDP      Narayani Zone Irrigation Deveopment Project                              World Bank - 19185                          ID



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE 11 PROJECT
Projected Cropping Pattern
Surface Water Area
APR        MAY          JUN         JUL          AUG         SEP         OCT         NOV          DEC         JAN         FEB         MAR
Nursery Bed
Middle Paddy                                                        25t
35%1/
/           ~~~~Pulses 15%/
Z           ~~~~Oilseeds 6%                  /t
Nursery Bed
7           g          ~~~~~~~Early l'oddy          XLate Paddy                               /      
30%35
Wheat
23%
Vegetables 4%
Sugar Cane 10%
Cropping Intensity 183%
World Bank -18961
September, 1978



- 76 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Draft Provisional In-Service Training Program
A.   Training in Engineering and Administration
1.   Foreign Training
(a) A 3 months tour overseas would be organized by the
Department of Irrigation about every 2 years for a
senior gazetted officer to study irrigation, drainage
and project management, probably in East Asia and
Pacific Region.
(b) A 3 months tour overseas would be organized by the
Department of Irrigation for 3 gazetted officers
every year during the monsoon period, to study
irrigation and drainage technology, probably in
East Asia.
(c) A 3 weeks tour to visit irrigation projects in the
subcontinent would be organized by the Department
of Irrigation for 2 gazetted officers every year.
(d) A 2 weeks tour to study project administration in
X similar type projects in the sub-continent for
2 gazetted officers about every two years.
2.   Local Training
(a) 3-4 day visits to Nepalese projects would be organized
by the Department of Irrigation for 2 officers every
year.
(b) 3-day seminars would be arranged by the Department of
Irrigation every 3 to 4 months, led by 2 lecturers from
universities and the project consultants, for all
gazetted staff who can be spared.
(c) One-day seminars monthly, led by project consultants,
for gazetted staff.
(d) 2-day seminars every 3 to 4 months, led by project
consultants, senior engineers or lecturers, for non-
gazetted staff.



- 77 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) One-day seminar monthly, for non-gazetted staff led by
project consultants.
(f) 3-4 day visits, twice a year to Nepalese projects, for
non-gazetted staff.
B.   Agricultural Training
1.   Overseas Training
(a) Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). About 10 SMSs would
be granted scholarships to study abroad for two years
towards Master of Science degrees.
(b) Gazetted Training and Extension Officers. About 15
officers would be granted fellowships to attend seminars
abroad for two to three months.
(c) Study Tours. About 24 officers would join tours organized
by the Department of Agriculture to visit extension pro-
jects in India and other countries for two to three weeks.
2.   Local Training
(a) Junior Technician. About 15 JTs who show good work perform-
ance would be granted scholarships to the Institute of Agri-
culture and Animal Sciences to complete three years study
for the Bachelor of Science degree in Agriculture.
(b) Pre-service Training. 4 weeks for Panchayat Level Assist-
ants (PLAs) to be held at Janakpur Training Center (JTC);
3 weeks for new Junior Technicians and Junior Assistant at JTC.
(c) In-Service Training. All extension personnel, at all levels,
would participate once every year in a one-week refresher
course. Some 20 one-week courses would be organized every
year at the JTC. PLAs would also receive fortnightly train-
ing at sub-district centers. In addition, 3 eight-week
courses a year would be organized at JTC to upgrade gazetted
staff in specific topics such as plant nutrition, diseases
and pests, etc.



- 78 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Monitoring and Project Evaluation
Objectives
1.        The objectives of monitoring and evaluation would be to:
(a) ensure that project works are constructed to the required
standards;
(b) provide early warning of any problems arising during project
implementation and operation;
(c) assess the benefits of irrigation and of agricultural sup-
porting services; and
(d) provide data for refining the technical design parameters
for future stages of development of the area.
Activities
2.        Quality of construction.  Project Planning, Survey, Design and
Quality Control Unit of the Engineering Division (ED) would be responsible for
testing materials and workmanship, independently of the Engineering Construc-
tion Unit, to ensure that specifications were being adhered to by contractors
and in force account work. In the event of faulty work being discovered in
tests, the Executive Engineer (ED), would be empowered to order that it should
be replaced satisfactorily at the contractor's cost. The Quality Control
Section, under the guidance of the project consultants throughout the construc-
tion period, would test random samples of construction materials in accordance
with internationally recognized standards, using the laboratory facilities at
Biratnagar. Materials would include cement, lime, gravel concrete aggregate,
sand and bricks. The Section would also carry out site tests of compacted
earthwork and road surfacing (for density), check concrete weight-batching
apparatus, cement content and water-cement ratio, and take concrete cube
samples for testing crushing strength at the intervals specified in the con-
tracts. The project consultants would closely advise quality control staff,
and would carry out about 10% of the tests. Results and calculations would
be checked by a qualified engineer, and entered on weekly test sheets, with
comments on unusual variations. Failed tests would immediately be reported
to the Executive Engineer of the Division. Test sheets would be available
for review by visiting supervision missions, and would be summarized at the
end of each construction season.



- 79 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        Progress and Cost Contr-,l.  Project progress would be reported in
similar form to that presently used under the Birganj Irrigation Project
(Narayani Zone). Progress reports would be submitted to IDA in March, July
and December. Each report would contain brief descriptions of the main
events during the period, the status of project staffing, the growth of the
area effectively commanded by canals and, as a management tool, charts showing
progress on survey and design, land acquisiton; tendering, evaluation and
award of contracts; delivery of equipment; and construction progress based
on (a) quantities completed in proportion to the final total, as reported by
the Construction Unit, and (b) value of work completed in relation to the
total cost, as reported by the Procurement Section. The Project Planning Unit
would monitor unit costs of both contract and force account works and, with
guidance from the project consultants, would update the estimated total cost
of the project every six months, for inclusion in the progress report.
4.        Hydrology.  To monitor the effectiveness of the distribution system
and to analyze losses, the discharge of the NEC would be recorded daily
at about ten gauge sites and metered weekly, while all secondary canals would
be gauged and recorded daily at their head regulators as well as at each
tertiary offtake, and metered monthly. The supplementary flow from streams
and rivers entering the NEC command would be gauged daily and their discharges
recorded at the point of crossing the NEC. Discharges of the major drains
would also be gauged and recorded for drainage design purposes. Deliveries
to farms would be measured at selected points and compared with the scheduled
deliveries to determine the effectiveness of the Water Users Groups' allocation.
5.        Annual Compilation of Cropping Patterns, Yield and Impact of
Extension Services. This data would be collected by the agricultural exten-
sion and research staff in cooperation with the District Agriculture Office.
Besides recording seasonally irrigated areas, yields and cropping patterns,
information should be collected on the number of contact farmers and "followers"
and estimated yield differences between "followers" and farmers who do not
follow extension advice. The data would be compiled and analyzed annually, and
the results would be submitted to IDA.
6.        Monitoring of Watertable.  About 70 small observation pipes would
be installed at selected sites in the irrigated area to monitor the depth
to watertable from ground level and to provide early warning of any potential
waterlogging hazards (para 8.10). The ED staff would be responsible for the
measurement which is simple and requires little skill. Records would be
retained at project headquarters and available for IDA supervision missions.
7.        Evaluation Reports.  The Evaluation and Project Analysis Division
(EPAD) of the DA, assisted by project consultants, would carry out evaluation
studies at appropriate intervals. The studies would be on a stratified
sample basis and cover cropping patterns; yields; input requirements; use
of hired labor; farm incomes; non-farm incomes and their sources; marketing
channels and prices; farm capital owned; credit channels; interest rates;
tenancy pattern and arrangement. Based on the annual monitoring reports and
the surveys, EPAD would prepare two comprehensive evaluation reports to be
submitted to IDA by June 30, 1983 and June 30, 1986.



- 80 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        Project Completion Report.  The Narayani Zone Irrigation Develop-
ment Board would prepare a project completion report to cover actual project
implementation schedule, project expenditures, cost of executing project
works, staffing schedule, design, and construction standards. The report
should analyze any deviation from the appraisal estimates; if any. The
project completion report would be completed within six months after final
disbursements of the Credit and submitted to IDA for review.



- 81 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Basis for Economic Analysis
Official Exchange Rate (OER)
1.         For some years, HMGN has maintained a dual exchange rate, one in
terms of US dollars and the other in terms of Indian rupees. Since March 20,
1978, the rate of exchange has been set at NRs 12.0 to US$1.00, and NRs 1.45
to one Indian rupee. Conversion of border prices has been made at this rate.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
2.         Tariff and trade restrictions introduce a distortion in the price
relationships between traded goods (valued at market prices), and non-traded
goods (valued at local prices). The benefits of the project are evaluated
at world market prices. In order to make the cost comparable to the benefits,
a SCF is applied to the price of non-traded goods and consumption. In the
absence of trade restrictions, the SCF can be approximately calculated using
the formula:
SCF =               M           1/
X + Sx + M + Tm - Tx  -
3.         On the basis of official trade data in 1974/75, 1975/76 and 1976/77,
this calculation gives an SCF of 0.95 which is consistent with a shadow
exchange rate of NRs 12.6 to US$1. However, since this estimate does not take
into consideration quantitative restriction, it provides only an upper limit
for the SCF. On the other hand, HMGN has also encouraged exports through an
export incentive exchange rate of NRs 16 to US$1. This is consistent to
a SCF = 0.75. Because of the approximate nature of this estimate, a SCF =
0.9 has been used for the economic analysis. In order to take into account
the error in estimating SCF, a sensitivity analysis has been performed
(Chapter 8).
Economic Prices for Agricultural Outputs and Inputs
4.         The economic prices for traded goods such as rice, wheat, maize,
sugarcane, oilseeds, fertilizers, plant protection are based on their border
prices at the OER. The domestic components are adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.
Detailed calculations are given in Table 1.
1/   X:  fob value of exports at the OER; M:  cif value of imports of OER;
Sx: export subsidies; Tm: import duties; Tx: export taxes.



- 82 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 2
Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
5.        At present, the population in the Stage II area is estimated at
69,300, out of which about 85% are engaged in farming activities. The
present labor force rate is estimated at 55% of total population. On the
basis of 250 days per worker per annum, the total labor supply is estimated
at 8.1 M man-days. Assuming an annual population growth rate 2.1% per year,
and the same labor force rate, the labor supply at full development in year
10 would be 9.7 man-days per year.
6.        Tables 2 and 3 give estimates of monthly labor distribution per
crop per ha and total monthly requirements in the project area, respectively.
The present annual demand is some 2.4 M man-days or only about 30% of the
total labor supply. Furthermore, labor demand has a pronounced seasonal
pattern, with peak monthly requirements occurring in May and June (about 80%
and 65% of total labor supply respectively). This peak demand is provided
for by migrant labor from the neighboring Indian State of Bihar and from the
Hills, where unemployment is severe. However, in slack months, agricultural
labor demand is as low as 10% to 15% of the labor supply. Consequently, the
current wage level probably overstates the economic opportunity cost of farm
labor.
7.        On the basis of available information from the project area and
experience from similar areas, the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor at
different times of the year can be represented by an "S-shaped" curve. The
marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of demand
and increases when more labor is absorbed into field works. The increase in
the opportunity cost is initially slow and reflects the scarcity of alter-
native productive employment, but it is more rapid when full labor supply is
utilized. At employment level above the maximum available in the area, the
opportunity cost would again increase at a slower rate since a large number
of migrants would be attracted to the project area from neighboring areas.
In practice, it is reasonable to approximate this idealized "S-shaped" curve
by three straight segments (Figure 1). The monthly incremental economic cost
of farm labor is presented in Table 3.
Economic Cost of Unskilled Construction Labor
8.        The improvement of the NEC and the construction of additional canals
and drains would be carried out by labor-intensive methods during the agri-
cultural slack season (November-March). The main source of labor supply for
these activities would come from the project area. Since the availability
of labor for construction purposes is associated with seasonal agricultural
demand for labor, the constant financial wage rate (NRs 8 per man-day) may
under or overstate the opportunity cost of construction labor. Thus, the
opportunity cost for construction labor is estimated from the "S-shaped"
curve. This would give an economic opportunity cost of NRs 3.3 per man-day.
Experiences elsewhere indicate that laborers would require 25-30% premium to
shift from agriculture to construction since the latter is harder physical



- 83 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3
work than the former. Thus, the economic opportunity cost of construction
labor would be NRs 4.3 per man-day or about 60% of the economic market wage
rate (NRs 8 time SCF of 0.9).
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)
9.        The construction of project components is carried out by equipment,
skilled and unskilled labor. For the economic analysis, the construction
conversion factor is estimated as follows:
(a) Traded Component. This component includes capital intensive
works which require imported materials. Since it is traded,
the conversion factor is 1.00. It is estimated that about
40% of the construction costs fall under this category.
(b) Non-traded Component. This component includes works that
require skilled labor and locally manufactured materials.
The SCF of 0.9 is used as the conversion factor for these
works. About 20% of the construction costs are included in
this category.
(c) Unskilled Labor. The analysis of shadow wage rates for
unskilled labor is given in para 8. The conversion factor
of 0.60 has been applied to about 40% of the construction
costs which fall under this category:
Conversion Factor
Traded Items                                  1.0
Non-traded Items                              0.9
Unskilled Labor                               0.8
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)          0.82
(weighted average)
Project Costs
10.       For the economic analysis, the construction costs of the surface
and groundwater components are multiplied to the CCF of 0.82, the operation
and maintenance costs (including extension about NRs 110 per ha) to the SCF
of 0.9, and equipment as well as technical services to the OER, to express
them in terms of border prices. This would make the cost stream comparable
to the benefit stream which is valued at border prices.
Development Period
11.       Civil works in the surface area (12,720 ha) would be completed by
1981/82. Since the works in the first two irrigation blocks would be completed
within two years of credit effectiveness, some project benefits would accrue
during implementation. On average, full development of the project is assumed



-84 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 4
to be reached about 6 years after project completion. In the tubewell area,
full development would be reached earlier due to shorter gestation period.
It is assumed that full development would be reached about 4 years after
well construction.
12.       Using the foregoing assumptions, the economic evaluation has been
analyzed in Chapter VIII.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Paddy   Wheat   Maize   Sugarcane   Oilseeds   Urea   TSP   MP
Projected 1985 World Market Price (US$ ton) l/           384      163     139       342          457        180   155   72
Adjustment for Quality Differentials (%)                  70      100     100       100          100        100   100  100
Projected Price Adjusted for Quality (US$ ton)           269      163     139       342          457        180   155   72
International Shipping and Handling (US$ ton)-/          +25 4/  +30 -/  +30        +20          +40       +20   +20  +20
FOB/CIF Biratnagar Price (US$/ton)                       294      193      169      362          497        200   175   92
(NRs/ton)                    3530    2320    2030       4340         5964       2400  2100 1100    I
Go
Transport and Handling Cost in Domestic Market                                                                                 n
(NRs/ton) ./                 -140    -140    -200       -400         -400       +200  +200 +200   1
Farm-gate Price            (NRs/ton)                    3340    2180    1830       3940         5560       2600  2300 1310)
Processing Ratio (%)                                      65      100      100        9           70        100   100  100
Adjusted Farm gate Prices (rounded)                     2200    2200    1800        360         3900       2600  2300 1300
1/  Source: IBRD Price Forecasts dated April 1978.  These forecasts are expressed in 1977 constant prices.
2/ Pricing Basis:
Rice         : Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok
Wheat        : Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring, ex-store Thunder Bay.
Jute         : Bangladesh White D, FOB Chittagong
Oilseeds    : Nigerian, cif Europe
Urea         : Bagged, FOB Japan (46% Nitrogen)
TSP          : Bulk, FOB Gulf (60% Potassium)
MP           : Bulk, FOB Vancouver (60% Potassium)                                                               X X
3/  Nepal is a net exporter of foodgrain and jute, net importer of sugar, oilseeds and fertilizer.                         1 L
4/  For paddy and wheat, the international shipping and handling costs from Bangkok and Canada to India
(the imported nation of Nepalese rice) outweighs that from Nepal to India. Transport cost of Jute
from Bangladesh and Nepal to any importing country would be similar.
5/ Adjusted by a SCF of 0.9 for the elements having non-traded components.
September, 1978



cn
ct                                                            NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
H                                                Labor Requirements per ha by month
Yield    Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  M     June  July  Aug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec              Total
CROP                  t/ha                                                                               M/D
1.3                              5    41    28    6    5    16   15                116
Local Paddy           1.4                              5    41    28    6    5    17   16                 118
2.2                              5    41    28    6    5    20   17                122
2.2                        6   57    28       7   13   10                          121
HYV Paddy             2.3                         6   57    26       7   15   10                          121
3.0                        7   57    26       8   19   12                          129
5.7       14   11         15    8    15    10   14   14    11   15   10            137
Vegetables            8.0       16   12          15    8    15    11   16   14    11   15   10            143                       o
15.0       25   17         15    8    15    18   24   14    11   15   10            172
22       28   39   30   20    9         5     5                21   21   19        197
Sugarcane             30        33   50   38   20    9        5      5               21   21   19        221
40        38   75   53   20    9        5     5                26   26   20        277
1.0        7    3   26    6                                     8   13   15         78
Wheat                 1.5        9    4   31    8                                      9   15   15         91
2.5       13    6   37   10                                    12   16   17        111
.3       8    4   16    4                                      2   15    7         56
Oilseeds               .4        8    4   19    4                                      2   15    7         59
.7      12    6   24    5                                      6   14   10         77
.6            10   15                                          1    1              27
Pulses                 .6            10   15                                           1    1              27
.8            14   17                                          6    2    2         43
F -
Maize                 2.5       20   11   16  31    12                                                     90M 



Annex 3
- 87 -                                     Tbe
-~~~~~~~ ~~~Table 3
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
Labor Requirements                     Economic
Opportunity Cost
FWO        FW                      FWO       F
------'000 md --------            ------NRs'000-------
January            111.1      170.1                   271.0     433.2
February           118.5      192.0                   290.6     496.8
March              260.4       370.4                  705.4   1,073.4
April              138.6       172.5                  345.5      439.3
May                556.2       547.9                1,845.0   1,814.1
June               433.4r    443.8                  1,307.1   1,346.5
July               201.1      224.0                   523.0      591.6
August             172.6       212.4                  439.6      555.3
September          121.7      139.2                   300.2      347.0
October            163.9      235.2                   415.2      627.6
November           203.6       246.8                  532.3      662.0
December           120.1       157.3                  296.1      396.3
Total         2,601.2    3,111.6                  7,271.0   8,783.1
Incremental Economic Cost of Farm Labor                  1512.1
September, 1978



- 88 -                                 Annex 3
Figure 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
NARAYANI ZONE IRRtGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
NRs/man-day             Economic Opportunity Cost of Labor
6
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
4
Labor Demand
Labor Supply (%)
20             40              60              80             100
Footnote: The shape of the curve is based on the following assumptions:
(i)   at minimum employment levels, the marginal cost of labor would
be the value of additional consumption needed for family to
undertake field works (NRs 1.5 per man-day), plus the value of
foregone activities (NRs 0.5 per man-day).
(ii)   when the monthly farm labor requirements exceed the off-peak
monthly family labor supply (taken as 50% of the full supply),
the marginal cost is given by the slack financial wage rate of
NRs 3.0 per man-day multiplied by the SCF of 0.9 (NRs 2.7 per man-day).
(iii)   when about 80% of available farm labor is employed (the present
peak level of demand in the project area), the marginal cost is
given by the financial peak wage (NRs 5.0) multiplied by the SCF
of 0.9 (NRs 4.5 per man-day); and
(iv)   when the employment is larger than the estimated supply of farm
labor from the area, the labor would be drawn from near-by area
and opportunity cost would slightly increase to NRs 6.0 per man-
day, multiplied by the SCF of 0.9 (NRs 5.4).
September, 1978



- 89-                             ANNEX 4
NEPAL
NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE II PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Documents Relating to the Project
1.   Final Report on the Development of Irrigation in the Central and Eastern
Terai Plain, Nippon Koei Co., 1972.
2.   Study Report of Stage II Area for Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Project, Nippon Koei Co. Ltd., Birganj, December 1976.
3.   Up-dated Data on Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project, Department
of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meterology, HMGN, with Nippon Koei Co.,
Birganj, August 1977.
4.   Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project, Stage II, Project Imple-
mentation Report, March 1978, Birganj.
5.   Agreement between His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the Government
of India on the Gandak Irrigation and Power Project, December 4, 1959.
6.   Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board (Formation) Order 1973.
7.   Supplementary Report on Community, Privately-Owned Tubewells, February
1978.
8.   Study on the Effectiveness of Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants
(PLAAs) Program in the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
of Nepal, January 1977.
B.   Selected Working Papers
1.   Summary of Economic Survey Results, NZIDB, April/May 1976.
2.   Report on Crop Cutting and Questionnaire Survey, September 1977.
3.   Groundwater Level Situation in Stage I and Stage II area, Mike Barber,
September 1977.
4.   Agriculture Development Bang of Nepal, Ray Headworth, November 1977.
5.   National Extension Reorganization, Stage I, April 1978.






I  I Proiecr areas                                                                           NEPAL                                                                  C c
Rivers & streams                                                                                                                                                             M
Barrage
_   giaeC:r-I                                   NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE HI PROJECT                                                   I
()  PcPwer swarioo                                                                         Project Location                                            2-             z            ;
L          BRaus                                                                                                                                             27'30'-
Rao ways                                                                                                                                                 IN    A
-  --   tlereratio-al boundaries  -b
N          E          P        A         L
W ndak_j.r',.                     .                                                   3i Fg;aS;Di;=,                                                                                  
:5 ?1' . ) ; . :@ \,, t 71. 1 :: . 0: 1:".52!':n' . .= f . D i uL{USl'::,. ir;,l::; "]!: Y: X \ T KKAHMAAND
fs,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
: SG\t;Ct;C; ->:;:VXl:-.\X:;Nr A,e3;1  1 -= ::>;:.V:q.; =; ;;:;ftA C  ;:g:fZ:S.  =.g-t=::;,;::2l.:: ,;,_g5J.,A1~,J,,.,,         /
'           ;/    Xga/StY  ;0 wq    eS $ };  ;S5-"   p :: 4 = Jrt 'N4>  i,-1N\8  =- ;,&;2;$q\'L!;                                            /
,l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V7: :,  !  <>2g,-:  (XA5::^*i:X%i  ;=>.x.;S +, 
;   /  ; ffi 5:: \^t423h'-9_:;;  iturj:.r t::;;O.OO;b4G ;                  r,te r         ::.''                    ~LF






IBRD 13537
NEPAL                              APRIL 197i
1 . t 0 \ __ _Y--~ 8                                                                                             , Noroyani Zone Irrigation Development Project
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Stage 21
~~~~~                          "S                          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL  PLAN
!A I0N trt lDh  e                                 <S^-           i      s>,^       -         \      8                              \\                                  ;-ain canal                      -          Bastind roads
I. tdl3lA  1,  N                                                                                                                 -  - Secondary canals            -.---v---- Roilway~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oi..
t  3  7  :  ( f <   Jt{; rT ges~s                             --                                                                                                                      Rivers                               Transmission lines
iorraaaw                                                                                  0      2:                                   5 0 foi .1 ,-./   \   {   Paswonipj  XD   9  Kil   8   L  3 Gro--dwoter dev-lopm-nt     Towns
PT  -.4, area                                                                                                                                               n ao   eoon\at l
j Acor-toty HQ                         S                                                         ---Bil-nndre
:r> diotk LL    B Bloc  V )
~~  '.                                                            Block   liv~~~~BI-  V
i-s    : t          ORG ANJ                             8;-k ;,                                 ,-
~Wt_ BLcck~   kiocoIft ~
od. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Gs






IBRD 13648
_______________________________________________________________ __  -                                          88-    Moy 1978
._ 810.                                12                                     84'8
N EPAL
C H I N A                                  NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT STAGE I PROJECT
INDIA                                                                                                NATIONAL EXTENSION SERVICES DISTRICTS
Mountain Region .                Rivers
?  ._>  Hil Rec,ion           0 Development Region Boundaries
Inner Terni             ~~~~~Adrministrol,ve Zonal Boundaries
i\ 4/nlTer 3                 iW * * h , Kcthmandu Vciley -  District Boundories
Kathmandu Volley         -.-      nternaiional Boundaries
t  er ekm  g  % 4'i q' i <  \>  5      5-Itd-'                                          -,. ,,21 OngoinrJ Project~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ogoin Prjec
a4<- t aT,AAAM \t .............. +/ jW .. _ffi~~~~~~~~~~~ j DEQA 0 <t g X m Proposed ProjectdProieG
f                                                                                                         Pro posed r Agr culultrl EOsnSIon  Component Districts
tV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
INDIA  >'%  BURMA~~~~AL ,4G  A                                                                                        HI   
\  I            z          o ~  ~~~~~~~~~ 20  40  60 00  00O 00   140alsenrpdvteoldAsfeXURvlfrhcnMoc 60
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Al  C H I N A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      
02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                      ZO AN



