Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14639
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1848-YAR)
JUNE 21, 1995
Private Sector Development & Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units      = Yemeni Dinars (YD) and Yemeni Riyals (YR)
YD  1 =  Yemeni Riyals 26        =  US$ 2.90 (May 1985)
YD  I =  Yemeni Riyals 26        =  US$ 2.17 (exchange rate for this project)
US$ 1 =  Yemeni Riyals 12        =  YD 0.462 (exchange rate for this project)
US$ 1 =  Yemeni Riyals 120       =  YD 4.616 (market rate of exch. March 1995)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System British/US System
1 meter (m)      =   3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)    =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (m2)    =  0.386 sq miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)      0.984 long ton (Ig ton)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Arab Fund        -      Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
GCRB             -      General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
HA               -      Highway Authority
ICB              -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR              -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA              -      International Development Association
MOP              -      Ministry of Planning
OPEC             -      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR              -      Project Completion Report
PDRY             -      People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
ROY              -      Republic of Yemen
SAR              -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR              -      Special Drawing Right
TA               -      Technical Assistance
WB               -      World Bank
YAR              -      Yemen Arab Republic
YD               -      Yemeni Dinar
YR               -      Yemeni Riyal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1848-YAR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..................................................    i
Evaluation Summary            ....................                  .....................    ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction   .................... ..1....................... 
Project Objectives                      .........................                                        2
Achievement of Project Objectives and Implementation Record .......... .                                 3
Project Sustainability                  ..........................                                       7
Association Performance                   ..........................                                     7
Borrower Performance                     .........................                                       8
Assessment of Outcome                    ..........................                                      8
Future Operation                     ..........................                                          9
Key Lessons Learned                    .....................................                             9
PART HI: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table      1.    Summary of Assessment  .............................  10
Table      2.    Related IDA  Credits ................................   12
Table      3.    Project Timetable   .................................   14
Table      4.     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...                    .......  15
Table      5.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ..................  15
Table      6.    Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................  15
Table      7.    Studies Included in Project ............................  16
Table      8A.  Project Costs  ....................................   17
Table      8B.   Project Financing   .................................   18
Table      9.    Economic Costs and Benefits (A-H)  ......................   19
Table      10.   Status of Legal Covenants  ............................  26
Table      11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..............  27
Table      12.   IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................  27
Table      13.   IDA  Resources: Missions   ............................  28
Appendix I:    IDA  Amendments to Credit Agreement  ....................  29
References       .       ............................ .................  30
Map: IBRD 19909R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 13ank authorization.|






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1848-YAR)
Implementation Completion Report
Preface
1.       This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sana'a-Hodeidah Road
Rehabilitation Project in the Republic of Yemen, for which Credit 1848-YAR in the amount of
SDR 14 million (US$ 18.0 million equivalent) was approved on October 20, 1987 and made
effective October 6, 1988. The original credit was made to the Yemen Arab Republic, which
merged with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen to become the Republic of Yemen in
May 1990.
2.       The credit was closed on May 31, 1994, two and a half years after the original closing
date of December 31, 1991. Before the Credit became effective SDR 5.7 million (approximately
US$ 7.9 million equivalent) was canceled, and the final disbursement from the remaining
commitment took place on February 27, 1995. The remaining undisbursed balance of SDR 1.665
million (US$ 2.487 million equivalent) was also canceled. Co-financing was provided by the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development (Arab Fund) and the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund.
3.       This ICR was prepared by Terje Wolden (Task Manager) and Tribhuwan Narain
(Operations Officer) of the Private Sector Development & Infrastructure Division, Country
Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region, and reviewed by Alastair J. McKechnie
(Division Chief) and Gianni Brizzi (Project Adviser). The preparation of the ICR began during
the final supervision mission in February 1994. A completion mission was not undertaken due to
the civil war in Yemen later in 1994. The ICR is based on information contained in the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, material in the
correspondence files, internal IDA documents, and on interviews with relevant Bank staff.
Although the Borrower/Implementing Agency did not provide written comments on the report,
IDA was verbally informed that they concur with the report's findings and conclusions.






ii
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1848-YAR)
Implementation Completion Report
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       This Credit was the seventh in a series of IDA highway credits to the former Yemen
Arab Republic (YAR) aimed at assisting the Government in rehabilitating and improving its road
system. The Yemen Arab Republic and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
merged on May 22, 1990, to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY), which then took over
responsibility for the project.
Project Objectives
2.       The primary objective of the project was to assist the Government in rehabilitating,
maintaining, and improving its road system. It aimed to conserve and develop economic
resources, prevent potentially high road reconstruction and vehicle operating costs, and repair
flood damage to important road links.
3.       These objectives were incorporated in the project design, which included road works:
rehabilitating and strengthening the Sana'a-Hodeidah road, flood-damaged sections of Sana'a-
Marib road and the Harad bridge; financing equipment for road maintenance, and technical
assistance for studies and assistance to the domestic construction industry. The project also
provided for (a) undertaking studies for priority projects and identifying needed institutional
reforms; (b) adjusting fuel pricing and vehicle taxation to ensure more appropriate cost recovery
from heavy vehicle users for wear and tear to the network caused by their vehicles; (c)
protecting infrastructure by instituting adequate fund allocation and management procedures; (d)
increasing the capacity of the domestic construction industry and expanding domestic
employment opportunities, and (e) assisting in mobilizing external co-financing.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.       The project's major physical component - rehabilitating and strengthening a 68-
kilometer section of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road - had to be dropped from the IDA financing
package after a procurement decision by the Government deviated from IDA procurement
guidelines. While these works were completed using other funding, the Association did not
supervise them and cannot evaluate their sustainability. IDA financing enabled flood-damaged
sections of the Marib road to be repaired and the Harad bridge rehabilitation to be completed,
although the sustainability of the bridge work remains questionable. Implementation of technical
assistance, though intermittent, was effective. Equipment worth US$ 4.5 million was delivered



iii
as planned. The very adverse effects the Persian Gulf Crisis had on Yemen's economy also
caused significant delays in project execution and reduced traffic flows so that rates of return
were lower than expected. The steps to improve cost recovery from road users by adjusting fuel
pricing and vehicle taxation were never carried out partly due to the negative effect of the
unification process and external events, such as the Gulf war, on the Government's continuity
and commitment to reform.
5.       The project, as conceived, was consistent with the Government's sector development
plan and the Association's assistance strategy, which included five earlier highway projects and
a port project. The project was well formulated and easily accommodated into IDA lending plans
during the course of its preparation. It addressed the main transport sector priority of the
Government's 1987-91 Third Plan: the Sana'a-Taiz-Hodeidah-Sana'a road network. Its appraisal
was, however, postponed after oil was discovered in the Safir area, and the Government asked
that development of the Marib-Safir highway be brought forward. The Association agreed, and
the Marib-Safir Highway Project (Credit 1726-YAR) was appraised in November 1985, while
appraisal for the Sana'a-Hodeidah Road Project was deferred to 1986.
6.       Project preparation and appraisal took into account and responded well to changing
needs of the Borrower and the sector. In fact damages to road sections inflicted by floods after
appraisal were assessed by a post-appraisal mission and included in the project during
negotiations. Appraisal and financing arrangements addressed co-financier interests and
procurement requirements. As funding for the Sana'a-Taiz section was secured from other
sources the project scope was narrowed and redefined. As co-financier interests in participating
grew, the road works were divided into four independent contracts that could be bid under each
financier's procurement requirements. Negotiations and Board presentation were also rescheduled
to accommodate the timing of co-financier appraisals.
7.       In spite of thorough and flexible preparation, implementation suffered due to
procurement-related delays before effectiveness. Credit effectiveness was delayed by about nine
months, from January to October 1988, after losing bidders complained about the procurement
process for employing contractors for the section of the road IDA had agreed to finance. After
careful review, the Association upheld those complaints. Rather than reopen the bidding, the
Government acquired additional resources from the co-financiers for the Sana'a-Mafraq section
of the road, and IDA funds associated with the road works contract (SDR 5.7 million) were
canceled, and revised implementation and disbursement plans agreed with the Borrower. In
August 1990, the Credit Agreement (Schedule I) was revised as proposed by the Government.
8.       Project implementation subsequently focused on: (a) rehabilitating (i) flood damaged
road sections (Ibb-Jibla, Marib-Sana'a), and (ii) the Harad bridge; (b) technical assistance for
(i) developing the domestic construction industry; (ii) carrying out road engineering and
feasibility studies for four roads (Kit-Assada 30 Km, Marina-Aldalid 150 Km, Salif road 60 Km
and Hajja-Kushum 63 Km), and (iii) studies of erosion, siltation, and road safety, and (c)
procurement of maintenance equipment.



iv
9.        The Highway Authority (HA) awarded rehabilitation contracts for the flood-damaged
roads in late 1989 - some 18 months behind the original implementation schedule. Contracts
for construction materials and equipment were awarded in April 1990. However, by early 1991,
with deliveries nearly complete, the delay had been reduced to about six months. Subsequent
work progressed satisfactorily on these roads, even though the contractor on the Marib-Sana'a
road abandoned the job and the HA/General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB) finished
critical sections under force account.
10.      The Harad Bridge's superstructure (bridge deck) had collapsed shortly after its
completion in 1981 because of structural deficiencies caused by poor workmanship in
combination with inadequate design-load standards and high axle loads. The bridge was an
important trade link to Saudi Arabia that had been included in Yemen's 1986 Highway Master
Plan, and the Government asked that it be included in the revised project. The contract to design
the bridge superstructure and the supervision contract was awarded in late 1989, and IDA agreed
to finance the works based on a final design submitted in early 1991. Due to lack of responses
from bidders - due, at least in part, to the Persian Gulf Crisis - the Government invited pre-
selected bidders to bid for the works. It awarded the contract only in April 1992, which
warranted an extension of the project closing date to December 31, 1993. However exceptional
flooding in 1992 and 1993 delayed the contractor in mobilizing works. More importantly, the
flooding exposed a problem of siltation of the river that reduced the opening under the bridge
and put the adequacy of the bridge's original hydrological design into question - and raised
questions as to the need to consider siltation-prevention measures and the possible redesign of
bridge. Based on the Government's request IDA allowed a final extension of the closing date for
the contractor to finish the work - with an agreement that the Ministry of Construction would
prepare an action plan within five months to address the problem of flash flooding. The bridge
works were completed, but the action plan was not received - Yemen was then on the brink
of civil war - and the project closed on May 31, 1994. Shortly thereafter, the bridge opened
for traffic.
11.      The four road feasibility studies were completed as scheduled, but the road safety and
coastal siltation and soil erosion studies were somewhat delayed. Technical assistance for the
domestic construction industry was mobilized after considerable delay. As appraised, three
experts, hired by HA, were to train private domestic contractors in modem management
techniques and practices. The team leader was hired in August 1989. After two years of working
closely with Yemeni counterparts and domestic construction contractors, the team developed
manuals and provided training to contractors. The impact of this technical assistance was not
immediately apparent, as construction entered a long slack period reflecting the deep recession
in Yemen. As the construction industry came out of the slump again in 1993, however, the
effectiveness of the training became apparent, and it is estimated that domestic contractors are
now carrying out more than half of all road construction related works.
12.         At appraisal the overall economic rate of return (computed over ten years) for the
Sana'a-Hodeidah road was estimated at 29%. An ex-post evaluation shows an average ERR of
about 21 %. While lower than the appraisal estimate, this rate of return is still quite creditable,



v
particularly given delays the project encountered. The original contractor abandoned the project
during the Gulf Crisis and GCRB executed the works under force account. Rehabilitation of the
bridge and the flood-damaged roads were unavoidable expenses, and no ERRs were calculated.
Overall Assessment of Outcome
13.      Project outcome can be described as mixed. While the Sana'a-Hodeidah road
rehabilitation was completed, after delays, and its economic rate of return - averaging 21% for
the four road sections - was quite acceptable (though below the appraisal estimate of about
29%), IDA dropped out of this component before project effectiveness and could not contribute
to the implementation of the main construction works.
14.      The important project objectives of improving fuel pricing and vehicle taxation to
ensure more appropriate cost recovery from truck users for the wear and tear their vehicles
cause to the network, and protecting infrastructure by improving fund allocation and management
procedures were not achieved.
15.      The rehabilitation of flood damaged road sections and bridges, and the technical
assistance for the domestic construction industry were carried out as planned, though there were
significant delays, and the sustainability of the Harad bridge rehabilitation remains questionable.
The equipment to be procured under the project was also delivered as planned, strengthening the
capacity of the HA to undertake maintenance work.
Key Lessons Learned
16.      One key lesson taken from this project - and put into practice as it evolved - is the
need to assess early on potential Borrower problems with procurement and other Bank/IDA
procedures and provide close supervision when difficulties are anticipated. Thus, the Association
monitored the procurement process for the rehabilitation of the Ibb-Jibla and Marib-Sana'a roads
and the Harad bridge much more closely, and is continuing this on-site supervision in the
ongoing Multi- Mode Transport and upcoming Transport Rehabilitation Projects.
17.      Another lesson of the Project is that complex institutional changes are often not
carried out successfully unless the Borrower is strongly committed to them and there is an
appropriate constituency supporting their implementation. This can often be accomplished by
making institutional change the fulcrum on which a project rests and testing government
commitment through the requesting of appropriate up-front actions.
18.      On the technical side, the experience with the Harad bridge points out the importance
of frequent on-site supervision and taking early action if the assumptions underlying design
standards need to be changed to take account of changed circumstances.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1848-YAR)
Implementation Completion Report
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction
1.    This Credit is the seventh in a series of IDA credits designed to assist the former Yemen
Arab Republic (YAR) in rehabilitating and improving its road system. The Yemen Arab Republic
and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) merged on May 22, 1990, to form the
Republic of Yemen (ROY), which took over responsibility for the project. Related IDA credits
are as shown in Table 2.
2.    Before the project's inception in late 1986 the Ministry of Planning (MOP) undertook a
broad Transport Sector Review that led to a proposed set of sector investments under the Third
Five Year Plan (1987-91). IDA reviewed these sector investments in the Transport Sector
Memorandum (Report No. 4990-YAR). and found them satisfactory. MOP/IDA carried out a joint
identification of priority areas for future work that suggested increased emphasis on: (i) improving
administration of the transport system; (ii) maintenance and rehabilitation of existing roads; and
(iii) port expansion to respond to the increase in traffic due to oil activities.
3.    The Government's policy also aimed at recovering all costs of providing transport services.
Road user charges were levied through vehicle import duties, registration fees, road taxes, driving
license fees, and taxes on fuel and tires. These charges were adequate to cover only routine
maintenance of roads, and the cost-recovery situation deteriorated due to inflation as the riyal
devalued against other currencies, road maintenance costs increased. and road user charges and
fuel prices were not adjusted correspondingly. Since unification, Government revenues have
steadily decreased in real terms as a result of high inflation and the decline in worker remittances
after the Gulf War.
4.    IDA  assistance strategy for Yemen's transport sector concentrated on developing
infrastructure to support productive areas of the economy by addressing institutional and policy
issues, and manpower development needs. Project preparation and appraisal took into account key
considerations of this strategy, such as rationalizing transport-sector expenditures, reducing
transport costs and reconstruction needs, improving cost recovery from road users, addressing
wasteful fuel subsidies, and developing the domestic construction industry.
5.    The project originally intended to develop the Sana'a-Taiz-Hodeidah-Sana'a main roads.
When funding for the Sana'a-Taiz section was secured from other sources, project scope was
narrowed and redefined in 1985. Appraisal was deferred to November 1986 after a Government
request to advance the processing of the Marib-Safir Highway Project (Credit 1726-YAR), which
was important for oil exploration-related traffic induced by the refinery at Safir. This provided
additional preparation time that was used to improve cost estimates and firm up co-financing. By



2
September 1986 the Highway Authority (HA) and its consultants, had prepared draft tender
documents and bills of quantities for the Sana'a-Hodeidah road sections. The Arab and OPEC
Funds expressed interest in co-financing the project. The Final Executive Project Summary
(November 6, 1986) and the subsequent appraisal confirmed project objectives as rehabilitating
the road, and providing technical assistance to support the domestic construction industry.
6.     During negotiations in June 1987, it was agreed that Government would (i) allocate
adequate budgetary resources for road maintenance; (ii) review and decide with the Association,
on an annual basis, important policy issues such as the criteria for fuel pricing, and road user
charges, and (iii) initiate important institutional improvements through systematic technical
assistance to the private domestic construction industry. The delegation also confirmed that
flooding had caused significant damage to several bridges and road sections. It provided IDA with
damage assessments from the flood-stricken sections of the Sana'a-Marib road (175 Km). The
Association agreed to send a mission to confirm cost estimates and possibly raise the IDA
financing of the project.
7.    Based on the findings of the post-appraisal mission, the IDA credit was increased from
US$10 million to US$14 million to finance one of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road sections, road
maintenance equipment, flood-damaged roads and bridges, and support for the technical assistance
program at the Highway Authority.
Project Objectives
8.     The primary objective of the project was to assist the Government in its rehabilita-
tion/improvement program for the main road network. This would help preserve valuable capital
investments necessary to exploit economic resources, avoid the high costs of complete road re-
construction, and reduce vehicle operating expenses. Other objectives were to: (i) develop the
capability of the private domestic contracting industry; (ii) encourage reforms in transport
institutions; (iii) support necessary changes in fuel pricing policy and vehicle taxation to assure
adequate cost recovery from heavy vehicle users for the wear and tear they caused the road
network; (iv) protect road infrastructure through adequate allocation of funds to support a
systematic maintenance program, and (v) assist in attracting and coordinating external financing.
9.    To achieve the above objectives the following project components were included:
(a)   Road works:
(i)   rehabilitation/strengthening of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road (including Markha
junction road); and
(ii)  rehabilitation of flood damaged roads and bridges on the Sana'a-Marib,
Taiz-Mafraq and Hodeidah-Saudi Border road.



3
(b)   Technical Assistance:
(i)   for construction supervision of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road works;
(ii)  to the domestic construction industry to strengthen its civil works imple-
mentation capability and improve its efficiency;
(iii)  for the preparation of future projects, and
(iv)  for assisting Government in addressing transport sector policy issues.
(c)   Procurement of road maintenance equipment.
10.   A 3 1/4 year project implementation period was envisaged. The total cost of the project
was estimated at US$57.0 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of 77%, of
which US$18.0 million or 32% was to be financed under the IDA credit. The Arab and OPEC
Funds had agreed to co-finance the Sana'a-Hodeidah road.
Achievement of Project Objectives and Implementation Record
11.   The Sana'a-Hodeidah road works were divided into four sections, of which IDA had agreed
to finance one (the 68 km road section between Sana'a and Mafraq) at an estimated cost of US$9.2
million. Three sections totalling 163 Km were to be financed jointly by Arab Fund (US$23.2
million), OPEC Fund (US$4.4 million), and the Government (US$5.8 million) under one contract
in parallel with the IDA-financed section.
12.   The section IDA had agreed to finance was tendered under ICB rules, and an international
consultant served as an advisor during the tendering and evaluation processes. A committee
comprising members of the Government's Central Purchase and Tenders Committee and engineers
from the HA recommended awarding the contract to a Yugoslav contractor as the lowest evaluated
bidder. IDA, on the basis of the information provided in the evaluation report, gave its "no
objection" to the award of the contract as recommended.
13.   The other bidders complained to the Association, however, that IDA guidelines had not
been followed, as the Yugoslav bidder had not provided an acceptable bid bond by the time of bid
opening. After reviewing the complaints, IDA concluded that the Yugoslav contractor's bid was
non-responsive, and requested the Government to award the contract to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. The Borrower advised the Association of its inability to reconsider the award
of the contract, referring to the quality of the other bids and a cabinet decision on the matter. IDA
ultimately withdrew its financing for Section IV (Sana'a-Mafraq) of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road
works in view of its responsibility to assure fair treatment of fully responsive bidders.
14.    After being informed that the Government could secure financing for this section from the
Arab and OPEC Funds, the Association cancelled the related SDR5.7 million and waived the
associated condition of effectiveness that consultants for the supervision and construction of the



4
Sana'a-Hodeidah road works be employed, as the works and their supervision were no longer to
be financed by IDA. Other conditions remained in force and were met by October 6, 1988, when
the Credit was declared effective before the end of the second three-month postponement.
15.    The Sana'a-Hodeidah road works contracts - financed by the Arab and OPEC Funds -
were signed in May 1988. and execution of works began in September 1988. The road works were
seriously affected by the Persian Gulf crisis and later civil disturbances. The contractor abandoned
the works in January 1991 after completing only a small fraction of the project. In December
1991 the Highway Authority - renamed the General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB)
- acting under Clause 63 of the Contract took possession of the contractor's equipment and
facilities, and completed the works using force account. During their implementation the scope of
the works and the number of kilometers rehabilitated were somewhat reduced to accommodate
changed circumstances and contain costs. By January 1995 some 80 to 90 percent of the works
were completed, but substantial amounts of road furniture, markings and drainage works still
remained to be finished.
Redluction of Project Scope
16.   Dropping the Sana'a-Hodeidah road works substantially reduced the scope of the project.
Project implementation, therefore, focused primarily on:
(a)   rehabilitating flood damaged road sections (Ibb-Jibla and Marib-Sana'a roads) and
rebuilding the Harad bridge;
(b)   technical assistance for: (i) the domestic construction industry; (ii) engineering
studies for four roads: Kita-Assada (30 Km), Madina-Aldalid (150 Kin), Hodeidah-
Salif (56 Kin) and Hajja-Kushum (63 Km); and (iii) studies of coastal siltation/soil
erosion and road safety, and
(c)   procurement of equipment for maintenance.
17.   The rehabilitation works were started in late 1989, and contracts for construction materials
and equipment for maintenance were awarded in April 1990. By early 1991, with deliveries
nearly complete, an 18-month delay had been reduced to about six months. Work on the roads and
bridge progressed satisfactorily after the Gulf crisis, but a second contractor abandoned this job
and GCRB finished sections of the Marib-Sana'a road using force account. Overall, rehabilitation
of the flood-damaged road sections and equipment procurement were satisfactory.
The Harad Bridge
18.   The Harad Bridge is on the Hodeidah-Jizan road close to the Saudi border. The original
bridge and the main road and other bridges on it were financed by the Saudi Government on a
grant basis and completed in 1981. Shortly after opening to traffic the bridge showed signs of
distress caused by a combination of several factors. Severe cracking developed on the underside
of the bridge deck, possibly due to damage to the concrete caused by inadequate curing before



5
removing its framework and scaffolding. This in combination with high axle loads and the low
design loading standards used in the design caused the bridge deck to collapse shortly after the
road was opened to traffic. Its loss meant that cross-border traffic had to make a lengthy detour.
19.   Although the bridge was not damaged by floods, IDA agreed to finance the reconstruction
of the bridge and related works because of its importance to cross-border trade. GCRB awarded
the design and supervision contract in late 1989. The design was approved by IDA early in 1991.
and bids for works were announced shortly thereafter (ICB). No contractor showed interest in
taking on the works after two consecutive calls for proposals, possibly because of the Gulf crisis,
the remote location of the project, and because the bridge had been redesigned in a way that
required pre-stressing and pre-casting beams - techniques locally established internationial
contractors lacked experience with. GCRB then invited three pre-selected bidders to prepare
proposals and Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Ltd., of India, was awarded the contract
in April 1992. The delay in the bidding process warranted an extension of the closing date of the
credit to December 31, 1993.
20.   Exceptional flooding, with water levels that would have overtopped the bridge if it had not
been for the fact that the old bridge's superstructure had been removed. This delayed the
contractor in July/August 1992 and again in March 1993. More importantly, the supervision
engineer observed considerable siltation of the river bed in the area of the bridge. The siltation
had been ongoing for many years, apparently, and effectively reduced the opening under the
bridge and its capacity to accommodate high floods. The bridge superstructure as designed would,
therefore, require maintenance work on a permanent basis to remove large quantities of upstream
and downstream silt from the wadi beneath it. In October 1992 the bridge supervision consultant
proposed to GCRB that hydrological studies be undertaken to estimate new flood design levels and
determine the extent and cause of the siltation and remedial measures, such as upstream silt traps,
that could be taken. This would have enabled GCRB to revise the design. In a progress report in
late 1992, the Ministry of Construction indicated that such studies would be undertaken. Bridge
experts assisting the IDA supervision mission in October 1993 recommended reviewing the project
design, but the Ministry and the supervision consultant decided not to delay the contractor's work
for that purpose.
21.   On receiving Government's request to extend the closing date to December 31, 1994, IDA
granted a 5-month extension to allow the contractor to finish work and be paid on the condition
that the Ministry of Construction prepare an action plan to address the design and siltation
problems (including hydrology and morphology studies of the river) to make the bridge resistant
to flash floods and ensure its long-term viability. This action plan was not received, and the
project closed end of May 1994, during the Civil War. The bridge opened for traffic in June
1994. The Government has been informed that receipt of a satisfactory action plan to rectify the
problems on the Harad Bridge will be necessary for further IDA assistance in the road sub-sector.
Technical Assistance
22.   The contracts for the road feasibility studies were awarded by end-1989 to consultants from
both Part I and Part II countries (with one joint-venture with a local firm). The assistance was



6
delivered in a relatively straightforward fashion and no major problems were encountered. The
studies were completed by end-1990.
23.   The coastal siltation/soil erosion study and the road safety study were somewhat delayed,
and the road safety study was only completed in draft form due to the civil war. The coastal
siltation/soil erosion study surveyed major road sections to identify erosion containment works.
It identified main issues regarding coastal soil erosion impact on roads. An example of this was
the protection work done for Al-Katib Road in Hodeidah. The work started in December 1990
and was completed by September 1991 - rubble stone armor was provided to a total of 3,060 m
of the double lane asphalt road serving as a second line of protection to the Hodeidah Port. The
study had good impact - works taking these experience into account were then included in the
second phase of the study. New components, such as for fishing ports were also developed.
24.   The road safety study identified safety measures, requisite road furniture (equipment and
civil works), highway marking materials and regular maintenance equipment and implementation
assistance. These were provided under the project as recommended by the study for key sections
of the road network.
25.   Technical assistance for the domestic construction industry also was mobilized after
considerable delay. As appraised, three experts were to be hired for three years by the Highway
Authority to guide domestic contractors in modern management techniques and practices. The team
leader was hired only in August 1989 and began concentrating on the building construction and
road sub-sectors. After two years, working closely with Yemeni counterparts and domestic
construction contractors, the team developed manuals and provided training to contractors. The
impact of this technical assistance was not immediately apparent, as construction entered a long
slack period reflecting the deep recession in Yemen. As the construction industry picked up again
in 1993, however, the effectiveness of the training became apparent, and it is estimated that
domestic contractors are now carrying out more than half of all road construction-related works.
However, as seen under prior projects (Credits 1617-YDR and 1413-YAR) development of
private-sector capabilities is being threatened by severe inflation and a lack of price escalation
clauses in local construction contracts. The Government, therefore, needs to allow for price
adjustment when budgeting civil works contracts. It also needs to develop the indices and bases
to implement price adjustment clauses. Also, the Government needs to consider contracting out
more road works to local contractors as a sector policy.
Procurement of Maintenance Equipment
26.   When increased levels of financing from the Arab and OPEC Funds were identified, it was
agreed that approximately US$2.9 million worth of equipment would be procured from IDA funds.
The equipment list was agreed at negotiations, and the HA soon after effectiveness prepared
bidding documents. No major delay affected the procurement and the Borrower awarded the
contracts during April-May 1990. The proceeds of the Credit were reallocated on August 30, 1990
(see Appendix I) to increase the amount allocated for goods and equipment as proposed by the
Borrower. By 1992 most of the tendered equipment was procured and delivered utilizing the total
estimated allocation of approximately SDR 3.3 million (equivalent of US$4.5 million)



7
Project Sustainability
27.   The main issues regarding project sustainability apart from normal deterioration in Sana'a-
Hodeidah road conditions if regular maintenance is not forthcoming, concern the Harad Bridge.
Government has to closely monitor siltation levels affecting the bridge opening. In addition there
is concern about the capacity of the bridge superstructure to withstand horizontal water forces if
overtopped by a flash flood. The reasons for the changed hydrological regime in the area are
unclear, but are probably related to upstream diversionary structures built to irrigate farmland
along the river. The Government needs to take concerted actions - combining road maintenance,
studies, and silt excavation - to alleviate these risks.
28.   As regards efforts to keep the local contracting industry capable of meeting the increasing
standards demanded by an expanding network, macroeconomic reforms now under way should
alleviate the inflationary situation. The envisaged introduction of price adjustment clauses (see para
25) would help reduce financial risk for contractors and establish sounder relations between them
and contracting agencies.
Association Performance
29.   IDA accommodated the Borrower's requirements very flexibly from project conception
through its completion. It reduced project scope to exclude the Taiz road links once other
financing was identified, then deferred preparation to enable the fast-track delivery of the Marib-
Safir Road Project (Credit 1726-YAR). Bidding problems that might have seriously delayed the
project were overcome by arranging further co-financing. And very late in the project preparation
cycle IDA changed project design to include equipment, last-minute flood damage and key network
constraints such as the Harad Bridge. In terms of the project, during implementation, the closing
dates were extended three times to enable works, interrupted by regional and civil strife, to be
completed, particularly on the Harad Bridge.
30.   The project objective of improving fuel pricing and vehicle taxation to ensure more
appropriate cost recovery from truck users for the wear and tear their vehicles cause the network,
and protecting infrastructure by improving fund allocation and management procedures were not
achieved. Lack of progress in these areas were partly due to the negative effects of the unification
process and external events, such as the Gulf War, on the Government's continuity and
commitment to reform.
31.   The Association generally supervised the project well but more frequent supervision of the
Harad Bridge re-construction would have been beneficial. After the exceptional flood in August
1992 that was higher than the old bridge's superstructure, and in which the contractor suffered a
considerable delay due to damage to the bridge abutments, the supervision consultant proposed a
hydrological study and a review of the bridge design. Files do not indicate this proposal having
being forwarded to the Association, but was brought to the Association's attention by the bridge
supervision consultant on site during the next supervision mission. This delayed IDA's reaction.
In the next supervision mission in September, 1993, a bridge expert and a hydrologist were
included to review the situation and make recommendations. Since the construction work had



8
advanced considerably, and it might have been more costly to put the works on hold to await the
outcome of a design review than to complete the works, the Borrower decided to continue works
and proposed meeting redesign requirements subsequently. The action plan for doing this was not
received - at least partly because Yemen was then on the verge of civil war - as of project
closing. This issue is being followed up as part of the supervision and preparation of other projects
in the sector.
Borrower Performance
32.   The Government's strong commitment to finish the road works overcame the contractor's
abandonment of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road works and the Gulf crisis and civil disturbance-related
problems faced by the Highway Authority. The Borrower and project co-financiers, the Arab and
OPEC Funds, succeeded in completing the works and opening the road to traffic.
33.   As regards the Harad Bridge, bridges are normally designed to accommodate historical
floods. Since the August 1992 flood would have overtopped the bridge if it had still been in place,
it was clear that the basis for the present design had changed and appropriate measures will be
required to correct it and prevent the bridge from being damaged by floods. The Borrower
indicated in a progress report to IDA the same year that it would take action based on the
recommendations of the consultant. While some silt removal works have been undertaken, the
Borrower has not, to date, presented an action plan to address the fundamental hydrological
problems affecting the bridge site.
Assessment of Outcome
34.   Project outcome can be described as mixed. The Sana'a-Hodeidah road rehabilitation was
completed, albeit delayed, and its economic rate of return (averaging 21 % for the four road
sections) was quite acceptable, though below the appraisal estimate of 29%. IDA, however, did
not contribute directly to the implementation of this component since it dropped out of it before
project effectiveness. The rehabilitation of flood-damaged road sections and bridges was
completed, although preventive maintenance is now essential to the Harad Bridge's sustainability.
Technical assistance to strengthen the private contracting industry was delivered, although delayed,
and studies in preparation for future projects went smoothly. TA for institutional and policy
support was not broadly utilized, but the erosion and road safety studies were completed
successfully. The equipment to be procured under the project was delivered as planned,
strengthening the hardware capacity of the HA. No assessment was made of improvements in the
capacity to maintain the equipment.
Economic Evaluation
35.   At appraisal the overall economic rate of return (computed over ten years) for the Sana'a-
Hodeidah road was estimated at about 29%. The ERRs for sections I, II, III and IV were
estimated at 34%, 27%, 31 % and 27%. Although, not as high, a similar estimation gives ex-post
ERRs averaging about 21 %. These lower ERRs are due to prolonged implementation of the road
works and higher construction costs. Because GCRB executed the contract after the original



9
contractor abandoned the project, and because the original contract rates were used in calculating
costs, GCRB managed to contain total project costs, in part by reducing the length of road
rehabilitated. Traffic volumes were also considerably lower than expected because of the recession
and, later, the civil war, reducing net road-user benefits.
Future Operation
36.    The major issue facing the future operation of the works constructed under this project
is proper maintenance. Although this project was designed to establish the permanent financing
mechanisms needed to underpin an adequate national road maintenance program, these were not
implemented (see para 38). The Government has, however, agreed to establish a Road
Maintenance Fund financed by a surcharge on fuel and annual vehicle fees for heavy vehicles to
address sector financing needs. It is expected that IDA will support this endeavor in a forthcoming
lending operation.
37.   At IDA's urging, the GCRB has undertaken excavation of the wadi beneath the Harad
bridge, though no formal action plan has yet been presented to the Association. IDA has also
prepared, for government review and comment, draft terms of reference for studies of the siltation
problem.
Key Lessons Learned
38.    One key lesson taken from this project - and put into practice as it evolved - is the need
to assess early on potential Borrower problems with procurement and other Bank/IDA procedures
and provide close supervision when difficulties are anticipated. Thus, the Association monitored
the procurement process for the rehabilitation of the Ibb-Jibla and Marib-Sana'a roads and the
Harad bridge much more closely, and is continuing this on-site supervision in the ongoing Multi-
Mode Transport and upcoming Transport Rehabilitation Projects.
39.   Another lesson of the Project is that complex institutional changes are often not carried out
successfully unless the Borrower is strongly committed to them and there is an appropriate
constituency supporting their implementation. This can often be accomplished by making
institutional change the fulcrum on which a project rests and testing government commitment
through the requesting of appropriate up-front actions.
40.    On the technical side, the experience with the Harad bridge points out the importance of
frequent on-site supervision and taking early action if the assumptions underlying design standards
need to be changed to take account of changed circumstances.



10
Republic of Yemen
Sana'a Hodeidah Road Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1848-YAR
Implementation Completion Report
Part 1I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Sununary of Assessments
A. Achievements of obiectives  Substantial   Partial   Negligible  Not applicable
Macro policies                   m        r-i       r                '-
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                r-  {             m
LIZ
Institutional development        m    l             ra
Physical objectives             r,1          J        L r---
Poverty reduction        , ,
Gender issues                    m           m      m
Other social Objectives                   r-.
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                  r---,     r - 7 r
LJ   LU         I~~~~I II
Private sector development                            m               m
Other (specify)                  m          m ,                      r
LJ        LJ      L Jl



11
Table 1 (continued): Summary of Assessments
B. Project sustainability      Likely                 Unlikely       Uncertain
Highlv
C. IDA Performance             Satisfactory           Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance  
Appraisal                       -                                        m r,
Supervision
LWI                     F                 I
Highly
D. Borrower Performance        Satisfactory           Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                                             m ,
Implementation
Covenant compliance            m ,                                      v
LW
Operation (if applicable)         ,                                    r
Highlv                                        Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
I     I                                            m I  I  I -
LW   ~    WJ               LW                 LW



12
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title                 Purpose               Approval         Status
First Highway        Development of road system        1970            Closed
Credit 240-YDR       around Aden and strengthen road
institutions.
Engineering          Provide technical Assistance,     1970            Closed
Credit 512-YDR       maintenance and workshop
equipment, spare parts and
engineering and feasibility studies.
Second Highway       Creation of a construction unit for    1984       Closed
Project              road works, construct a road to an
Credit 560-YDR       agricultural area (Wadi
Hadramout) and continued
technical assistance to road
adrninistration.
Third Highway        Technical assistance to prepare   1984            Closed
Project              proposed Fourth Highway
Credit 1144-YDR      Project, utilize foreign
consultants, use ICU to construct
Naqabah-Nisab road.
Road Flood           Implement road construction       1984            Closed
Reconstruction       program of major damages caused
Project,             by heavy floods of 1982 and
Credit 1295-YDR      1983. Rehabilitation of road
maintenance centers and provide
Transport Sector Study.
Aden Port           Rehabilitation of Aden Port and    1984            Closed
Rehabilitation       ship servicing.
Credit 584-YDR
Fourth Highway      Construct Wasit-Beihan road,       1985            Closed
Project             maintenance and training
Credit 1617-YDR     program, and studies.



13
Table 2 (continied): Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title                 Purpose               Approval         Status
First Highway        Establishment of Highway          1972            Closed
Credit 0315-YAR      Authority (HA); feasibility and
engineering studies; construction
of Taiz-Tuba road; supply of road
equipment.
Second Highway       Technical assistance to HA;       1975            Closed
Project              construction of Taiz-Al Mafraq
Credit 0558-YAR      road.
Third Highway       Implementation of a 3-year         1978            Closed
Project              national highway maintenance
Credit 0794-YAR      program; preparation of a national
Highway Master Plan; recruitment
of expatriate engineers and
managers; staff training.
Fourth Highway       Asphalt overlay and flood         1982            Closed
Project              protection for the Taiz-Al Mafraq
Credit 1267-YAR      road; organizational and policy
studies, and other technical
assistance, to define the future of
the Department of Transport.
Fifth Highway        Construction of Ibb-Udayn road    1983            Closed
Project              to paved standard; continuation of
Credit 1413-YAR      TA under Highway III
Marib Safir Road     Completion to paved standard of a    1986         Closed
Project              new road from Marib to Safir
Credit 1726-YAR      (62.5 km) and supervision of
construction by consultants.
Multi-Mode           Civil works and construction      1990            Under
Transport Project    supervision for the Harad-Huth                   implementation
Credit 2177-YEM      road; TA to the GCRB; strategic
development studies for the
CAMA, the GCYP and GCMA;
training and equipment.



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
l                       Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification                                            3/84                 3/84
Preparation                                               7/84                 7/84
Pre-appraisal                                             11/84                11/84 -9/86
Appraisal / Post-appraisal                                11/84 / n.a.         11//86 / 7/87
Negotiations                                             4/87                  6/87
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)              n.a.                  n.a.
Board Presentation                                        9/87                 10/87
Signing                                                   11/87                11/87
Effectiveness                                             1/88                 10/88
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                            n.a.
Midterm Review (if applicable)                                                   n.a.
Second (and third) Tranche Release (if applicable)                               n.a.
Project Completion                                        12/31/90             6/30/94
Credit Closing                                            12/31/91             5/31/94
LThe preparation of the Marib Safir Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1726-YAR) was advanced during this period.



15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR millions )
As at end year
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92              FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal estimate               1.9       4.9       11.5      13.6      14.0
Revised estimate                 0.0       0.7         5.8       7.8       8.3
Actual (US $) 2                  0.0       0.4         1.7       5.4       6.8      7.3       7.6       9.2
(SDRs)                 0.0       0.3         1.3      3.9       5.0       5.3       5.5       6.6
Actual as % of first revised
estimate                          0          4        22       50         60         64       66        80
Date of final disbursement                                                                              2/27/95
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key project monitoring indicators were outlined in Annex 16 of the Staff Appraisal Report.
However, piogress reporting for the Sana'a-Hodeidah road rehabilitation and supervision contracts was not
expected to adhere to these indicators because IDA financing was cancelled for road works. Progress
monitoring for TA and studies was less intensive and supervision was carried out without a regular update of
indicators.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
See Above.
Revised disbursement schedule for SDR 8.3 million following cancellation of SDR 5.7 million (US$7.3 million equivalent) and credit
effectiveness in October 1988.
2Cumulative amounts represent historical US$ equivalents.



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Impact
Purpose as defined                               of
Study                    at appraisal / redefined  Status                Study
Road Engineering and Feasibility Studies
Kita-Assada (30 Km)        As needed for the      All engineering     Highway sector pro-
Madina-Aldalid (150 Km)    preparation of future  feasibility studies  gram preparation fur-
Ras Katnib-Salif (60 Km)  projects.               completed by        thered.
Hajja-Kushum (63 Kni)                             12/90.
Special Studies
Coastal Erosion/Siltation  Studies continued from    Completed        Road works for erosion
Road Safety                prior Credit 1413-YAR                       identified earlier and
siltation at Mokka port
and Hodeidah-AI Katib
Road completed.



17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                 Latest Estimate
(US$M)                           (US$M)
Item                  Local     Foreign                    Local  Foreign
Costs       Costs         Total      Costs   Costs       Total
I.  Road Works
(a) Sana'a-Hodeidah Road:           9.2        31.0        40.2        23.3      34.9      58.2
Hodeidah-Ma'abar                1.6          5.4       07.0                            10.2
Ma'abar-Mawsanah                2.7          8.8        11.5                           16.6
Mawsanah-Mafhaq                 2.5          8.7        11.2                           16.2
Mafhaq-Sana'a                   2.4          8.1       10.5                            15.2
(b) Flood damaged road
sections and bridges            1.1          3.4         4.5       0.9        3.8      4.7
Sana'a-Marib                    0.4          1.4         1.8
Taiz-AI Mafraq                  0.1          0.2         0.3
Harad Bridge                    0.6          1.8         2.4
II. Technical Assistance            0.6          2.7         3.3                  0.9       0.9
(a) Construction supervision        0.4          1.5         1.9
(b) Dom. Constr. Industry           0.2          0.8         1.0
(c) Studies                         -            0.4         0.4
11I. Maintenance Equipment          -            2.9         2.9        -         4.5      4.5
TOTAL1I                         13. 1        43.9        57.0       24.2      44.1      68.3
Ilncluding contingencies.



18
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Million equivalent)
Total                                         Total
Item                  Cost            Appraisal Estimate            Cost       Actual/Latest estimate
IDA  AF OPEC  GOVT                            IDA AF OPEC GOVT
I.  Road Works
(a) Sana'a-Hodeidah Road           45.2       9.2    23.2  4.4        8.4        58.2      -     39.0  7.6    11.6
Hodeidah-Ma'abar                7.9               2.0  4.4        1.5
Ma'abar-Mawsanah               12.9              10.0            2.9
Mawsanah-Mafhaq                12.6              11.2             1.4
Mafhaq-Sana'a                  11.8      9.2                     2.6
(b) Flood Damaged Road
Sections and Bridges:          5.2       4.0                      1.2        4.7       3.8                  0.9
Sana'a-Marib                   2.1       1.6                      0.5                                       n.a.
Taiz-Al Mafraq                 0.3       0.2                     0.1                                        n.a.
Harad Bridge                   2.8       2.2                     0.6                                       n.a.
II. Technical Assistance            3.7       1.9    0.8              1.0         0.9       0.9                 n.a.
(a) Constr. Supervision             2.1       0.7     0.8             0.6
(b) Dom. Constr.Industry            1.2       0.8                     0.4
(c)  Studies                        4.4       0.4
III. Maint. Equipment               2.9       2.9                                 4.5       4.5                 n.a.
TOTAL                              57.0      18.0   24.0        4.4    10.6      68.3       9.2  39.0  7.6    12.5
Estimates based on Arab Fund financing 60 percent foreign and 7 percent local costs, OPEC Fund financing 13 percent local costs of Sana'a-
Hodeidah road, and on Schedule I of the Credit Agreement as applied to overall actual disbursement figures.



19
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
Actual Financial and Economic Unit Costs
Flnancial Coasts      Taxes &    Eccnomic CDob
Subsidies
US S      Adjustnent             us s
Factor
Rcad User Unit Costs
New Vehicle: Car                                         17,500            0.70            12250
New Vehicle: Pickup                                      25.700            0.70            18,000
New Vehicle:-Bus                                         90,000            0.80            72,000
New Vehicle: 2 Axle                                      70.000            0.80            58.000
New Vehicle: 3 Axde                                     100.000            0.80            a0.0oo
New Tire: Car                                               50             0.85               43
New Tlre: PIckup                                            80             0.87               70
Now Tire: Bus                                              150             0.87              131
Now Tire: 2 Axle                                           290             0.87              252
Now Tire: 3 Axle                                           450             0.87              392
Maint Labor Car (hr)                                       3.00            0.87              2.40
Maint Labor Pickup (hr                                     4.00            0.85             3.40
Maint Labor: Bus (hr)                                      5.00            0.87              4.S
Maint Labor 2 Axle (hr)                                    5.00            0.87             4.35
MainL Labor. 3 Axle (hr)                                   5.00            0.87             435
Crew rime: Car (hr)                                        2.50            0.87              2.18
Crew Time: Pickup (hr)                                     4.50            0.83             3.75
Crew Time: Bus (hr)                                       10.00            0.84              8.40
Crew Tune: 2 Axle (hr)                                     7.50            0.87              8.50
Crew Tirme:3 Axle (hr)                                     7.50            0.87              850
Gas ()                                                     0.13            3.75              0.50
Dlesel (1)                                                 0.07            4.55              0.30
Lubricants (I)                                             1.11            0.90              1.00
Road Agency Unit Costs
Patching (m2)                                              3.75            0.92             '3.43
Reisdallng (m2)                                            0.90            0.91              0.82
Ovelay (m2)                                                5.25            0.91              4.80
outieno (m2)                                              1.500             0.93          13S5.00
Scdon l: Hcdeldah-Mabr- 80.7km (rnIIon)                   10.15            0.93              9.44
Section II: Maabar-Mawananah - 54.3km (mASon)             10.63            0.93             15.48
Secdon III: Mawsnnaih-Malhaq -47.0km (millIan)            18.23            0.93             15.09
Section V: Mafhaq-ana.a - 57.4km (mMlon)                  16.23            0.93             14.18



20
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits
Forecast and Actual Traffic Volumes
TrafMc Data from thc SAR
Traffic
Counts      Forccast      Cou=u
Dist        1 989         2003         1994
km           ADT           ADT         ADT
Hod.idahMaaia            60.7        7723         14303        4264
Hodeldah-kml6          1t.0       11513         21322
km 1a- Maibmr           44.7       5637         11791
Masbar-MawaanuiLh        44.3        2815         5205          2502
Mawsamah-Mafhaq          47.0        2815         5205          2502
Maflhtq-Sas              57.4        2815         5205          2502
Table 9C: Economic Costs and Benefits
Traffic Data by Vehicle Tvye
Avemrag Daily Traffic (A0T)
Year
Ca  Pickup  Bus   2/AxI  3 Ad  4 Axle  S Axb  Total
HodeldAaabar              1994  2310    1012    0      758     99     52      53  4284
Maabar.Mawaanaah          1994  1114     595    0      284   205    113    191  2502
Mawsadah.Malhaq           1994  1114    595    0       284   205    113    191  2502
MafhaqSanaa               1994  1114    595    0       284    205    113    191  2502



21
Table 9D: Economic Costs and Benefits
HDM Estimated Unit Vehicle O(eratin Costs
Road              VOC per vah-km ($)
Roughnst     -
(IRI)         Car Pickup    Bus   Truck   Truck
2/6    3/10
3.9   1   .1as   0.263   0.387   0.474   0.790
4.0      0.156   0.265   0.388   0.481   0.800
4.1      0.187   0.267   0.389   0.485   0.804
4.2   1   0.188   0.268   0.390   0.488   0.809
4.3   1   0.189   0.270   0.391   0.492   0.813
4.4      0.189   0,271   0.391   0.495   0.817
4.6      0.190   0.272   0.292   0.499   0.822
4.7      0.191   0.273   0.393   0.502   0.826
4.8      0.192   0.274   0.394   0.505   0.830
4.9   f   0.193   0.276   0.395   0.509   0.835
5.0       0.194   0.277   0.395   0.512   0.840
5.1       0.195   0.279   0.398   0.516   0.844
5.2   !   0.196   0.280   0.397   0520   0.849
5.4   1   0.197   0.282   0.398   0.524   0.854
55 1   0.198   0.283   0.399   0.527   0.859
5.6      0.199   0.285   0.400   0.532   0.864
5.7      0.200   0.287   0.401   0.536   0.869
17.8   1   0.411   0.591   0.620   1.019   1.462



22
Table 9E: Econoniic Costs and Benefits
Section I: Hodeidah Ma'abar
14Dm Manager - Project Suma-ry
RuLn Iame: YEMEN: SAMAM-HCOE?OAH RCAO PC2
Run Date: 22/02/95
Road mane: Section I : Hode!cah-Naabar
toad Length: 60.7 km
Currency: MILtfon US DOLLARS
WITHCUT PROJECT CASE                         YITH PROJECT CASE                    ECONCMIC COPARtISON
Rehabilftatlon In 1998                       RehabiLitation In 1993
ECOCU41C ECONWCIIC ECOCNOIC                 ECONCOIC ECNCHCIC ECORCMrC  DECREASE DECREASE ECOUCIIC
YEAR    -ADT OPER  IRI  AGENCY       USER   TOTAL     AOT OPER  IRI  AGENCY       USER    TOTAL    AGENCY    USER       NET
COSTS   COSTS   COSTS                       COSTS    COSTS    COSTS       COST5   C$TS BENEFITS
1983   4284        5.3     0.09    27.37   27.46    4284        5.3     1.97    27.37    29.34       -1.89    0.00   -1.89
1989   4284        5.6     0.09    27.80   27.89    4284        5.6      1.97    27.80    29.77      -1.89    0.00    -1.89
1990    42z4       5.9     0.09    28.24   28.33    4284        3.9      1.98    28.24    30.22      -1.89    0.00    -1.89
1991    4284       6.2     0.09    28.72   28.81    4284        6.2     1.98    28.72    30.69       -1.89    0.00   -1.89
1992    428        6.6     0.09    29.21    29.30    4284       6.6     1.98    29.21    31.19       -1.89    0.00    -1.39
1993    4284       6.9     0.09    29.72   29.81    4234 CONS 3.2       0.09    25.16    25.24        0.01    4.56    4.57
1994    4284       7.2     0.10    30.23   30.33    4284        3.3     0.09    25.31    25.40        0.01    4.92    4.93
1995    4412       7.5     0.10    31.69   31.79    4412        3.4     0.09    26.18    2f r         0.01    5.31    .5-2
1996   4544        7.8     0.10    33.24   33.33    4544        3.5     0.09    27.08    27.17        0.01    6.13     6.16
1997   4681        8.2     9.52    34.89   44.41    4681        3.7     0.09    28.02    28.11        9.44    6.86    16.30
1i98   4a21 CONS 3.2       0.09    28.32   28.40    4121        3.8     0.09    29.01    29.10        0.00   -0.70    -0.70
1999    4966       3.3     0.09   29.35   29.43    4966         3.9     0.09    30.05    30.14        0.00   -0.71   -0.71
2000    5115       3.4     0.09    30.36   30.45    3115        4.1     0.09    31.17    31.25        0.00   -0.80   -O.80
2001    5268       3.6     0.09    31.42   31.50    5268        4.3     0.09    32.35    32."4        0.00   -0.94   -0.94
2002   5426        3.7     0.09    32.52   32.60    5426        4.5     0.09    33.63    33.71        0.00   -1.11   -1.1t
2003    5589       3.8     0.09    33.67   33.76    5589        4.5     0.09    35.08    35.17        0.00   -1.41   -1.41
2004    5757       4.0     0.09    34.90   34.98    5757 OVER  3.3      1.98    36.60    38.38       -1.5f9   -1.71   -3.60
2005    5930       4.2     0.09    36.20   36.29    5930        3.4    0.09    35.14    35.22         0.00    1.07    1.07
2006    6107       4.4     0.09    37.60   37.69    6107        3.5     0.09    36.34    36.42        0.00    1.27     1.27
2007    6291       4.6     0.09    39.18   39.27   6291         3.6    *0.86    37.59    36.73        0.95    1.59    2.53
Average            5.3                                          4.3
TotaL (urdiscounted)      11.21   634.61  645.81                        12.10   610.04   622.15      -0.90   24.56   23.67
Total (at  12.0 Z)         4.15   251.98  256.13                        8.54   240.55   249.09       -4.39   11.43    7.04
Project NPV at  12.0 X Discount Rate:   7.04
Project internal Rate of Return (M):  26.7



23
Table 9F: Economic Costs and Benefits
Section H: Ma'abar Mawsanah
HOH Manager - Project Sumary
Run Nlame: TEMEM: SAXILA-HCOEIDAH ROAD PCR
Run Date: 22/0295
Road Name: Sectton It S  Naabar-Rawsarah
Read Length: 54.3 hr
Currency: Millton US DOLLARS
WITNOUT PROJECT CASE                       WITH PROJECT CASE                    ECONOI1C CCKPARISON
RehabILItation In 1996                     RehabILitatIon In 1993
ECONM4IC ECONOMIC ECONOMIC                 ECONOMIC ECNONOIC ECOUO4tC  DECREASE OECREASE ECONOMIC
YEAR   AMT OPER  IRI  AaENCY    USER   TOTAL   AMT UPE2  IRI   ACEICY           USER    TOTAL    AGENCY    USEa      MET
COSTS   COSTS   COSTS                      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS      COSTS   COSTS DREEFITS
1988   2502        6.9     0.08   23.24   23.31    2502       6.9     3.17    23.24    26.40      -3.09    0.00   -3.09
1989   2502        7.4     0.08   23.72   23.80    2502        7.4    3.17    23.72    26.89      -3.09    0.00   -3.09
1990   2502        7.8    0.08   24.24   24.32    2502         7.8    3.17    24.24    27.4:      -3.09    0.00   -3.09
1991   2502        8.3     0.08   24.81   24.89   2502        8.3    3.17    24.81    27."        -3.09    0.00   -3.09
1992   2502        8.8     0.08   25.42   25.50    2502        8.8    3.17    25.42    28.59      -3.09    0.00   -3.09
1993   2502        9.3     0.08   26.05   26.13    2502 COgS 3.2      0.08    20.13    20.21       0.01    5.92    5.92
1994   2502        9.8     0.08   26.70   26.78    2502       3.3     0.08    20.25    20.33       0.01    6.45    6.46
1995   2577       10.3   15.54   28.18   43.72    2577        3.4     0.08    20.95    21.02      15.46    7.24   22.70
1996   2634 CONS  3.2      0.08   21.36   21.43    2654       3.6    0.08    21.67    21.75        0.00   -0.31   -0.31
1997   2734       3.3      0.08   22.13   22.21    2734       3.7    0.08    22.43    22.51        0.00   -0.30   -0.30
1998   2816       3.4      0.08   22.89   22.97    2816       3.9    0.08    23.23    23.31        0.00   -0.34   -0.34
1999   2900       3.6      0.08    23.69   23.77   2900       4.0    0.08    24.09    24.16        0.00   -0.40   -0.40
2000   2987        3.7     0.08   24.53   24.60    2987        4.3     0.08    25.00    25.07      0.00   -0.47   -0.47
2001    3077       3.9     0.08   25.41   25.49    3077        4.5    0.08    25.97    26.05       0.00   -0.36   -0.S6
2002   3169        4.1     0.08   26.35   26.43   3169         4.B     0.08    27.05    27.13      0.00   -0.70   -0.70
2003   3264        4.3     0.08   27.36   27.44    3264 OVER 3.2       1.77    28.zo    29.97     -1.69    -0.83   -2.53
2004   3362        4.6     0.08    28.47   28.55    3362      3.3     0.08    27.23    27.30       0.00    1.24    1.24
2005   3463        4.9     0.08    29.65   29.73    3463      3.4     0.08    28.16    28.23       0.00    1.50    1.50
2006   3567 OVER  3.3      1.77   30.92   32.69   3567        3.6    0.08    29.13    29.20        1.69    1.80    3.49
2007   3674        3.4     0.08   29.83   29.91    3674       3.7   -1.47    30.14    23.67        1.55   -0.31     1.24
Average            5.7                                         4.8
TotaL (undiscounted)      18.70  514.96  533.65                       17.14   495.04   512.17      1.56   19.92   21.48
Total Cat  12.0 X)         7.87  208.36  216.22                       13.26   198.84   212.09     *5.39    9.52    4.13
Project IWPV at  12.0 X Dfscount Rate:  4.13
Project Internal Rate of Return CX):  18.9



24
Table 9G: Economic Costs and Benefits
Section HI: Mawsanah Mafraq
Rog Manager - Project Sum1ary
Run gane: YEMEN: SANA-KOcEIOAH ROAD PCR
Run Date: 22102/95
Road Mia0e SectIon III : Pawsantah-mafhaq
Road Length: 47.0 L-m
Currercy: Mitlfon US DOLLAhS
WITHCUT PROJECT CASE                        WITH PROJECT CASE                   ECONCHIC CCHPARISM
teh,abiltation in 1995                     RehabILitatfon in 1993
ECOhC0IC ECOXQ4ZC ECONCMIC                  ECONCHIC ECONC4IC ECONCHIC  DCC2EASE DECREASE ECONC24IC
YEMA    ADT OPER  ?RI  ACENCY    USER   TOTAL    ADT OPER  IRI  AGENCY          USER   TOTAL    AGNCY    USER        MET
COSTS   COSTS   COSTS                       COSTS    COSTS   COSTS      COS    COSTS 0EXEFITS
198U   2502       8.4     0.07    22."    22.51    2502       8.4      3.08    22.44    25.53     -3.02    0.00   -3.02
1989   2502       8.9     0.07   22.96   23.02    2502        8.9     3.08    22.96    26.04      -3.02    0.00   -3.02
1990   2502       9.4     0.07   23.52   23.59    2502        9.4     3.08    23.52    26.60      -3.02    0.00   -3.02
1991   2502      10.0     0.07   24.12   24.19   2502        10.0     3.09    24.12   27.21       -3.02    0.00   -3.02
1992   2502      10.5    0.07    24.74   24.81    2502       10.5     3.09    24.74    27.82      -3.02    0.00   -3.02
1993   2502      11.0     0.07    25.36   25.43    2502 CONS 3.2      0.07    18.37    18.43       0.01    6.99    6.99
1994   2502      11.4   15.15    25.88   41.03    2502        3.3     0.07    18.47    18.54      15.09    7.41    22.49
1995    2577 CONS 3.2     0.07    18.92   18.99   2577        3.4     0.07    19.10    19.17       0.00   -0.18   -0.18
1996   2654       3.3     0.07    19.60   19.66   2654        3.6     0.07    19.76    19.82       0.00   -0.16   -0.16
1997   2734       3.4     0.07    20.27   20.33   2734        3.7     0.07    20.45    20.51       0.00   -0.18   -0.18
1998   2816       3.6     0.07   20.97   21.03   2816         3.9     0.07    21.17   21.24        0.00   -0.20   -0.20
1999   2900       3.7     0.07   21.70   21.77   2900         4.0     0.07    21.94    22.01       0.00   -0.24   -0.24
2000   2987       3.9     0.07   22.47   22.54   2987         4.3     0.07'   22.76   22.30        0.00   -0.29   -0.29
2001   3077       4.1    0.07   23.30   23.36   3077          4.5     0.07    23.64    23.70       0.00   -0.34   -0.34
2002   3169       4.3     0.07   24.17   24.24   3169         4.8     0.07    24.60    24.67       0.00   -0.43   -0.43
2003   3264       4.5     0.07   25.11   25.18   3264 OVER  3.2        1.53    25.62   27.16      -1.47   -0.51   -1.98
2004   3362       4.8     0.07   26.15   26.22   3362         3.3     0.07    24.84    24.90       0.00    1.32    1.32
2005   3463 OVER  3.3     1.53   27.24   28.77   3463         3.4     0.07    25.68   25.74        1.47    1.57    3.03
2006   3567       3.4     0.07   26.39   26.46   3567         3.6     0.07    26.56    26.62       0.00   -0.17   -0.17
2007   3674       3.5     0.07   27.29   27.35   3674         3.7   -1.44    27.47    26.03        1.51   -0.18    1.33
Average           5.9                                         5.2
TotaL (undiscouited)     17.89   472.58  490.46                       16.37   458.19   474.55      1.52   14.39   15.91
Total (at 12.0 X)         8.42   194.32  Z20.74                      12.83   156.88   199.71      -4..41    7.44    3.03
Project NPV at 12.0 X Discount Rate:  3.03
Project InterrAl Rate of Return (%):  18.2



25
Table 9H: Economic Costs and Benefits
Section IV: Mafraq Sana'a
NOD Manager - Project Surmary
Run Name: YEMEN: SANAA-HOOE1DA ROAD PCR
Run Date: 22/02/95
Road Mame: SectiOn IV I Hafhaq-Sanae
Road Length: 57.4 kim
Currency: MfIlIon US DOLLARS
WITHOUWT PROJECT CASE                        WITH PROJECT CASE                    ECONOMIC COMPARISOC
Rehabititation in 1995                       RehabiLitation In 1993
ECONCMIC ECONOMIC ECONCMIC                   ECONOMIC ECONOMIC ECONCMIC  DECREASE DECREASE ECCUONIC
YEAR    AOT OPER  IRI   AGENCY    USER   TOTAL    ADT OPER  IRI  AGENCY          USER    TOTAL    AGENCY    USER        NET
COSTS    COSTS   COSTS                       COSTS    COSTS    COSTS      COSTS   COSTS BENEFITS
1988   2502        7.4     0.08    21.02   21.10    2502        7.4     2.91    21.02    23.93       -2.83    0.00   -2.83
1989   2502        7.9     0.08    21.56   21.64    2502        7.9     2.91    21.56    24.47      -2.83     0.00    -2.83
1990    2502       8.3     0.08    22.15    22.23    2502       8.3     2.91    22.15    25.06      -2.83    0.00   -2.83
1991   2502        8.8     0.08    22.79   22.88    2502        8.8     2.91    22.79    25.71       -2.83    0.00   -2.83
1992   2502        9.3     0.09    23.47   23.56    2502        9.3     2.91    23.47    26.39       -2.83    0.00   -2.83
1993   2502        9.8     0.09    24.18   24.27    2502 CONS 3.2       0.08    17.25    17.33        0.01    6.93    6.94
1994   2502       10.3    14.23    24.89   39.12    2502        3.3     0.08    17.37    17.45       14.15    7.52   21.67
1995   2577 CONS 3.2       0.08    17.77   17.85    2577        3.4     0.08    17.98    18.06        0.00    0.22    -0.22
1996   2654        3.3     0.08    18.43   18.51   2654         3.6     0.08    18.62    18.70        0.00   -0.19   -0.19
1997   2734        3.4     0.08    19.08    19.16    2734       3.7     0.08    19.30    19.38        0.00   -0.21   -0.21
1998   2816        3.6     0.08    19.76    19.84   2816        3.9     0.08    20.01    20.09        0.00   -0.24   -0.24
1999   2900        3.7     0.08    20.48    20.56    2900       4.0     0.08    20.77    20.85        0.00   -0.29    -0.29
2000   2987        3.9     0.08    21.24   21.32    2987        4.3      0.08    21.59    21.67       0.00   -0.34   -0.34
2001    3077       4.1     0.08    22.06   22.14   3077         4.5     0.08    22.46    22.54        0.00   -0.41    -0.41
2002   3169        4.3     0.08    22.93   23.01    3169        4.8      0.08    23.45    23.53       0.00   -0.51    -0.51
2003   3264        4.5     0.08    23.87   23.96    3264 OVER  3.2       1.87    24.49    26.36      -1.79   -0.61   -2.40
2004   3362        4.8     0.08    24.93   25.01   3362         3.3      0.08    23.35    23.43       0.00    1.58    1.59
2005   3463 OVER  3.3       1.87    26.05   27.92   3463        3.4      0.08    24.16    24.24       1.79     1.88    3.67
2006   3567        3.4     0.08    24.82   24.90   3567         3.5     0.08    25.02    25.10        0.00   -0.20   -0.20
2007   3674        3.5     0.08    25.69   25.77   3674         3.7    -1.34    25.91    24.57        1.42   -0.22    1.20
Average            5.5                                          4.9
Total (undiscounted)      17.57   447.18  464.75                        16.14   432.71   448.85       1.43   14.48   15.90
TotaL (at  12.0 %)         8.11   183.65  191.76                        12.27   176.23   188.50      -4.15    7.41    3.26
Project NPV at  12.0 X Discount Race:   3.26
Project InternaL Rate of Return (X):   19.1



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Covenant   Pr esent   Original        Revised    1 Description of
Section      Type        Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment    Covenant           Comments
Date          Date
2.02(b)    Financial    C         Not Speci-    Not Speci-    Borrower to open     Government opened
fied          fied          & maintain Special   Special Account in
Account in Central    November 1989
Bank on              (credit effectiveness
terms/conditions     10/06/88) becom-
satisfactory to the  ing operational in
Association.         February 1990.
- Audit of Special    Presently the Spe-
Account and State-    cial Account oper-
ment of Expendi-     ated satisfactorily,
tures                except that with-
drawal applications
were not sent on a
regular basis.
Sec. 3.02    Financial   C          Annual        Annual        Road works con-      Complied with.
Budget        Budget       tracts for not less
than Rials 25
million to be awar-
ded annually to
domestic con-
tractors
Sec. 3.03    Financial   NC         Annual        Annual        Borrower to take     Not complied with.
Budget        Budget        action required to   The lack of timely
enable the GCRB      and efficient main-
to increase over     tenance of paved
1987-91 its budget    roads remains an
for routine and     institutional prob-
recurrent mainte-    lem.
nance by 5 %
annually in real
terms.
Sec 4.01     Accounts    C          06/90         03/90         Records/accounts,    Complied with.
(b) (i) (ii)    /audits                                         including special
account to be
audited annually.
and certified copy
of audit report to
be sent Association
no later than 6
months after end of
FY.



27
Table 11: Compliance with Olerational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                  Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance    |
There were no significant lack of compliance with any Operational Manual Statement.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned'                 Revised                 Actual
Stage of Project Cycle               Weeks       US$          Weeks       US$         Weeks       US$
Through appraisal                    N/A                                _ ___           57.8
Appraisal - Board                    N/A                                                18.8    _
Board - Effectiveness                N/A                                                10.5               l
Supervision                          N/A                                                46.2
Completion                           N/A                                                08.0
TOTAL                             N/A         N/A   l                 N/A          141.3    N/A
No estimate of staff resources for preparation and appraisal was planned or revised. The figures under "actual' are indicative, especially for
supervision activities, wherein one mission supervised numerous ongoing transport projects, of which Credit. 1848 was one.



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance         Performance
No:           Days in      Specialized          rating -            rating -
Stage of             Month/       of per-         field       staff skills         Implemen-           development
Project Cycle         Year        sons                        represented          tation status       objectives
1 _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _   __ (1)  (2)
Appraisal            11/86            2            14         HE, EC
Re-appraisal          4/87            2            17         HE, FA                                                   l
Post-appraisal
(flood damage)        7/87            1             7         HE
Supervision  1       11/87            2            14         HE, EC                  -
Supervision  2        3/88            2            10         HE, EC                  2                   2
Supervision  3        9/88            2            18         HE, EC                   2                  2
Supervision  4        3/89            2            11         HE, EC                   2                  2
Supervision  5       10/89            1            14         HE                       2                  1
Supervision  6       12/90            1             8         HE                       2                  1
Supervision  7        6/92            1            15         HE                       2                  2
Supervision  8        6/93            1            16         HE                       2                  2
Supervision  9        9/93            1           21          HE + 4C 2               2                   2
Supervision 10        2/94            1           21          HE, C                    2                  2
'Typically, field supervision was carried out in conjunction with other projects (November, 1991 and late 1992). Thus, neither dates on
terns of reference, nor on back-to-office memos reflect actual time spent on supervising Credit 1848.
2Two contract specialists and two bridge consultants.



29
Appendix I: Amendmnents to Credit Agreement
The following amendments were made to the credit agreement:
1.    Section 2.04 to reflect the system of variable commitment charges affecting all Association credits,
as of May 31, 1988.
"(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge of the principal amount of
the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue : (i) from a date sixty days after the date of this
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the
next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall reasonably
request; and (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section."
2.    Schedule I was amended, vide telex dated August 30, 1990, to reallocate credit proceeds as
follows:
Category             Amount of             Proposed
Cr. Allocated         Allocation
(SDR Equiv.)          in SDR
Civil Works         4,100,000              3,900,000
Goods               2,100,000              3,300,000
Consultants'
Services             1,100,000             1,100,000
Unallocated          1,000,000
Total             8,300,000              8,300,000



30
References
1.    World Bank Office Memorandum, Summary of Negotiations (April 30, 1987).
2.    Telex from Mr. J.P.Hyde Director, Rendel, Palmer and Tritton (consultants to Highway Authority)
to the Minister of Public Works, November 6, 1987.
3.    Office Memorandum from Mr. Edgardo Staffini, Acting Division Chief (EM3IN) to Mr. S. Bhatia,
Acting Projects Adviser, January 19, 1988.
4.    Telex from Dr. M.S. Al-Attar (Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development and Chairman of
Central Planning Organization) to Mr. W.P. Thalwitz Vice-President, EMENA (dated January 6,
1988) and Mr. Thalwitz's response (dated February 8, 1988) copied to Arab and OPEC Funds.
6.    Highway Authority, Strengthening and Upgrading of Sana'a Hodeidah Road Project and Its
Financing Difficulties with IDA, February 1988 (A Note by Eng. A. Al Kurshumi, Minister of
Public Works and Chairman, Highway Authority.)
7.    GCRB, "Protection Works Against Sea Erosion to Al-Katib Road -- Assessment of Completed
Works and Proposal for Phase II" (Document No:H-50.347, MNA Files), July 9, 1992.
8.    GCRB, Letter from ACER-Freeman Fox (supervision consultant), October 25, 1992
9.    Project Completion Report for Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1413-YAR), July 30, 1993, Report
No: 12034.
10.   Project Completion Report for Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1617-YDR), October 11, 1994,
Report No: 13593.
11.   GCRB, Sana'a-Hodeida Road -- Upgrading and Strengthening Project: Monthly Progress Report No:
54, September 1994.
12.   GCRB, Traffic Counts at three locations on Sana'a-Hodeida Road and Harad Bridge, December 12,
1994.
13.   Heggie, Ian G., Management and Financing of Roads -- An Agenda for Reform, World Bank
Technical Paper Number 275 (Africa Technical Series), March 1995.









IBRD 19909R
i  44-                                                YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
SAUDI ARABI A                                                 SANA'A - HODEIDAH
XDhob,vr                                           ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
TRANSPORT NETWORK
Prolect Components
\II i;  Roc6 with K lometer D,stances tromv  Hodeidah
....  Flood Damaged Road Sections to be Rehablitated
Flood Damaged Bridges to be Rehobilitoted
.                                                 -   v--- T-                         F,rst Through Fo-rth Highwoy Pro ect
iiton<D\.'                  /                 \                                           f                 --    Roads Constr,cted
~~~~~~~Son A v
ti\                                        .                .                       Fifth Highway Prolect ond Mar,b-SSoir Road
f..,               - - -S ~   ~   ~   Paved Roads Under Constr-ction
..\                                                       Other Roods
-    -  Other Roods Under Rehoblhatfion
viva                                                                                -  .   -   Principol Grovel Roods
tAo,d,                                                               - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wdam
WMorde                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Dom
    National Capitols
|   Cites, Towns and Vdilages
.  1   t  r?Ktiai',  ,                          4    Moin Potts
16                                     Abs                       i                                                                Infernational Airports
{   /   .          ff                                              -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundair,es
g n   ,,      }            t ArboC        i                    _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l-,Ifematiioncal Bou,,dar,es
I.A.q.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aio
(Ask      'NK                                           )                                                  -      - -~ - - F-Sati, (Oil Fields)
Z.A.  ~ ~       ~        ~       ~        ~        A.J h.                            MRSDAM
d.                          lilt              I
0       i&du    | st             d       Mathag                                                           .7> 
Al Kn1b1,1,            63 kn          5 o )
Ba           Maw.4_RsanTko <     ,      j           tj0                                       '
4.s Af  ,- Ravar                Sivv                                                S
ons,vi                          Ai AS,    . e        lA Fl.    on 
.'
AAn 
B--- Al  H-0 ~       ~      r        inj$
Sono.kt5 Ai Joiroi           --v$                          6_$is              
t04H0Zb               Si    s%I,.    1ibad,                         9Rodon|t~'~A                                                         t 14
HlKKOO   oe             hvahi b_~--..,InUD    .-AIO  )Bnda
R     b    '
ou .        i.                                     A" .     tlK;2
Al J."ofs0               O   
O - A   Monian   ,           -t    MaKdo ts   H
OBr 5bbv   J,
Al ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0n K..k.hO          J\
Dabab                                                  |                                  KILOMETERS
E T H I O  P I A                                  ./                                                        -    EN                      20 4_0         60      dO      IOJ
f,BfADEN ~                  '0          40          60
1'~                                                                                               MILES
/DJIBOUTI                                                                                                                     __
SEPTEMBER 1987









IfiA;I N (
Report NO:        14839
TYpe: ICR



