Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6678-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A - HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
September 22, 1987
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted disribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not othen se be disclosed without Wodd Bank authoiztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of June, 1987)
Currency Unit                   = Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$ 0.111                       = YR 1.00
U$1.00                          = YR 9.00
US$111,111.11                   = YR 1,000,000
US$1.285                        =SDR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system                         US System
1 Meter (m)                          = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)  '                  = 0.6214 miles (m)
1 Square Kilometer (kM2)             = 0.3861 square miles (sq. miles)
1 Hectare (ha)                       = 2.47 acres
1 Metric Ton (= 1 ton)               = 0.9842 long ton (1g. ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT            - Annual Average Daily Triffic
CAMA            - Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority
CIU             - Construction Industry Unit
CLCCD           - Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative
Development
CPO             - Central Planning Organization
dwt             - deadweight tons
First Plan      - First Five-Year Plan (1977-81)
GDP             - Gross Domestic Product
GSTA            - General Secretariat for Transport Affairs
GTC             - General Transport Corporation
GVW             - Gross Vehicle Weight
HA              - Highway Authority
HMP             - Highway Master Plan
LCCD            - Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MCT             - Ministry of Communications and Transport
MPW             - Ministry of Public Works
MTPW            - Ministry of Transport and Public Works
OPEC            - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PMAC            - Ports and Marine Affairs Corporation
Second Plan     - Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86)
TEU             - Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit
Third Plan      - Third Five Year Plan (1987-91)
v.p.d           - Vehicles per day
VTC             - Vocational Training Center
YAR             - Yemen Arab Republic
YEMENIA         - YAR National Airline
YGTC            - Yemen General Transport Corporation



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC               FOR OFFICIAL USE )NLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............. .................             i
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .................. ......              . . .      1
A.  Background . . . . .  . .............. . . . .*. . ....... .      1
B.  The Transport System .      ................I .......4 .         2
C.  Transport Organization, Planning and Policy .........             3
D.  Previous IDA Projects ...        .........................       9
II.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .......       ...........................       10
A.  The Road Network       .       ....................... +. .      10
B.  Traffic ..               ..................................     ..........  11
C.  Ad.ninistration ..................................... .         12
D.  Planning ..              ..........................................  12
E. Financing .......... .13
F.  Engineering ......... ......... ........                        13
G.  Construction ....... ..... .  ............ #..............      14
H.  Maintenance .................. . .        ..14
I.  Training .    ..........**.   .    ..............................  15
III.  THE PROJECT       .      .....   # ...             ... ....16
A. Settinge t tg....                                                16
B. Project Objectives.                    ..                        16
C. Description......                      .. ..                     17
D.  Engineering .... .. ... ........... .                           19
E. Cost Estimates                    . . .. 19
F. Financinga ng..# .....*.                                         21
G.  Implementation and Monitoring.          .                       22
H. Employment Aspect                 ....25
I. Environment                    .          .... 25
J. Accounting and Auditing               .. ..25
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION        ....................................      25
A.  Approach .........................................o..           25
B.  Results of the Hodeidah-Sana'a Road Improvement
Evaluation  ........................................         26
C.  Flood-Damaged Roads and Bridges              .     .    .       26
D.  Road Maintenance Equipment                 . . .                27
E.  Project Risks    .        ............................. .       27
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................            27
This report was prepared using information from the YAR authorities and based
on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Luis Revuelta
(Engineer) and R.S.P.Bonney (Economist) who visited the YAR in
November/December, 1986 followed by a post-appraisal mission (Mr. Revuelta) in
July/August 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Annexes
1.  Documents in the Project F i l e ............................  30
2.  Existing Main Road Network ................ ......... ......   31
3.  Ports and Airports Traffic ......     ......................  32
4.  Highway Expenditure and Revenues ........ *............      33
5. Estimated Costs, Prices and Consumption of Gasoline
and Diesel Fuel .... .. . .......................... .....   34
6.  Vehicle Taxation Rates ...  ...........................      35
7.  Previous TDA Projects ........................... *. ......  36
8.  Transport Sector Strategy Issues Action and Action ...  38
9.  Vehicle Fleet ........... ................................   39
10. Regulations for the Weights and Overall Dimensions
of Goods Vehicles .......      ..............................    40
11.  Rehabilitation of Flood-Damaged Roads and Bridges .....  41
12.  Draft Terms of Reference for Supervision of Construction.   47
13. Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
to the Domestic Construction Industry ....................  51
i4.  Road Maintenance Equipment Inventory and Procurement List   60
15.  Proposed Implementation Schedule ......................      62
16.  Project Monitoring Indices ........     ...................   63
17.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements        ............#.....  64
18.  Economic Evaluation .................. ... ....  65
Charts
1.  Main Government Agencies Dealing with Transport ..........   71
2.   Highway Authority Organization ............. ....   72
MAP
IBRD 19909R



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA-A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumnmay
Borrower:             Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Beneficiary:          Highway Authority (HA)
Amount:               SDR 14 million (US$18.0 Million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The objectives of the project are to (a) carry out the
timely rehabilitation, strengthening and maintenance of a
priority road to avoid higher reconstruction costs and to
reduce vehicle operating costs; (b) restore the main road
network to satisfactory condition after recent floods;
(c) assist in the development of the domestic road
contracting industry; (d) undertake priority studies and
induce institutional reforms; (e) reform road user
charges, including fuel pricing policies; and (f) improve
road maintenance.
The project would consist of (a) the rehabilitation, and
strengthening of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road, including the
Manakhah Spur road (222 km) which links the capital with
the country's main port; (b) the repair of flood damages
to the Sana'a-Marib, Taiz-Al Mafraq and Hodeidah-Harad
roads; (c) the provision of technical assistance to
advise the domestic construction industry on road works
contracting; (d) technical assistance to undertake
studies in the transport sector; and (e) procurement of
road maintenance equipment. The project would be
implemented in three and one half years by the Highway
Authority.
Benefits and Risks:  The primary project benefits would be (i) the preserva-
tion of the main road link between the capital Sana'a and
main port Hodeidah and the avoidance of higher recon-
struction costs; (ii) the reduction of the progressive
increase in the Sana'a - Hodeidah road maintenance costs;
(iii) the reduction in vehicie operating costs; and (iv)
more efficient road maintenance operations. Similar
benefits would be achieved through the rehabilitation of
the three flood-damaged roads. The reform of road user
pricing policies, the improvement in efficiency of the
domestic contracting industry and the proposed technical
assistance would strengthen the overall development of
the sector. There are no unusual project risks.
Allowance has been made in the project for eventual
delays in the construction component.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
…(US$ million)-
I. Road Works
Sana'a - Hodeidah Road Rehabilitation
Section I (Hodeidah-Ma'abar; 60.7 km)         1.6       5.4        7.0
Section II (Ma'abar-Mawsannah; 54.3 km)    2.7          8.8       11.5
Section III (Mawsannah-Mafhaq; 47.0 km)    2.5          8.7       11.2
Section IV (Mafhaq-Sana'a; 57.4 km)           2.4       8.1       10.5
Sub-total                                9.2      31.0       40.2
Flood-Damaged Roads
Sar.a'a-Marib                                 0.4       1.4        1.8
Taiz-Al Mafraq                                0.1       0.2        0.3
Harab Bridge                                  0.6       1.8        2.4
Sub-total                                1.1       3.4        4.5
II. Technical Assistance
Construction Supervision                      0.4       1.5        1.9
Domestic Construction Industry                0.2       0.8        1.0
Studies                                        -        0.4        0.4
Sub-total                                0.6       2.7        3.3
III. Road Maintenance Equipment                           -        2.9        2.9
Base Cost (June 1987 prices)                       10.9      40.0       50.9
Physical contingencies                              0.5       1.8        2.3
Price contingencies                                 1.7       2.1        3.8
Total Project Cost                      13.1      43.9       57.0k'
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
…US$ millions-------
Government                                 10.6         -         10.6
TDA                                         -          18.0       18.0
Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development                          2.5        21.5       24.0
OPEC Fund                                     .         4.4        4.4
Total                                 13.1        *+3.9      57.0
i/ Includes taxes and duties on local costs of US$0.25 million.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements (US$ Millions)
IDA Fiscal Year          FY88 1/      FY89       FY90        FY91       FY92
Annual                  2.4          3.9        8.5         2.6        0.6
Cumulative              2.4          6.3       14.8        17.4       18.0
Economic Rate of Return:      291
Map: No. IBRD 19909R
1/ Includes an initial deposit of US$1.5 million to a Special Account.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAII ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) with a population of about 9.3 million
occupies an area of about 195,000 km2 of largely mountainous terrain in the
southwest corner of the Arabian peninsula. There are four distinct geographic
regions: the arid coastal plain (the Tihama), the rugged central and southern
highlands rising to about 2,500 m where the bulk of population lives, the
eastern plateau and the Rub al Khali desert. Only about eight percent of the
land is arable, mainly in the central and southern highlands where rainfall is
highest, but also in the wadis of the eastern plateau, the Tihama, and in
pockets of terraced mountain slopes throughout the central highlands. As a
consequence of this setting, both the demand for transport and the cost of
providing transport services are high.
1.02     The modernization of the YAR economy is a particularly recent phenom-
enon. The new republic was proclaimed on September 26, 1962, and this was
followed by almost 8 years of civil disturbances. The first development
program covered the period 1973-76 and was followed by the First and Second
Five Year Plans 1977-81 and 1982-86. At the beginning of the First Five Year
Plan in 1977 there were only 900 km of main paved road and about 800 km of
other main roads, three berths at Hodeidah port and no alongside berths at
Mocha and only rudimentary air services. In contrast to these figures, it is
estimated that the present non-urban main highway network consists of 2,300 km
of paved roads, 1,300 km of unpaved roads and 30,000 km of dry-season
motorable tracks (Annex 2). In the port sector Hodeidah has now six berths,
including a container berth and another container berth under construction;
Mocha has two alongside berths. The national airline YEMENIA now operates a
comprehensive domestic network and a number of international routes. The
achievements in this period are even more remarkable when one realizes that it
was necessary in the meanwhile to start developing a modern administrative and
institutional structure to implement and manage this development program.
1.03     The fast pace of economic development in neighboring oil-rich coun-
tries provided employment opportunities for Yemeni workers and absorbed about
30 percent of the Yemeni work force. The resulting increases in worker remit-
tances fueled an economic boom in YAR, particularly in the transport sector.
Various factors contributed to this upsurge in transport demand: (i) financial
support from the migrant labor force to build transport links to their vil-
lages; (ii) increasing migration of rural people to the cities while main-
taining close ties to their villages; (iii) structural changes in the pattern



and level of consumption requiring much larger imports and distribution; and
(iv) an ambitious development program spurring construction activities in
various sectors on a massive scale. Traffic on all modes grew at unprece-
dented levels during the 1970's, but in the case of road traffic the growth
has recently declined and for ports has levelled off in absolute terms, both
due to a general slowdown in economic activity following the decline in oil
prices. One of the major impacts of the reduction in oil prices is that the
level of foreign financing, especially by Yemen's oil rich neighbours, has
fallen. A further effect has been a fall in workers' remittances. Fiscal
austerity measures will probably be required to be maintained until 1989 and,
thus, greater attention must be paid to proper economic evaluation of major
investment projects as well as to the assessment of associated resource
implications.
1.04     The YAR will soon become an oil exporter.  Although the YAR currently
imports about 1.1 million tonnes p.a. of refined petroleum products to meet
domestic needs, the recent discoveries of oil in commercial quantities indi-
cate that production of crude oil will be at least three times domestic
needs. However, apart from local traffic in the oil field and refinery
region, this development is unlikely to have a significant impact on traffic
flows especially when the oil pipeline, currently under construction, is
completed.
B. The Transport System
1.05     The transport system now consists of about 3,600 km of main and
secondary roads (Annex 2), a m3dern sea port at Hodeidah and secondary ports
at Salif and Mocha, and three international airports. YAR has also made a
good beginning at building up the institutional framework to administer and
maintain the system. However, only the initial building blocks are in place
and more needs to be done to improve the transport infrastructure, particu-
larly the road network, and to build or strengthen the related institutions.
Several of the country's interior regions, even fertile and densely inhabited
areas, still lack adequate road access. 'lovernment policy and planning empha-
size the need to improve access to interior fertile areas, while it continues
to assign priority to the maintenance and rehabilitation of the transport
system including improvement to arterial connections such as the Hodeidah-
Sana'a link - a major component of the proposed project.   Government policy
also places great importance on building up institutions to plan, implement
and manage the transport system.
Highways
1.06     The highway system is discussed in detail in Chapter II.
Ports and Shipping
1.07     Port congestion, with ships waiting for up to three months before
berthing at Hodeidah (which handles about 80% of traffic with the remainder
passing through Mocha and Salif), was a major problem faced by YAR in the late
1970's. As a consequence, ocean freight charges to YAR more than doubled
during this peri'd. Assisted by the Association and other donors, the
Government then took a number of steps to increase capacity. As a result,



-3-
port capacity has not been a significant problem since 1980. Although Mocha
is close to capacity, the completion of ongoing construction of another
container handling facility at Hodeidah should provide adequate capacity up to
the early nineties.
1.08     The Ports of Hodeidah aad Mocha are managed by the Yemen Ports and
Marine Affairs Corporation (PMAC), and Salif by the Yemen Salt Export Corpor-
ation. These organizations are reasonably efficient. During 1985, the three
ports together handled about 3.1 million tons of dry cargo (about 2.2 million
tons in Hodeidah, 0.6 million tons in Mocha and 0.3 million tons in Salif),
and 0.9 million tons of bulk petroleum products. From 1981 to 1984 general
cargo traffic has grown at about 7.0% p.a. However, this traffic has levelled
off in 1985 (para. 1.03). During the same period, container traffic has more
than doubled and reached in 1985 nearly 50,000 TEU.'s or 390,000 tons
(Annex 3). Almost all container traffic has been channeled through Hodeidah
which is expected to remain the main container port for the foreseeable
future. With YAR soon becoming an oil exporter, the flow of petroleum
products through the ports will reverse with crude being exported and only
highly specialized products imported.
1.09     YAR attempted to enter the maritime freight industry and the Govern-
ment established the Yemen Sea Transport Company, a semi-public shipping
company, under a joint venture agreement with the Government of PDRY. How-
ever, the company never operated any vessels, and the venture was recently
abandoned in part because YAR and PDRY do not have sufficient traffic to make
a shipping company profitable.
Civil Aviation
1.10     Since 1972 the YAR has invested substantially in its airport
infrastructure. The airports at Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeidah now provide
facilities for both international and domestic air traffic, while seven
smaller airports serve regional needs. Sana'a's main runway has been extended
to 3,800 m to accommodate wide-bodied aircraft, and a new terminal building
was recently completed. The runways at Taiz and Hodeidah have been extended
to 3,000 m, and a new terminal building at Hodeidah is under construction. In
1985, Sana'a airport handled a total of 10,348 flights (arrivals and
departures), excluding military traffic and, in the same year, about 476,000
passengers moved through the airport, three-quarters of whom were inter-
national passengers. Due in part to the decline in foreign remittances,
passenger traffic has grown only by about 52 p.a. since 1980, and is not
expected to grow significantly in the near future.
1.11     The United Nations, through its International Civil Aviation Organi-
zation and United Nations Development Programme, provides valuable technical
assistance covering a variety of areas to assist YAR's Civil Aviation and
Meteorology Authority (CAMA). This autonomous authority is in charge of civil
aviation matters including airports and meteorological installations.
1.12     The national airline, YEMENIA, is a profitable joint venture of the
Governments of YAR and Saudi Arabia. It operates four Boeing 727-200's and
one Boeing 727-300 primarily in international service, and two Dash DHC-7's in
domestic service. The company has about 1,500 employees with a growing number



- 4 -
of Yemeni staff filling senior positions. In 1985, YEMENIA carried 426,000
passengers which represented a decline of 4% over the previous year, at an
average aircraft load factor of 55%.
C.  Transport Organization. PlanninR_and Policy
Transport Organization
1.13     A number of organizations are involved in transport in YAR.  The
Minister of Public Works is the Chairman of the semi-autonomous Highway
Authority (HA), which is responsible for the technical planning, design,
construction and maintenance of the main road infrastructure system. In
addition, he is the Chairman of the semi-autonomous ports PMAC. The Central
Planning Organization (CPO) is responsible for national economic planning and
coordinating investment decisions, including those in the transport sector.
The Ministry of Communicalions and Transport (MCT) through the General Secre-
tariat for Transport Affairs (GSTA) controls CAMA, YEMENIA and the land trans-
port companies.  The Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCDs) 1,
which are not responsible to any Ministry, build and maintain low-cost rural
roads with their own funds as well as with local Government financing. The
organization of transport sector agencies is given in Chart 1. The Government
recognized, however, that this proliferation of agencies and responsibilities
makes integrated planning and control difficult and this view was supported by
the Association. Consequently Government has decided to combine the transport
function of the Ministries of Public Works and Communications and Transport
into a single Ministry of Transport atnd Public Works (MTPW) to be established
by Presidential Decree in 1987. During negotiations, (Iovernment's intentions
for implementing the creation of the proposed MTPW were ascertained
(para. 5.01).
1.14     As part of the integrated transport organization there is also a need
for an adequately staffed and equipped highway project planning, implemen-
tation and monitoring department within the new ministry. The creation of
such a department could be achieved by expanding the terms of reference and
strengthening the existing Planning and Traffic Department in the Highway
Authority. During negotiations the Government confirmed that MTPW would
prepare by December 31, 1987, terms of reference, staffing proposals, and
equipment needs of the proposed department together with an implementation
program to be discussed with the Association (para. 5.03(a) and Annex 8).
Road Transport Organization
1.15     The Government has established two public-sector road transport
companies: (a) the General Transport Corporation (GTC) which provides
inter-city and in-city bus services, was established in 1982 with 51 percent
of the capital owned by YAR Government and the remainder by private investors;
and (b) the smaller Yemen General Transport Corporation (YGTC), jointly owned
by YAR and PDRY, which operates a fleet of 3 buses and 10 trucks between the
1/ The former name of Local Development Associations (LDAs) changed by Law
No. 12 for 1985.



two countries. The GTC owns a modern fleet of 66 buses, and operates 52
inter-city bus services daily. It plans to start in-city bus services in
Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz, but these are not yet operational.
1.16     Nearly 100% of road freight transport is operated by the private
sector and there is free entry into the industry. The vehicles, ranging from
small pick-ups to large articulated trucks, are either operated on "own
account" in association with the owner's main business or for general freight
operations through the "ferzah" system which is a type of local transport
cartel. The purpose of the ferzah is to regulate the industry in such a way
as to provide general freight vehicle owner operators with suitable loads in
an orderly sequence and thus spread available business through the transport
fleet. This is undertaken through a large number of ferzahs, based in most
towns, the biggest of which is in Hodeidah and controls an estimated 6,000
vehicles. Each ferzah's objectives are to: (i) record vehicles in order of
arrival in the town or commercial centre; (ii) ensure that loads are offered
to vehicles in order of arrival; and (iii) ensure that vehicles do not operate
outside the cartel. The reason for the system's growth and official support
is to preserve a profitable level of operation for the over capacity vehicle
fleet. This is as much a socio-political problem as an economic one.
Although the Government has banned since early 1985, the importation of heavy
freight vehicl-s, the system continues to prevent competition and allows the
maintenance of artificially high freight rates which is damaging to the
economy. The Government recognizes that, in view of the powerful interests
involved, a resolution of the problem will not be easy. Nonetheless, the
Government has expressed its determination, for economic and equitable
reasons, to reform the situation and to correct the misuse of resources. To
this end, the "Review of Structure and Functions of the General Secretariat
for Transport Affairs", completed in January 1987 and financed under the
Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1267-YAR) assessed the impact of the ferzah system
on transport prices and proposed three alternative programs for reducing the
system's effect on the transport industry and economy. The three programs
focus on:
(i)    a free enterprise approach allowing a vehicle to be operated
anywhere and at any tariff the operator chose: this would
require the legal abolition of ferzahs, legislation to outlaw
any form of cartel and vigorous enforcement of the law;
(ii)    The institutionalization of ferzahs by placing the system under
direct Government control with operating regulations and tariffs
fixed by the Government; and
(ii)    a licensing option with Government control of the issue and
renewal of operating licenses either at national or local
level or for particular routes. Once licensed, vehicles could
be operated freely at market determined freight rates.
The Government is currently examining these alternatives. Selection and
implementation of the preferred option will be carried out in consultation
with the Association. Actions to reform the situation are covenanted under



- 6 -
the Fourth Highway Project which provides technical assistance for that design
and implementation.
Trsnsport Planni!Ig
1.17     Transport planning at the technical and commercial level is carried
out predominantly with the assistance of consultants engaged by sub-sectoral
agencies such as the PMAC, HA and CAMA. However, with the development of a
stronger and broader based Planning Department in the MTPW (para. 2.04), the
in-house planning capacity would be increased. Individual sub-sector plans
are coordinated within a macro planning framework by the CPO. Since CPO is
short of experienced staff, consultants are assisting in the preparation of
the Third Plan (1987-91) with experts financed by the Kuwait Fund, the UNDP,
and the Association.
1.18     In late 1986, the CPO undertook a Transport Sector Review which inte-
grated the contributions of the sub-sectors including the recommendations of
the IDA-financed Highway Master Plan of 1986. This Sector Review forms the
basis for transport sector investments in the Third Five-Year Plan (1987-91).
The proposed sector investments have been reviewed by IDA and are considered
satisfactory. During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
that IDA will review on an annual basis the country transport investment and
maintenance program. This review will cover both modal and overall invest-
ment and maintenance plans, policy issues and actions, and will take place
annually in September (para. 5.03(a) and Annex 8).
1.19     A Transport Sector Memorandum (4990-YAR) published in November 1985,
is the basis of our dialogue with the Government. It reviews YAR accomplish-
ments in developing its transport system and focuses on the priority areas for
future work. It emphasizes the need for improving the administration of the
transport system and maintenance/rehabilitation of existing roads. It also
recommends assessing the proper timing for future port expansion to respond to
the increase in traffic expected from the commercialization of oil. Sector
issues and actions to address these are described in Annex 8. IDA and the
Government have agreed that the Sector Memorandum should be updated in 1988.
Transport Policy
1.20     The transport sector's objectives are reflected in the country's
Five-Year Plans. The objectives of the Second Plan (1982-86) were to foster
the productive base of the economy with priorities given to agriculture,
minerals, and manpower development. Transport and communication were
allocated an important supporting role accounting for 22% of proposed public
investments. These objectives. included constructing new main roads,
maintaining the existing network, developing secondary roads to better serve
the country's interior areas, improving port operations and increasing the
financial viability of YEMENIA. The Association reviewed these priorities and
associated implementation strategies. The level of resource allocation to the
transport sector was estimated to be appropriate to the country's needs and
absorptive capacity.
1/ Development Credit Agreement (1267-YAR) - Section 3.06



- 7 -
1.21     Current estimates are that overall the Second Plan will achieve only
about 50S of its investment targets and, whilst not as severe as in other
sectors, this shortfall is also reflected in the 1987-91 transport sector
investment plan (Table 1.1). Failure to achieve targets was primarily the
consequence of a shortage of financial resources.- This was due to a
number of factors among which the most important are the general economic
decline in the region's economic activity associated with the fall in oil
prices, a severe drought problem, a major earthquake in 1983 and a certain
anount of overambition in earlier development programs.
1.22     The Third Plan (1987-91) is still under preparation and available
figures are only provisional. The main objectives will continue to be the
development of productive sectors including the newly discovered oil resources
whilst taking account of economic, financing and implementation capability
constraints. Public investment in the transport sector is expected to
maintain its share of about 222 of the total public investment program and
amount to YR 3500 to YR 4000 million (US$437 to US$500 million). Total expen-
ditures under the Second Plan (1982-86), still not available, are estimated to
amount to about 80X of those foreseen. The Third Plan (1987-91) is about 30Z
smaller than the Second Plan and is close to the current level of capital
expenditure which is considered realistic in relation to domestic and foreign
sources of finance.
Table 1.1:     Transport Sector Investments
1981-1986 and Proposed 1987-1991
(YR million estimated 1985/86 prices)
Second Plan (l982-86)1'    Third Plan (1987-91)
Amount                      Amount
Subsector                  Plan          %               Plan.        %
Main Roads (HA)              2,321       44.0            2,671          72.0
Rural Roads (CLCCD)            189        4.0              105           3.0
Agricultural Roads             490        9.0              250           7.0
Urban Roads Paving             877       17.0              330          9.0
Road Transport                 243        5.0               54           1.0
Sub-total               4,120       79.0           3,410          92.0
Civil Aviation '               455        9.0               54           2.0
YEMENIA-'                      411        8.0               50           1.0
Ports                          216        4.0              203          5.0
5,202     100.0            3,717         100.0
1/   The Second Plan figures were modified to allow for developing economic
constraints.
2/   The decline in the civil aviation sub-sector is due to the completion of
the major development phase.
1/ During the past three years private consumption has decreased by about
13X, public investment by 26X, remittances by 60% and foreign loans by
about 50Z.



1.23     The level of private investment in the transport sector has also
fallen during recent years due primarily to the decline in economic activity
in the Gulf States, as well as to the earlier over investment in parts of the
vehicle fleet and recent Government restrictions on the import of road freight
vehicles (para. 1.16).
Cost Recovery
1.24     Government policy is aimed at recovering the full cost of public
transport services unless it considers that a subsidy is warranted on social
grounds. The revenues of both public road transport corporations, GTC and
YGTC (para. 1.15) cover their operating costs including depreciation. Road
users contribute to the general tax revenue through import duties and excise
taxes on fuel, import duties on vehicles and spares and annual vehicle taxes
and license fees. Conventionally measured road user revenues during 1982-85
exceeded expenditures on road construction and maintenance by more than 100%
(Annex 4). However, the structure and level of road user taxes are such that
in several areas they lead to inequitable results. These are described in the
following paragraphs.
1.25     Following the fall in crude oil prices, gasoline prices are about 70%
higher than economic costs, whilst the retail price of diesel fuel is now
about 10% above economic cost (Annex 5). Despite the fact that under the
present market conditions the retail price of diesel does not require subsidi-
zation and that approximately one third of supplies now come from domestic
resources, which will reduce the average economic cost, further devaluation of
the YR or a rise in oil prices could reverse the situation. Consequently a
pricing strategy and adjustment mechanism should be evolved and put into
effect to ensure that, averaged over a six month perind, retail prices should
be at least equal to economic costs. It is nonetheless recognized that with
the present economic difficulties, the uncertainties of the oil market and the
continuing development of Yemen's own oil resources, the scheduling and design
of price changes requires careful preparation. During negotiations the
Government agreed to complete, by December 31, 1988, in collaboration with the
Central Planning Organization and other concerned agencies, a study of the
mechanism and criteria for the determination of petroleum prices, and discuss
thereupon the findings and recommendations of such study with the Association
(para. 5.03(a) and Annex 8). In the meantime, urgent consideration should be
given to periodically adjusting retail prices of oil products to reflect any
erosion in the foreign exchange value of the Yemeni Rial.
1.26     The current system of licensing vehicles bears little relationship to
the road construction and maintenance related costs occasioned by individual
classes of vehicle. The main damage to the road system, as in other coun-
tries, is caused not by the largest vehicles but by the two axle trucks on
which the axle load is emphasized. Therefore, a vehicle licensing system
which is based on total vehicle size or weight is neither equitable nor dis-
courages the use of the vehicles most likely to cause serious damage. Because
of this, a Study of Road User Charges was carried out under the Third Highway
Project (February 1986) in order to analyse the cost/revenue position and to
make recommendations for: (a) improving the equity of the situation; and (b)
reducing the damaging effect of certain categories of road users. The



- 9 -
study has recommended a change in the annual licensing system which the
Association strongly endorses. The existing and recommended licensing fees
are shown in the following table:
Table 1.2 - Annual Licensing Fees
YR/ton Unladen
ExitiEn                   Recommended                  Weight (ULW)
All freight vehicles
YR 350/ton pay-load               2 axle (ULW > 2 tons)           1875
Tandem (balanced)                915
Tandem (unbalanced)             1785
Articulated   4 axles             710
* Axles within 2 meter centres.
1.27     With an increase in license fee of about 200%, the introduction of
these changes would considerably affect operators of two axle vehicles. It is
therefore proposed that the recommended rates are introduced over a three-year
period. All interested parties should be provided with details of the pro-
posed changes in license fees and should submit their comments to the new MTPW
by March 31, 1988. The MTPW will review with the Association, by
December 31, 1988, the levels of road user charges, and adjust, on the basis
of such review, said charges to such levels as to differentiate among classes
of vehicles on the basis of their axle-load. Other vehicle taxation rates are
given in Annex 6. During negotiations the Government agreed on the study and
implementation of these proposals (para. 5.03(a) and Annex 8).
1.28     PMAC collects various charges from port users which are intended to
cover the cost of port operations. Tariffs were increased in 1977 and again
in 1982, to roughly double their former levels. Port charges which exceed
operating costs are now at the same general level as other R-d Sea ports with
which YAR ports compete.
1.29     Airport user charges are not sufficient to cover current expenditures
especially following the devaluation of the YR. No contribution to the
capital budget can therefore be envisaged. In addition, as airport
infrastructure requires more maintenance and is further expanded, airport
operating costs are also likely to increase during the coming decade. CAMA
recently completed a study of airport user charges and made recommendations as
to their reform which would enable the airports to cover operating expenses,
including depreciation. CAMA's recommendations are currently under review by
the Government.
D. Previous IDA Projects
1.30     Since 1972, IDA has actively assisted YAR to develop its basic
transport system and institutions. The government has successfully



- 10 -
implemented seven projects, financed by $66.0 million equivalent in IDA
credits, and has maintained a constructive dialogue with IDA on sector
policies which have resulted in significant improvements. In highways, HA was
established and strengthened, a vocational training school was established and
successfully operated in Taiz, a road maintenance program was implemented,
axle-loads were limited (Annex 10), accounting was improved, annual audit by
inde- pendent auditors was established, and economic project evaluation was
introduced. Institutional improvement was supported with a review of the GSTA
and the development of proposals to set up a Ministry of Transport and Public
Works. In ports, cargo handling was improved, cost accounting introduced,
tariffs increased to reflect costs, and an engineering department
established. Initial steps were also taken to improve the administration of
other transport modes. The IDA 1985 Transport Sector Memorandum has been
described in para. 1.19. More detailed descriptions of these earlier
projects, explaining the participation of other donors and the assessments of
the audit reports of those projects already completed, carried out by the
Operations and Evaluation Department (OED) of IDA, are contained in Annex 7.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01     In 1962, only one paved inter-urban road existed in the YAR, linking
the Red Sea port of Hodeidah with the capital Sana'a (226 km). Since then,
the YAR has made a major effort to develop its road network. Results have
been impressive, although the density of the network remains low and some
circuitous routes to major population centers still have to be followed.
Table 2.1: Growth of the Main Road Network
Year              Paved Roads              Unpaved Roads              Total
-----Length (km.)--------------------    -
1970                   436                       266                     702
1971                   684                       609                  1,293
1980                 1,472                       798                  2,270
1981                 1,604                       876                  2,480
1982                 1,810                     1,096                  2,906
1983                 1,985                       952                  2,937
1984                 2,048                       974                  3,022
1985                 2,144                     1,104                  3,248
1986                 2,299                     1,317                  3,616



- 11 -
Paved roads in 1986 link Sana'a, the capital, with Hodeidah (the main port and
second largest city), Taiz, and Ibb, and with the networks of Saudi Arabia and
PDRY. The 1,300 km. of unpaved roads serve mainly the most fertile agricul-
tural regions of the country. The HA is responsible for the improvement and
maintenance of this network which is detailed in Annex 2.
2.02     The growth of the local road network has been even more spectacular.
From an estimated 6,500 km. in 1975, the local network has grown to around
30,000 km in 1986. These roads or tracks, mainly built by the LCCDs, are
designed to low standard and are negotiable only by four-wheel drive vehicles,
but, providing that they are the only road connection to remote areas, they
constitute a vital feeder road system to the main network.
B. Traffic
2.03     Accurate information on vehicle ownership in YAR is not readily
available. The only official information concerns the number of new vehicle
registrations in each governorate after 1978 and, therefore, excludes a sub-
stantial number of vehicles which are not registered, but includes vehicles
which are now off the road. The Highway Master Plan (para. 2.09) estimated
that the fleet totaled 236,400 vehicles at the end of 1983, of which 172,100
or 73 percent were registered. Official figures (excluding motorcycles) in
1985 give a fleet of 287,000 vehicles (Annex 9). This implies a fleet of
about 12 cars per 1,000 inhabitants, which compares favorably with other coun-
tries at a similar stage of development.
2.04     There is also a shortage of data for estimating the growth of road
traffic. The estimation of traffic growth based on the consumption of petro-
leum products (Annex 5) is not reliable because an unknown but significant
part of petroleum products come by road from Saudi Arabia, and is not covered
by the official statistics. However, the HA's Planning and Traffic Department
has undertaken an intermittent program of traffic counts since 1976. Data
from stations indicate high rates of traffic growth. During 1976-80, an
increase of 27 percent p.a. reflects the rapid growth of the~ economy and the
structural changes due to additional transport demand and new road
construction. From 1980 to 1984 an increase of 13 percent p.a., rcflects a
slower rate of economic growth due to a reduction of worker remittances, and
also a wider traffic base. Traffic on main roads ranges between 2,000 and
5,000 vehicles per day (v.p.d.) and in many secondary roads may reach as much
as 2,000 v.p.d. Annual average daily traffic (AADT) growth rates are likely
to stabilize around 5 percent in the period 1986-1990 although large local
variations may exist. Since 1985, the Planning and Traffic Department has
been strengthened with new staff and the purchase of additional traffic
counters. A data collection, storage and retrieval system backed up by
suitable hard and software are being financed under OPEC Loan 114P and
training is continuing under the Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1413-YAR).
2.05     The design axle-load was increased from 10 to 13-ton per single axle
in 1980 (Annex 10). Studies financed by IDA under the Third Highway Project
found that this was the load which minimized the total cost of transport,
i.e., the cost of operating the transport fleet plus the cost of



- 12 -
construction/maintenance of the roads. Recent axle-load surveys indicate that
as many as 40 percent of the trucks were overloaded beyond the 13-ton legal
limit, which resulted in considerable road deterioration. However, three
vehicle weighing stations with computerized equipment have been built at
Hodeidah, Mocha and Harad to monitor and control overloading and are now
operating effectively. Axle-load legislation was prepared under the Third
Highway Project, approvel by the Parliament in November 1985 and made
effective in 1986 (Annex 10). The HA is also strengthening about 1,000 km of
paved roads to handle heavier vehicles with the 13-ton single axle load.
These measures are being implemented and are satisfactory.
C. Administration
2.06     The HA was established in 1972 and is a semi-autonomous Government
agency with independent capital, budget, income and salary scales. It is
controlled by a Board of Directors and chaired by the Minister of Public
Works. The HA which employs about 2,100 staff including 40 engineers, is
responsible of the technical planning, design and maintenance of main roads,
which are financed at cost from the Government budget, as well as with road
construction for central Government and local authorities on a contractual
basis. The headquarters in Sana'a provide central services for
administration, planning, construction and design whilst maintenance
operations are regionally based. Details of the HA organization are given in
Chart 2.
2.07     The {A is short of qualified staff.  The Third and Fifth Highway
Projects provide for technical assistance (TA) and training to alleviate this
shortfall (paras. 2.19 to 2.21). The performance of experts and their Yemeni
counterparts was not fully satisfactory in the past because of the high turn-
over of appointees. However, this improved considerably following a recent
increase in salaries and benefits. Since 1984, a group of experts from the
Indian and Pakistan civil services plus several from Sudan and the
Philippines, have filled the 18 positions under the TA component of the Third
and Fifth Highway Projects. The TA program is now proceeding satisfactorily,
and will enable the HA to fulfill most of its tasks in the short term. For
the medium term, an increasing number of counterparts should be able to take
over, although additional TA may still be required at higher managerial levels.
2.08     Administration of the local road network is carried out by the LCCDs
using their own staff and equipment. These services are financed through
contributions from local populations, migrant workers and a i% agricultural
tax. The Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Development (CLCCD)
which is the central organization controlling the LCCD's, maintains technical
staff to provide advice, and also provides the LCCDs with additional equipment
where required. Following the Highway Master Plan recommendations the more
important LCCDs' roads are being upgraded and incorporated in the main
network. Steps are also being taken to improve the coordination between the
HA and the CLCCD and to improve CLCCD's technical capability.
D. Planning
2.09     Since the early seventies, and with the Association's assistance,
road planning has been carried out in a systematic manner. During the



- 13 -
identification of the First Highway Project (Cr. 315-YAR), consultants pre-
pared a road development program for 1972-79 covering about 1,400 km which
formed the basis for expanding the network in the 1970s. Many of the proposed
improvements were included under the Government's Three-Year Development Plan
(1974-76) and the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81). Proposals for the Second
Five-Year Plan (1982-86) were prepared under the Third Highway project
(Cr. 794-YAR). Finally in 1984, still under the Third Highway Project, the HA
appointed consultants to prepare a Highway Master Plan Study covering the
period up to 1996. The final report was submitted in January 1987 and is
currently under review by the Government (Project File, Annex 1). It
establishes investment priorities based on a comprehensive review of regional
activity and detailed traffic forecasts. It also proposes improvements in
aianagement policy, road design standards, maintenance policy, road user
charges, data collection and new axle-load legislation which was recently
enforced (para. 2.05). The study also examines and advises on the role of
LCCDs. Additional studies proposed in the Highway Master Plan have been
included in the Transport Sector Review, prepared by CPO (para. 1.18).
2.10     About 70% of the cost of construction YAR's main road network has
been financed from external sources. Assistance has come from the Federal
Republic of Germany, Iraq, Libya, the People's Republic of China, Saudi
Arabia, the United States, the USSR, the Abu Dhabi Fund, the Arab Fund, and
the Association. External financing is decreasing, in part because of the
decline of the economic activity of the Gulf states.
F. Engineering
2.11     Up to 1980, all engineering designs was prepared by consultants.
However, with the strengthening of the HA's Design Division under the Third
Highway Project and with the exception of some large internationally financed
projects, the HA now carries out all project design with its own staff
resources. As part of this design work the HA also carries out all soil and
material testing in its Central Laboratory in Sana'a and on construction
sites. The laboratories are staffed adequately, and the Central Laboratory
was recently re-equipped, partly with IDA financing.
2.12     The YAR has not yet developed a comprehensive set of highway design
standards and different roads reflect the national standards of the con-
sultants employed to carry out the design. The Highway Master Plan reconmends
uniformity of design through a three tier road network classification based on
the road function and type of terrain and also provides recommendations on
design standards for LCCD's roads. Recommended pavement design standards are
based on the AASHTO system (USA), adjusted to the special conditions of YAR.
Both pro- posals have been discussed and agreed with the Association and are
being considered by the HA for final approval. Thereafter the HA, will
produce with the assistance of its consultants a manual of design standards
which will assure consistency of design for all HA roads in the future.
G. Construction
2.13     The HA is responsible for all main road construction by contracting
or by force account. Most large civil works are carried out by foreign



- 14 -
contractors and although efforts are being made to encourage the domestic
contracting industry (para. 2.14), the HA has been building roads through
force account and acts as a contractor of last resort. The HA's Construction
Division based in Sana'a is well organized and equipped. Its staff is
assisted by expatriate experts and the quality of construction is satis-
factory. The Association financed Taiz-Turba road and Marib-Safir road and
the Saudi Arabia financed Yarim-Qataba road have been or are being built by
force account either because no responsive bids were received or for speedy
execution. Similarly, in the case of the Marib-Safir road the HA has recently
signed a contract with the CPO and supervising consultants will be retained by
CPO. Recently, improved stability in YAR coupled with a slowdown in contrac-
ting activity in the Gulf States has resulted in lower contract prices and the
HA, following IDA's advice, is now reducing its planned activities. Con-
struction of local roads is carried out by LCCDs.
2.14     The domestic construction industry has been the subject of several
studies, i.e. UNDP in July 1981,and SWECO study in January 1982, updated by
the Bank in March 1985. From these studies, the total construction output
including foreign, private and public domestic contractors is estimated at
YR3,500m (US$437m equivalent) of which the private domestic contractors share
is about YR1,400m and the HA about YR320m. There are three large domestic
contractors with a capacity of more than YR50 million (US$8m equivalent) per
year and about 25 contractors with a capacity between YR15-50m per year. With
this group of smaller contractors working at only at 70% of its capacity, the
HA has already taken some steps to increase their employment by subcontracting
to them road structures and short sections of gravelled roads. The results,
however, have been mixed, particularly because of the lack of continuity of
work and the HA's limited experience in issuing or supervising contracts.
Also, the domestic contractors, who have only recently been involved in road
works, require guidance and assistance which is currently not available. The
objective of the assistance to the domestic contracting industry under the
proposed project (para. 3.09) is to systematize and improve the HA's efforts
and capability to develop the industry.
H. Maintenance
2.15     The rapid development of the road network in the 1970s was not
matched by an adequate maintenance capability because of shortage of funds,
equipment and manpower. As a consequence, the road network deteriorated
considerably. Beginning in 1978, under the Third Highway Project, the HA
undertook a road maintenance program to reverse this trend. The program was
based on an inventory of the HA's network needs and an appraisal of the equip-
ment, manpower and budget needed for adequate periodic and routine main-
tenance. The IDA and the OPEC Fund financed maintenance equipment and work-
shop improvements. The program was generally successful but a principal
bottleneck remained the lack of trained personnel to operate the equipment, to
man the newly-equipped workshops, and to supervise and monitor the work of the
maintenance teams. An ongoing successful training program is now largely
overcoming this problem (paras. 2.19-2.21). While, at present, the quality of
routine and periodic maintenance, particularly on the paved roads, is satis-
factory, the aging of the network and the growing traffic will required an
increase in maintenance resources - partice'larly equipment and funds.



- 15 -
2.16     The HA's maintenance equipment is also aging and while some replace-
ments have been procured with Government's own funds, further replacement of
equipment as well as additional equipment are now required. They have been
included under the proposed project. The new equipment will be specifically
employed on routine maintenance of paved roads. Periodic maintenance (i.e.
resealing and overlays) will be undertaken by contract.
2.17     Government gives road maintenance and its funding high priority.  In
1985 the main road network maintenance budget was YR36.0 million (US$5.0
million equivalent or a satisfactory US$1,400 km/year), followed by YR44.0
million (US$6.1 million equivalent or US$1,700 km/year) budgeted and spent in
1986 and by YR60.0 million (US$6.7 million equivalent or US$1,850 km/year)
approved for the 1987 budget. However, the road network is carrying increas-
ing traffic and will require more routine and recurrent maintenance and hence
additional funds. Moreover, all forms of maintenance on secondary and gravel
roads need to be intensified if the system is to perform its function satis-
factorily. The Highway Master Plan recommends that during the 1987-91 period
routine and recurrent maintenance needs will amount to an average of YR 75
million per annum (US$8.3 million). Taking into account the current economic
difficulties, the routine and recurrent maintenance budget should be increased
by 5% per annum in real terms during the course of the 1987-91 Plan to reach
the recommended level near the end of the Plan period. During negotiations,
these arrangements were agreed (para. 5.03b).
2.18     Maintenance is organized under five regional offices (Sana'a,
Hodeidah, Ibb, Taiz and Saadah), each office with its own staff, equipment and
workshop.  Major equipment repairs are carried out at the central workshop in
Sana'a and at the maintenance training center workshop in Taiz. In the case
of some important roads, overlays are financed by foreign lenders and carried
out by foreign contractors. Maintenance of local roads is carried out by
LCCDs.
I. Training
2.19     A major constraint in achieving effective planning and project imple-
mentation has been the pervasive shortage of skilled personnel. Consultants
engaged under the Third Highway Project designed a training program based on
an inventory of existing and required manpower in the HA. A Vocational
Training Center (VTC) at Taiz was then established to carry out these training
activities. The program is now being implemented under the Fifth Highway
Project (Cr. 1413-YAR) with good results.
2.20     The programs provide training for seven specialties required by the
HA and CLCCD: vehicle mechanics, vehicle electricians, plant mechanics, road
supervisors, machinists, welders and plant operators. Under the overall
supervision of a Chief of Training, classes are given by seven expatriate
instructors, each assisted by at least one Yemeni counterpart instructor.
Theoretical training is carried out at the VTC in Taiz. Practical training is
provided through a mobile road training production unit and a mechanical
training production unit.



- 16 -
2.21     The program also includes a follow-up monitoring and evaluation
system, under which the graduates are evaluated every six months to see if
they are working effectively or require further training. The HA needs at
least 700 graduates from the school.  By the end of 1986, about  10 trainees
had been accepted for the programs of which about 400 have graduated and are
working for the HA. Ninety graduates are working for CLCCD, and their train-
ing has represented a significant and highly visible aspect of the technical
assistance provided by the HA to the LCDDs. The program is well known among
private sector employers, and, as a sign of its success, they have started
sending their own staff to participate in the training program.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Setting
3.01     The proposed Sana'a - Hodeidah Road Rehabilitation Project is a high
priority item in the Third Plan (1987-91) and represents about 202 of proposed
main road rehabilitation and improvement. The program of road investments in
the Third Plan is based on the Highway Master Plan (para. 2.09) which itself
is based on sound economic principles. The project represents a continuing
response to Government's and IDA's priority objectives in the highway
sub-sector. These include policy and institutional reforms, transport plan-
ning, improvement of the physical infrastructure and training of manpower
through an interrelated and coordinated strategy which will gradually help
establish new and efficient institutions and a national policy framework.
B. Project Objectives
3.02     The prime objective of the proposed project is to assist the Govern-
ment in its program of rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of the HA
road network in order to conserve and develop economic resources, particularly
foreign exchange, avoiding the huge costs of complete reconstruction and of
high vehicle operating expenses, and the repair of serious flood damage to
important road links. Other important objectives of the project are to:
(a) undertake studies for priority projects and identify and
encourage institutional reforms;
(b) improve fuel pricing and vehicle taxation through a more
appropriate financial participation of heavy vehicle users in
the costs of wear and tear to the network by their vehicles;
(c) protect existing road infrastructure through a policy of
adequate allocation and management of funds for maintenance;
(d) increase the capability and efficiency of the domestic con-
struction industry in order to reduce construction costs and
increase employment opportunities; and
(e) assist in attracting and coordinating co-financing from other
sources.



- 17 -
C. Description
3.03     The project components will be:
(a) road works:
(i)    rehabilitation/strengthening, and selected improvements of
the Sana'a-Hodeidah (including Manakha junction) road; and
(ii)    rehabilitation of flood-damaged road sections and bridges
(Annex 11);
(b) technical assistance:
(i)    for construction supervision of the Sana'a - Hodeidah road
works (Annex 12);
(ii)    for assisting Government in addressing transport sector
policy issues (Annex 8);
(iii)    as needed, for the preparation of future projects; and
(iv)    to the domestic contracting industry to assist it in
carrying out civil works and to improve its efficiency
(Annex 13); and
(c) procurement of road maintenance equipment (Annex 14).
The project objectives and description were confirmed during negotiations,
(para. 5.02a).
Road Works (Map IBRD 19909R)
Rehabilitation/Strengthening of the Sana'a-Hodeidah (226 km.) Road
3.04     The road traverses three of the four geomorphic regions of YAR.  The
first 70 km after Hodeidah are on the flat coastal plains, the Tihama; the
next 120 km traverse the escarpment of the Yemeni mountains, following the
narrow gorges of the Wadi Soudeed and its tributaries along areas of consid-
erable agricultural value during the first 80 km and then ascending to 2,900 m
at km 184 and descending by means of hairpin sections the west and east sides
of the 3,600 m Jebel (mountain) Haraz.  The last 36 km are on the arid Sana'a
plateau (2,300 m).  The rain ranges from 150 mm/year at Hodeidah to 700 mm, in
the escarpment area and 400 mm at Sana'a. The intense rainfall produces
serious drainage problems in the escarpment area where some road sections
become impassable for hours after heavy rainfall.
3.05     The existing road was constructed between 1958-62 with financial and
technical assistance provided by the People's Republic of China for a design
period of 20 years. Since 1962, the road has been subject to higher traffic
volumes and loadings than those for which it was designed, and now carries 4
to 5,000 v.p.d. including 30% of heavy vehicles. This has resulted in rising
and unacceptable maintenance and vehicle operating costs and also serious
accidents. Based on the present traffic and its estimated growth until year
2,000, the consultants prepared 10-year life designs, which provide for road
strengthening with a variable overlay of asphalt concrete, rehabilitation and
realignment in several places, enlargement of shoulders and a more efficient
drainage system.



- 18 -
Rehabilitation of Flood-Damaged Road Sections and Bridges
3.06     Most of the roads damaged by the April-May 1987 floods have been
satisfactorily repaired by the HA Construction and Maintenance Departments.
However, the damages on the Sana'a-Marib (175 km) and Taiz-Al Mafraq (64 km)
roads and on the 210 m long Harad bridge in the Hodeidah-Harad road, near the
Saudi border, were beyond average proportions and could not be repaired with
the existing facilities and staff of these two departments. During the nego-
tiations of the proposed credit in June 1987, the Yemeni delegation requested
financing of these damages under the credit. A mission visited YAR in
July/August 1987 to evaluate the costs of these damages. The two road
sections (including some minor bridges) will require rehabilitation with a new
asphalt concrete pavement. The Harad bridge needs total reconstruction. The
description of the works and their cost estimates amounting to US$4.5 million
are detailed in Annex 11 and Table 3.1.
Technical Assistance
Construction Supervision
3.07     The HA will employ consultants to assist in the supervision of con-
struction of Sana'a - Hodeidah road works. Terms of Reference which are
presented in Annex 12 were discussed and agreed during negotiations (para.
5.03 c). Employment of consultants for supervision of Sana'a-Hodeidah road
works is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 5.04b).
Supervision of flood-damaged road works will be carried out by HA using
technical assistance provided under the Fifth Highway Project
(Credit 1413-YAR).
Studies
3.08     The proposed studies and TA component are presented in Annex 8.  They
will assist the authorities in investigating and addressing priority issues in
the transport sector (Annex 8) and in preparing specific studies for future
transport infrastructure works, i.e. rehabilitation of Hodeidah - Mocha road,
which could form the basis of future projects. Such studies need not be
limited to the highway subsector and may include, for example, a Port Master
Plan. The arrangements for the selection and implementation of studies were
discussed and agreed at negotiations (para. 5.03(a)).
Assistance to the Domestic Construction Industry
3.09     Domestic contractors will receive technical assistance and training
in modern management and engineering techniques through a Construction
Industry Unit in the HA which will be in charge of implementing this component
(para. 3.18 and Annex 13). The HA will select suitable sized contracts for
the training of medium and small scale domestic contractors amounting at least
to a total of YR25.0 million (US$2.8 million equivalent) per year. During
negotiations these arrangements were agreed (para. 5.03d).



- 19 -
Road Maintenance Equipment
3.10     The equipment to be procured under the project will comprise mainly
wheel lo&Jers, dozers, rollers, asphalt pavers and trucks (Annex 14). It will
replace those units beyond economic repair or about 10 percent of the units
needing replacement through 1991 as included under the Third Plan. This
equipment and the equipment to be purchased under ongoing approved credits and
OPEC Loan 114P will guarantee an equipment fleet consistent with the main-
tenance needs of the 1988-91 period. The equipment listed in Annex 14 also
includes (a) spare parts to rehabilitate items of existing equipment and
representing about 15 percent in value of the equipment procured under the
project, and (b) about US$0.2 million for the procurement of road marking
paint and other traffic features. This list of maintenance equipment was
discussed and agreed during negotiations (para. 5.03e).
D. Engineering
3,11     Detailed engineering of the Sana'a-Hodeidah Road Rehabilitation was
completed in September, 1986 by the HA with the assistance of consultants
financed under the Third Highway Project (Credit 794-YAR). To reduce
construction costs, a 10-year instead of 15-year design life was selected,
shoulder widths in the escarpment section were reduced and some proposed
realignments were eliminated. Particular attention was paid to the design of
drainage works. The improved road would have a paved carriageway 6.5m width
with an overlay averaging 10cm thick and with stabilized gravel shoulders of
l.5m except on 60km of the escarpment zone where, because of the difficult
terrain, shoulder width would be reduced to 0.50m. Surface treatment will be
applied to shoulders on grades of more than 6 percent. The design standards
for the proposed road are satisfactory (Project File, Annex 1). Detailed
engineering of the Harad bridge is being prepared by consultants under the
Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1413-YAR) and will be completed in early 1988.
The detailed engineering of flood-damaged road sections and bridges is being
finalized by the HA with the technical assistance provided under the Fifth
Highway Project and is satisfactory.
E. Cost Estimates
3.12     The estimated cost of the proposed project, including contingencies,
amounts to US$57.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$43.9
million or about 772 of the total cost. The cost of the various project
components are given in Table 3.1 below.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimate
PoeXQSbomoet c,MAngttLot .i-                                             IkAl        I Fj.E
-YR Million (US$ Million)---
(a) Sana'a - Hodeidah Road Rehabilitation
Section I (Hodeidah-Ma'abar; 60.7 km)     14.4   (1.6)   48.6   (5.4)        63.0    (7.0)   77
Section II (Ma'abar-Mawsannah; 54.3 km)   24.0   (2.7)   79.2   (8.8)       103.2   (11.5)   77
Section III (Mawsannah-Mafhaq; 47.0 km)   22.4   (2.5)   78.3   (8.7)       100.7   (11.2)   78
Section IV (Mafhaq-.Sana'a; 57.4 km)      21.6   (2.4)   72.9   (8.1)        94.5   (10.5)   78
Sub-total (a)                    82.4   l9.21       279.0 f31.0)   361.4   L4L2.1   77
(b) Flood-Damaged Road sections and Bridges
Sana'a-Marib                               3.8   (0.4)   12.6   (1.4)         16.4    (1.8)   77
Taiz-Al Mafraq                             0.9   (0.1)    1.8   (0.2)         2.7    (0.3)   65
Harad Bridge                               5-5   .L.I6)   164.    ±.AI       UA.      (2.4)   75
Sub-total (b)                    10.2   (1.1)   30.9   (3.4)        41.1    (4.5)   75
1I. Technical Assistance
(a) Construction Supervision               3.2   (0.4)   13.5   (1.5)        16.7    (1-9)   81
(b) Domestic Construction Industry         1.6   (0.2)    7.2   (0.8)         8.8    (1.0)   82
(c) Studies                                -              -- L.    (0.4.     _3LDA  ...4   l0
Sub-total                          4.    (O L,6)   U24.3   1L2.7     29.1    L3l1   84
III. Road Maintenan5ce Egulpent                 -           LI 26.1   12.906               (2.9)  100
BASE COST (June 1987)             97.4  (10.9)  360.3  (40.0)       457.7   (M0.9)   79
IV. Cnngnci
Physical (1S% of a. b and Ila)             4.8   (0.5)   16.2   (1.8)        21.0    (2.3)   77
Price                                     15l.    L (lLU    J8.L    12.1U    3A.1    (3.81   55
TOTAL PROJECT COST              117.5  (13.1)  395.3  (43.9)       512.8   (57.0)   77
=== ===2==  =====  _=====      _====   a=====
3.13      Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from final
engineering designs and on consultants estimates of unit rates and checked
against recent contract awards (Taiz-Al Mafraq and Sana'a-Taiz roads). The
foreign cost element is estimated from a breakdown of cost elements. The
local costs include estimated taxes to be paid by the contractor amounting to
about 2% of total costs; taxes and duties on imports are exempted for the
project. Cost estimates for the road maintenance equipment are based on
recent quotations.
3.14      The proposed Project provides for an estimated 400 man-months of
technical assistance for the supervision of Sana'a-Hodeidah rehabilitation
works. Supervision of flood-damaged roads and bridge works will be carried
out by HA (para. 3.07). The costs of technical assistance to the domestic
construction industry have been estimated on the basis of man-month rates for
similar services in other countries. Three advisers for about three years



- 21 -
will assist in the implementation of that component. Rates for studies are
based on an estimated lump sum discussed with the HA. All technical
assistance costs are exempted of taxes and duties.
3.15     A physical contingency of 51 is included for both civil works and
construction supervision to cover possihle increases in quantities. Excepting
maintenance equipment, price escalationt has been estimated assuming rates of
inflation for local and foreign costs for the period 1987-1990 as follows:
local costs 10% for each year 1987-90 and foreign 3% for 1987 and 1% for each
year 1988-90. Based on favorable procurement prics in recent years, it is
considered unnecessary to provide for price escalation for equipment. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed the above cost estimates (para. 5.02 b).
F. Financing
3.16     The Borrower will be the Government of the YAR.  The Association
would provide a credit of US$18.0 million equivalent leaving about
US$26.0 million in foreign exchange to be financed by co-financing sources and
local costs of about US$13.0 million equivalent. The Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development (AF) has confirmed that it will provide under parallel
financing about US$24 million equivalent for separate, economically justi-
fied components, for Sections I, II and III of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road
rehabilitation and corresponding works supervision. The OPEC Fund has also
been approached and has agreed to provide financing for the rehabilitation of
Section I in joint financing with the AF for about US$4.4 million. The
signature of the AF and OPEC loans is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Association credit (para. 5.04a). The proposed financing plan is
shown in Table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Millions including Contingencies)
Component               Component Cost    lo    AF   mEE    Got.
Local  foreignToa
Road Works
(a) Sanaa Road Rehabilitation
Section I                    1.9    6.0    7.9      -     2.0   4.4    1.5
Section II                  3.2    9.7    12.9      -    10.0    -      2.9
Section III                  3.0    9.6    12.6     -    11.2    -       1.4
Section IV                   2.9    8.2    11.8    9.2   -ZA. .         2
Sub-total              11.0   34.2    45.2    9.2  23.2   4.4    8.4
(b) Flood-Damaged Road Sections and Bridges
Sanata-Marib                 0.6    1.5    2.1      1.6   -      -      0.5
Taiz-Al Hafraq               0.1    0.2    0.3    0.2   -        -      0.1
Harad Bridge                 OA     L               2Q42   -     -      Li
Sub-total (b)           1.5    3.7    5.2    4.0   -         -      1.2
II.   technical Assistance
Construction Supervision    0.4    1.7    2.1    0.7   0.8    -         0.6
Oomestic Construction Industry  0.2    1.0    1.2    0.8   -.    -.    0.4
Studies                      -.     LI      LI      LI    -. 0.         _.
Sub-total               0.6    3.1    3.7    1.9   0.8    -         1.0
III.   Road Maintenance Equioment
TOTAL                  13.1    43.9    57.0    18.0  24.0   4.4   10.6



- 22 -
G. Implementation and Monitoring
3.17     The HA will be responsible for implementing all components of the
proposed project. The road works will be carried out by contractors and the
HA will employ consultants to assist in construction supervision. Studies
selected and agreed between the HA and the Association during project
implementation (para. 3.08), will be carried out by consultants.
3.18     Assistance to the Domestic Construction Industry will be provided by
a Construction Industry Unit (CIU) to be established within the HA. This unit
will be staffed by a team of three experts (Team leader and Construction
Management Specialist, Highway Engineer and Mechanical Superintendent) for
three years. The CIU will report directly to the Chairman of the HA. Yemeni
counterpart(s) will be integrated in the CIU and will run the unit after
departure of the foreign experts. The CIU will also advise and train the HA
in all activities related to preparation, evaluation, supervision and adminis-
tration of contracts and will assist the contractors concerned through direct
on-the-job cooperation and training in seminar courses. Terms of reference
for the team of experts to be employed by or before March 31, 1988, are given
in Annex 13 and were discussed and agreed during negotiations, (para. 5.03f).
3.19     The procurement of road maintenance equipment will be phased over the
period 1988-90.
3.20     Based on ongoing project implementation profiles in YAR, it is
expected that road works would start in early 1988 and be completed by end
1990. The implementation schedule for each project activity, is shown in
Annex 15. The project completion date would be December 31, 1990 and the
proposed credit would be closed twelve months later or by December 31, 1991.
For monitoring the project, the HA should submit quarterly reports to the
Association detailing the implementation and progress of the different project
components. Within six months of the closing date of the credit, the Borrower
will provide the Association with a Project Completion f*port. Annex 16 gives
details of project monitoring indices to be applied and used in the progress
reports. During negotiations, the implementation schedule and reporting
arrangements were discussed and agreed upon (para. 5.03g).
Procurement
(a) General
3.21     In order to permit parallel financing by international financial
institutions and to provide bidding opportunities for medium and large con-
tractors, the Sana'a-Hodeidah road was divided into four sections with
self-contained designs and bidding documentation. These sections are, Section
I, Hodeidah km 3 to Ma'abar Junction km 63.7, Section II km 63.7 to Mawsannah
km 118.0, Section III km 118.0 to Mafhaq km 160.0 including the 5 km Manakha
Spur and Section IV from km 160.0 to Sana'a boundary km 217.4.
(b) Procurement of Association Financed Components
3.22     The civil works (road section IV costing US$11.8 million and
flood-damaged road sections and bridges, US$5.2 million) will be contracted



- 23 -
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
the Association's guidelines for procurement.
3.23     The procurement of road maintenance equipment will also be under ICB
procedures in accordance with the Association's guidelines for procurement.
3.24     Consultants services for construction supervision (US$0.7 million)
and for other technical assistance services, including those for the domestic
contracting industry (US$1.0 million) and studies (US$0.4 million), will be
carried out by qualified and experienced consultants selected and appointed in
accordance with the Association's guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.25     All contracts will be subject to prior review and approval by the
Association.
(c) Procurement of Non-Association Financed Components
3.26     Procurement of components financed by other lenders, namely road
Sections I, II and III ane their works supervision, will follow the guidelines
of those agencies which are satisfactory for the purpose of the project. The
Table 3.3 below summarizes the methods of procurement applied for each com-
ponent.
Table 3.3: Procurement Analysis
…------- Procurement Method ------------------
TOTAL
Project Element          ICB         LCB       OTHER     N.A.      COST -
------------------- US$ Million --------------…--
Civil Works                   17.0          -       33.42        -       50.4
(13.2)       ()        (           _      (13.2)
Technical Assistance           -            -        3.73'      -         3.7
(-)    (-)     ~~(1.9)      ()       (1.9)
Maintenance Equipment          2.9          -        -           -        2.9
(2.9)       ()-)-)2.9
Total                   19.9         -        37.1        -        57.0
(16.1)       (-)       (1.9)      (-)     (18.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
1/ Costs include estimated contingencies.
2/ Civil works financed by AF and OPEC and procured under their own pro-
cedures.
3/ Includes US$1.9 million for consultants selected in accordance with IDA's
guidelines for the use of consultants, and US$1.8 million for supervision
of AF and OPEC civil works by consultants selected according to their own
guidelines.



- 24 -
3.27     During negotiations, all procurement arrangements were discussed and
agreed upon (para. 5.03h).
Disbursements
3.28     Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) 80 percent of total expenditures for civil works (US$12.3
million or SDR9.6 million);
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of the consultants' services
for supervision of civil works, studies and assistance to the
domestic contracting industry (US$2.7 million or SDR2.1
million); and
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of road maintenance equip-
ment and spare parts (US$1.7 million or SDRI.3 million).
All withdrawal applications will be fully documented.  Disbursements against
contracts valued at $100,000 or less would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support expenditures financed under
SOEs would be maintained by the HA and made available for review by IDA super-
vision missions in addition to being audited by auditors acceptable to the
Bank. During negotiations, these arrangements were confirmed (para. 5.03i).
3.29     To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened in the
Central Bank by the HA. The authorized allocation for the Special Account
would be US$1.5 million, equivalent to about three months of IDA's share of
project expenses. For civil works, funds would be withdrawn by the HA from
the Special Account on the basis of certificates of works certified by the
supervision consultants. Repleliishments for technical assistance and main-
tenance equipment would be made on the basis of appropriate documentation.
Replenishments of the Special Account will follow IDA's procedures. The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors (para.
3.34). During negotiations, the establishment and operation of the Special
Account was agreed upon (para. 5.03j).
3.30     Assuming the credit becomes effective in January 1988, a schedule of
disbursements is given in Annex 17. While the regional disbursement profile
for highway projects indicates about a 8 to 10 year disbursement period (93b
disbursed within 8 years), the experience in the YAR has been much better.
Implementation of civil works under the Fourth Highway Project was completed
in two years; other foreign financed projects of similar characteristics were
completed in similar periods. Although the ongoing Fifth Highway project's
civil works component is one year behind schedule due to delays in effec-
tiveness, this has not been and is not expected to be repeated. Even with
this initial delay, the civil works are expec,ed to be completed just over
four years after Board presentation. On this basis, it is expected that the
proposed project will be completed by December 31, 1990 and that disbursement
will be completed by December 31, 1991 - a four year disbursement period.



- 25 -
H. Emplovment Aspects
3.31     The project will have positive effects on employment.  The rehabil-
itation/strengthening of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road and of the flood-damaged
road sections would provide employment for about 700 persons during a con-
struction period of three years or a total of 25,200 man/months. Once
rehabilitated, the roads will boost transport activities and commercial
development which will also benefit employment. The assistance to the
domestic construction industry would also lead to the generation of permanent
employment for Yemenis, and could, conservatively, amount to 1,000 jobs.
I. Environment
3.32     As the works are confined to the improvement of existing roads,
strengthening and improving these roads will not have any detrimental effect
on the environment and should result in some decrease in road accidents
through improvements of road conditions and sight distances.
J. Accounting and Auditing
3.33     In 1983, the HA introauced a new financial and cost accounting system
which covers almost all areas of financial management. Separate accounts are
kept for the construction and maintenance divisions, and expenditures are
separately recorded for each project. An adequate inventory control system
for spare parts is also in operation. Periodic reevaluations of assets have
taken place since 1981. On the whole, the financial and cost accounting
systems and documentation recording systems form a satisfactory basis for the
auditing and monitoring of road projects.
3.34     The HA agreed under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Project to have
project related expenditures audited by independent auditors. This has been
done since 1983. The HA is also submitting its annual accounts to the Associ-
ation duly audited by independent auditors. During negotiations, the HA
agreed to provide audited project accounts to the Association within six
months of the close of each fiscal year during project implementation (para.
5.03k).
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Approach
4.01     For the purposes of the economic evaluation, carried out by con-
sultants, the Sana'a-Hodeidah road was divided into seven homogenous sections
(Annex 18) according to traffic and terrain characteristics. The methodology
is based on that given in the YAR Highway Master Plan (HMP) and, in particular
the manual for the vehicle operating cost model developed as part of the HMP
and it is described in greater detail in Annex 18. Estimates of vehicle
operating costs in this model were based on the Transport and Road Research
Laboratory's Road Transport Investment and Maintenance (RTIM) model.



- 26 -
4.02     The benefits expected to be generated by the project are:
(a) from the road improvement, vehicle operating cost savings
(primarily reductions in tyres, spare parts, maintenance costs
and vehicle depreciations), passenger time savings, and road
maintenance and reconstruction cost savings and reductions in
road accidents which will accrue to the Government, road users
and those communities served by the road. This would amount to
an average YR150.0 million per year; and
(b) from promoting the development of the domestic contracting
industry, increases in efficiency and productivity and savings
in foreign exchange as well as some increases in employment, it
is essentially a long-term investment and difficult to quantify,
however, a 1% increase in efficiency resulting from this com-
ponent would yield large financial and economic returns.
B. Results of the Sana'a-Hodeidah Road Improvement Evaluztion
4.03     The estimated costs and benefits (Annex 18), computed over a 10 year
period, yield an overall project economic return (ER) of about 29%.  If
vehicle passenger time savings are excluded, the ER drops slightly to about
28%.  Using a discount rate of 12%, a First Year Rate of Return (FYRR) of
about 27%, is obtained. The individual road sections' ERs range from about
21% to 44% using the base traffic forecasts and from 19% to 41% using the low
traffic forecasts. It is not possible to match exactly the seven sections
used in the economic analysis with the proposed four contract sections
(para. 3.21) but, approximately, they give economic rate of return of 34%,
27%, 31% and 27% for Sections I, II, III and IV respectively.
4.04     The sensitivity of ER was calculated taking into account the possi-
bility of changes in forecast traffic (± 10%) and construction and maintenance
costs (+ 20%). In no case, even excluding passenger time savings, the ER
falls below 22%; in brief the project is well justified.
C. Flood-Damaged Roads and Bridges
4.05     No ER has been calculated for the Sana'a-Marib and Taiz-Al Mafraq
roads. If damages in several road sections and small bridges were not
repaired, this would cause the total isolation of the Marib area--and conse-
quently the paralizing of the oil refinery at Safir--and of the Al Mafraq area
with no possible alternatives. The consequent losses to the economy would far
exceed the costs of the repairs.
4.06     If the Harad bridge is not repaired, this would require a long
deviation through the Harad Wadi near the Saudi border. The deviation would
prevent the paralizing of the trade with Saudi Arabia but important negative
effects in traffic congestion and operational costs would not be avoided.
This is being taken into consideration in the ongoing study to be completed by
early 1988. Preliminary calculations by consultants estimate a minimum ER of
40 percent.



- 27 -
D. Road Maintenance Equipment
4.07     No ER has been calculated for the provision of road maintenance
equipment. This component is essential if adequate maintenance is to be pro-
vided. For periodic maintenance the rate of return is expected to be at least
as high as the ER of rehabilitating the Sana'a - Hodeidah road. Studies of
routine maintenance have typically shown rates of return in excess of 100%.
The HA has shown itself capable of both using and maintaining equipment
efficiently and, consequently, the component is considered highly justified.
E. Project Risks
4.08     The project is not subject to any unusual risks.  However, allowance
has been made for possible delays in the civil works component. All four
sections of the Sana'a-Hodeidah road are economically viable and works can be
carried out independently on each. The project's large technical assistance
component and Governments commitment to project objectives shown during
preparation should permit the implementation of proposed institutional
strengthening within the project time frame.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During credit negotiations, the Government's intention to create the
proposed Ministry of Transport and Public Works was ascertained (para. 1.13).
5.02     During negotiations, the Government confirmed:
(a) project objectives and description (paras. 3.03); and
(b) cost estimates (para. 3.15);
5.03     During negotiations, the Government agreed to the following:
(a) the action to be taken on transport sector strategy policy and
institutional issues as follows:
(i)    by December 31, 1987, prepare, in collaboration with MTPW,
and furnish to the Association for its comments, a plan to
strengthen and expand the Planning and Traffic Department
of the HA (para. 1.14);
(ii)    review with the Association, on an annual basis, the
Borrower's transport investment and maintenance proposals
(para. 1.18);
(iii)    complete, by December 31, 1988, in collaboration with the
Central Planning Organization of the Borrower and other
concerned agencies, a study of the mechanism and criteria
for the determination of petroleum prices, and discuss
thereupon the findings and recommendations of such a study
with IDA (para. 1.25);



- 28 -
(iv)    review with the IDA, by December 31, 1988, the levels of
road users charges, and adjust, on the basis of such a
review, said charges to such levels so as to differ-
entiate among classes of vehicles on the basis of their
axle-load (para. 1.27); and
(v)    cause the HA to employ the consultants required to assist
in carrying out the feasibility studies under Part II (c)
of the Project by March 31, 1988, and to ensure the
completion of such studies by June 30, 1990
(para. 3.08).
(b)  the routine and recurrent road maintenance budget would be
increased by 57 per annum in real terms during the course of the
1987-91 Plan (para. 2.17);
(c)  the terms of reference and employment of supervising consultants
(para. 3.07);
(d)  selection of suitably sized contracts for the training of medium
and small scale domestic contractors amounting to at least a
total of YR25 million (US$2.8 million) a year (para. 3.09);
(e)  the procurement list of maintenance equipment (para. 3.10 and
Annex 14);
(f)  the terms of reference and employment of experts to assist the
domestic construction industry by March 31, 1988 (para. 3.18);
(g)  the implementation schedule and reporting arrangements
(para. 3.20);!
(h)  procurement arrangements (para. 3.22 to 3.27);
(i)  arrangements for the use of statements of expenditure
(para. 3.28);
(j)  the establishment and operation of a Special Account
(para. 3.29); and
(k)  provide audited project accounts to the Association within six
months of the close of each YAR fiscal year during project
implementation (para. 3.34).
5.04     The proposed IDA credit would become effective only upon:
(a) signature of the US$24 million equivalent loan from the AF and a
$4.4 million equivalent loan from the OPEC Fund (para. 3.16); and
(b) employment of consultants for the supervision of the
Sana'a-Hodeidah road works (para. 3.07).



- 29 -
5.05     Subject to agreement on the above, the project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR14.0 million (US$18.0 million -quivalent) to the Yemen
Arab Republic under standard IDA terms with a maturity period of 40 years.
(76060)



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A - HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.       Rendel Palmer and Tritton, Sana'a - Hodeidah Road Upgrading and
Strengthening Project - Design and Economic Analysis Report
(3 Volumes), September, 1986.
2.       Dar Al Handasah - Development of a National Highway Master Plan
(Final Report), April 1986.
3.       Rendel Palmer and Tritton, Transport Sector Review Update,
October 1986.
4.       Rendel Palmer and Tritton, Review of Structure and Functions of
the General Secretariat for Transport Affairs (Draft Final
Report), May 1984.
5.       The World Bank Yemen Arab Republic Transport Sector Memorandum
(Green Cover), November 1985.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A - HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Existing Main Road Network
(As of December 31, 1986)
Paved                            Km             Unpaved                     Km
SANA'A-HODEIDAH                  226           KITAB-ANNADERAH              30
ALMAGRABA-MANAKHA                  5            ASHOOL-HOBBISH              14
HODAIDA-AL MAFRAQ                192            YARIM-ALDALIL               63
SANA'A-TAIZ                      256           AL YAKHAR-AL KAFR            25
S*ANA'A-SADAH                    242            YARIM-HOWBAN                25
BAJIL-MABAR                      159            IBB-AL UDDAYN               31
TAIZ-TURBA                        70            IBB-JIBLAH                   6
TAIZ-AL MAFRAQ                    64            IBB-QATABA                  85
TAIZ-AL RAHIDA                    68            IBB-BADAN                   19
SANA'A-HADDA                       6           TELEVISION ROADS             70
SANA'A-SHIBAM                     34            SHIBAM-ALMAHWIJ             77
SANA'A-WADI DHAR                  12            AL WAIDA-DISSUFAL           10
SANA'A-ALMATAR                    22           AL HOWBAN-MAWIYA             39
SANA'A-JIHANA                     49            TAIZ-SABAR                  11
SHIBAM-HABABA-THILLA              15           ASSAIRAH-MAKBANA             24
AIRPORT-ALSAMA                    15            HIDRAN-ARRAWNAH             26
HODEIDAH-KATIB                    14            JABAL-HABASHI               26
SANA'A-MARIB                     173            YOUFRES                      4
ANRAN-HAJJA                       77            ANNASHIMA-QADAS             35
SADAH-DALIRAN                     80           HODEIDAH-SALIF               46
HODEIDAH-JAIZAN                  206           AL RUSHM-HAJJA               64
AL MAFRAQ-AL MOKHA                45            BAJIL-AL KADEM              23
WADI DHAR-AL KARYA ROAD            6            AL MANSURIA-AL SUKHNA       20
DHAMAR-AL BAYDA                  155            HAIS-AL KHOKHA              29
SANA'A-BAGIM                       5            AL AWIYA ROAD               12
HODEIDAH-RASKATIB                  7            ASSUKHNA-AL QABA-
YARIM-QATABA                      96             RAIBATH                    29
ALSAMA-ARHAB                15
TOTAL                       2,299           MABAR-ANIS                   82
HUTH-ALASSHAI               18
AL KATAIBA ROAD             22
ARHAB-HAZM                 100
AL RIBAD-AL JABI            24
JIHANA-MARIB               129
RADA-JUBAN DAMT             84
TOTAL                 1,317
Source: HA and Appraisal Mission
July t987
(78810)



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ports and Airports Traffic
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985
Ports Traffic
(Excluding Oil Products)
Imports (mill. tons)             2.36       2.67       2.57      2.94       2.84
Exports (mill. tons)              0.09      0.10       0.14      0.21       0.20
Total Hodeidah                    1.67      1.44       1.65      2.21       2.19
Total Mocha                       0.22      0.33       0.36      0.57       0.60
Total Containers (Nos TEUs)
(Mainly Hodeidah)               NA        16,091    39,980    45,214    47,310
Airport Traffic
Sana'a Airport:
Passengers ('000)         439        459       517        473       476
Planes                  13406      12422    132450       5010     10348
Hodeidah Airport-
Passengers ('000)              46          -          -         -         64
Taiz Airport-
Passengers ('000)               37         -          -         -        120
Yemenia Airlines
Passenger kms on Scheduled
Services (millions)             -        490          -         -        573
Passenger kms on Charter
Services (millions)             -         73          -         -          3
Scheduled Service Load
Factor                          -         56.8        -         -         55
Sources:  PMAC, CAMA and YEMENIA
July 1987
(7881 D)



- 33 -
ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Highway Expenditure and Revenues
(Current YR millions)
1982         1983       1984          1985
Revenue
Vehicle Purchase Tax            1.86         2.24       1.90          6.00
Registration Fees              6.50         11.90       8.60         11.00
Import Duties                368.00        521.00    400.00        615.00
Annual License Fees           86.00        102.00    135.00        160.00
Driving Licenses                9.00        10.50      10.30          6.50
Taxes on Fuel                 33.00        (50.00)   175.00        150.00
Total                   504.36        697.64    730.80        948.50
Expenditure
Highway Authority:
Capital              282.0*        282.0*    295.0         179.0
Maintenance           32.7          35.8      33.0          36.0
Administration        (8.0)          8.9      (9.9)          5.2
Total          322.7        326.7      337.9         220.2
Local Roads:
Capital               73.0*         73.0*     73.0*         25.0
Maintenance           NA            NA        NA             7.0
*   Average figures from Second Plan (1982-86)
Figures in brackets are mission estimates.
Note: Records of expenditures are still rather unreliable and incomplete but
the HA is making considerable efforts to improve the situation.
Source: Highway Authority and official statistics
July 1987
(788 ID)



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs, Prices and Consumption of
Gasoline and Diesel Fuel, November 1986
(YR/Litre)
Costs and Prices                Gasoline                 Diesel
CIF Import Price1'                1.45                    1.35
Other Economic Costs              0.44                    0.49
Economic Cost                     1.89                    1.84
Taxes and Other
Contribution                     0.32                    0.11
Financial Cost                    2.21                    1.95
Retail Price2'                    3.25                    2.05
Retail Price/Economic Cost
YR                               +1.36                    +.21
b                               +72                     +11
Retail Price/Financial Cost
YR                               +1.04                    +.09
%                               +47                      +5
Consumption 1985-'          260,000 tonnes          489,000 tonnes
(95% road transport)   (70% road transport)
1/ This price remains unstable
2/  Varies from one part of the country to another
3/ Data are very unreliable in earlier years due to the large element of
unofficial imports from Saudi Arabia.
Source: Yemen Petroleum Corporation and mission estimates
July 1987
(7881 D)



- 35 -
ANNEX 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Vehicle Taxation Rates
Import Duties
Motor-cars                132% ad valorem
Trucks                     82% ad valorem
Budes                      27% ad valorem
Registration Fee (all vehicles)   YR 150
Driving License    YR 500 p.a.
Annual Road Tax
Private cars                       YR 400
Taxis                              YR 600 plus YR 50 per passenger seat
Trucks                             YR 350 per ton payload
Buses                              YR 50 per passenger seat
Fuel Taxes
Gasoline                             YR 0.32  litre
Diesel                               YR 0.11 litre
Lubricants                           YR 0.225 litre
Tyres                       33%
Source: Highway Authority
July 1987
( 788 ID)



- 36 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A - HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Previous IDA Projects
1.       IDA's first involvement in YAR was the First Highway Project
(Cr. 315-YAR, FY73), which was co-financed with the Kuwait Fund. The
project emphasized technical assistance for establishing HA, and provided
for feasibility and engineering studies for priority roads, ccnstruction of
the Taiz-Turba road, and the purchase of road equipment. The aecond High-
way Project (Cr. 558-YAR, FY75), also co-financed with the Kuwait Fund,
financed the continuation of technical assistance to HA, and the construc-
tion of the Taiz-Al Mafraq road. The audit report for these first two
highway projects acknowledged that they improved many aspects of highway
operations in YAR despite shortages of staff and the small base upon which
they could build initially. In particular, they assisted in: (a) differen-
tiating road construction from other public works; (b) setting up and
improving the management structure of HA; (c) building up the road con-
struction and maintenance capability in HA; (d) setting up an equipment
pool; (e) introducing axle load controls; and (f) establishing a basic
accounting system.
2.       The Third Highway Project (Cr. 794-YAR, FY78), co-financed with
the OPEC Fund, financed additional technical assistance for HA, focussed
more closely on the road maintenance problem by inctuding equipment for
road maintenance, mechanical workshops and mainteniance depots; training and
fellowships; vehicle weighing stations; 3 km of pavement overlay; and
preparation of a Highway Master Plan (see Annex 1). The project included
about 600 man-months of technical assistance to HA to fill 18 in-line
senior technical and professional posts at HA. The project also included
the upgrading, equipping and staffing of the vocational training school at
Taiz to train 600 maintenance personnel over three years. The Highway
Master Plan Study addresses two key issues: determining investment
priorities in the face of budgetary and institutional constraints, and
recommending steps to improve the system of road user taxes. A national
axle loading policy has been established with technical assistance provided
under the project. Project implementation, although two years delayed, has
been satisfactory. A project completion report has been recently completed
(June 30, 1987).



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
3.       The Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1267-YAR, FY82), co-financed by
the Arab Fund, provides for strengthening the Taiz-Al Mafraq road, and also
includes studies and technical assistance and training to improve transport
sector organization and road operation. The road works were satisfactorily
completed in early 1985. The studies, especially the "Review of Structure
and Functions of the General Secretariat for Transport Affairs" (July 1986),
provided the basis for the establishment of the new Ministry of Transport
and Public Works (para. 1.13) which will also be supported by the technical
assistance and training provided under the project for this purpose.
4.       The Fifth Highway Project (Cr. 1413-YAR, FY83) provided for the
construction to paved standard of the Ibb-Al Udayn road, plus a two-year
continuation of the technical assistance and training component begun under
the Third Project. Project implementation started in mid-1985 after a
one-year delay due to contract problems and is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
5.       The Port Development Project (Cr. 714-YAR, FY77), co-financed with
the Kuwait Fund, included dredging, berth construction, and equipment for
the port of Hodeidah; as well as improvements at Mocha and technical
assistance to PMAC to increase the efficiency of port operations and to
improve financial management and accounting. It was successfully completed
in March 1983. The audit report for the project noted that the improve-
ments were timely and enabled the port of Hodeidah to cope with extreme
traffic congestion.
6.       The Marib-Safir Road Project (Cr. 1726-YAR) was approved in
July 1986, in the amount of SDR 8.6 million and became effective in
December 1986. The project seeks to assist in the development of domestic
oil production, provide access to agricultural areas irrigated by a new dam
and to improve the Highway Authority's capability to design road works.
The credit will finance the foreign exchange content of the second phase of
construction to an asphaltic concrete standard of the 62.5 km Marib-Safir
road. This road provides the only access to the oil fields and recently
completed refinery at Safir. Works are proceding satisfactory and would be
completed by February 1988.
July 1987



YEIEN AMS REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRtA1L KPMIT
SANA'A HODEIDAN ROAD REHARILITATION PROJECT
transoort Sctor Strateov - Issues and Action
Current Situation                         Action to be Taken                             Resoonstbilitv
(1)  Institutional            The present Planning and Traffic              The KMTP will prepare new terms of            WTP. and CPO Agencies
Reorganization           Department of the Highway Authority is        reference and a description of staffing
para. 1.14               too small and ill-equipped to meet the        and equipment needs for an expanded
needs of the Highway Authority let           Highway Planning Department should
alone those of an expanded ministry.         be ready by December 31, 1987
New terms of reference are required          for review and comment by IDA.
together with the parallel manpower
and equipment resources.
(2)  Sector Strategy           The strategy for developing the              The Association and the Government             MTPW and IDA
para. 1.18               transport sector is elaborated in the         will jointly review, annually in
Transport Sector Memorandum (TSH) of         September. overall progress made
November 1985.  In addition, the CPO         implementing and updating transport
is preparing a Transport Sector Review       sector strategy, and in implementing
and the Third Five-Year Plan (1987-91).      sector maintenance and investments
under the Third five-Year Plan and in
developing future strategy maintenance
and investments in the transport
sector. The first meeting should
take place by September 30, 1988.
(3)  Fuel Pricing             Current world petroleum product prices        A working party should be                      MTPW, CPO and Higher Council for  o
para. 1.25               are at such a level that diesel fuel is       established in collaboration with              Petroleu.n
no longer subsidized but further             the Central Planning Organization
devaluation of the YR or rise in oil         and other concerned agencies. to study
prices could reverse the situation once      and report by December 31. 1988 on a new
again placing a burden on the Treasury.      rationalized petroleum pricing mechanism
and criteria.
(4)  Road User Charge         The incidence of the existing vehicle         Study to be discussed among road users        HTPW
para. 1.27               tax favours those vehitles with heavy         and authorities.  Discussion should
axle loads (mainly two-axle vehicles)        be completed by March 31, 1988
which lead to most road damage.  A           and Ministry should prepare
study was completed in february 1986         recommendations for review by IDA
which recommends changes to remedy           and submission to the Government
the situation.                               by December 31. 1988 for approval
and implementation.
(5)  Analysis of Issues       With the agreement of the Government.         The need for any particular study will         MTPW. CPO and IDA.
and Project               IDA will update the 1985 Transport           be jointly agreed between the Govern-
Development              Memorandum in early 1988.  From this          ment and IDA.  The Government will
(para. 3.08)             updating and through the regular              then follow the MDA Guidelines for the
review process (1  above), it is             use of consultants in preparing terms
likely that studies will be required         of reference. hiring of consultants.
to analvse transport issues and to           etc.  IOA will be given the opportunity
develon oroiect proposals.  Such             to review and comment on the study
studies could be in any mode and             progress and findinos.                                                         00
already the possible need for a Ports
Master Plan is being considered.
Funds are included in the project for
them.
JutvY 19S7  (78230)



- 39 -
ANNEX 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH R:AD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet
(000's)
Vehicle Type                 1982           1983            1984             1985
Motor cars including
taxis                      53.0           98.3             NA            117.6
Buses                         0.1            0.2             NA              0.3
Trucks including
pick-ups                  115.0          137.9             NA            169.0
Motorcycles                  41.0           NA               NA              21.0
Total excluding
motorcycles               168.1          236.4             NA            286.9
Note:  Although efforts have been made to improve upon the official statistics
the figures are still extremely rough and only general inferences
should be drawn from them.
Sources: Highway Authority and Highway Master Plan
July 1987
(788 ID)



- 40 -
ANNEX 10
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Regulations for the Weights and Overall Dimensions
of Goods Vehicles
ARTICLE 1:           The axle-load of any goods vehicle transmitted to a flat
road surface shall not exceed the following values:
7 tons for both wheels of a single front axle
13 tons for all four wheels of a single rear axle
18 tons for all wheels of a tandem axle
20 tons for all wheels of a widely spaced tandem axle
27 tons for all wheels of a triple axle
30 tons for all wheels of a widely spaced triple axle.
ARTICLE 2:           The gross vehicle weight of any goods vehicle transmitted
to a flat road surface shall not exceed the following
values:
18 tons for a single unit truck with 2 axles
24 tons for a single unit truck with 3 axles
30 tons for both a two-axle tractor and a one-axle trailer
37 tons for any goods vehicle with 4 axles
45 tons for any goods vehicle with 5 axles or more.
ARTICLE 3:           The overall dimensions of any goods vehicle shall not
exceed the following:
12 metres for the length of any single unit truck
18 metres for the length of any tractor-trailer combination
4.50 metres for the height of any goods vehicle
2.75 metres for the width of any goods vehicle.
Source: Highway Authority
July 1987
(7B8 ID)



- 41 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation of Flood-Damaged Road and Bridges
INTRODUCTION
1.       The April-May 1987 heavy rains in some parts of the country caused
damages to numerous roads and bridges within the main road network. Those
most heavily damaged are:
(a) Sana'a-Marib Road (175 Km.)
(b) Taiz-Al Mafraq Road (64 Km.)
(c) Hodeidah-Jizan Road (210 m. Harad Bridge)
2.       It is estimated that it was a 30-year cycle rainfall of very high
intensity. The nature of the terrain in many parts of the country caused
flash floods with very high velocity. This caiised the erosion of
embankments and shoulders and consequent damage to pavement surface,
protection works and bridges.
3.       Most of the restoration works of embankment, shoulders and minor
protection works have been or are being undertaken by the Maintenance and
Construction Departments of Highway Authority.
4.       IDA assistance is sought for more extensive works such as
restoring pavement surface to a good serviceable condition, construction of
reinforced cement concrete (RCC) and stone masonry retaining walls and
repairs or reconstruction of bridges.
5.       The type of works and breakdown of costs for each road is
described separately below.
SANA'A - MARIB ROAD (175 Km.)
6.       The Sana'a-Marib Road consists of 2 cm asphalt treatment, 15 cm
crushed aggregate base course and in some locations 10 cm gravel subbase.
The road width is 7 meters with 1.5 m. shoulder on either side.
7.       This is the only route for oil traffic from Safir Refinery to
Sana'a and has a total traffic (1986) of 1404 vehicles per day with 22
percent heavy vehicles. It is therefore necessary to provide good
serviceable conditions to the heavy traffic plying on the road.



- 42 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 6
8.       Shoulder and embankments have been restored and some pipe culverts
reinstated by the Maintenance Department of the Highway Authority. The
work remaining to be immediately done is to restore the asphalt surface
between Km 155 - Km 166 (11 Ki) and Km 169-Km 171 (2 Km) of the road.
Immediate solution is to apply tack coat on the existing surface and seal
it with minimum asphalt layer.
9.       Of major concern on this road are the 3 bridges having the
following characteristics:
(a)  Bridge @ Km 46+800:  Four simply supported 7.35 m span bridge
of concrete slab construction.
(b)  Bridge @ Km 53+900:  Six simply supported 7.35 m span bridge
of concrete slab construction.
(c)  Bridge @ Km 79+400:  Three simply supported 14.7 m span
T-beam construction.
Settlement of piers and abutments are occurring. Also the approach slabs
have settled. Small cracks are developing on the slabs which will
eventually require stiffening or repairing before they become worse.
COST ESTIMATE (YR)
Item of Work                Quantity        Unit     Rate          Amount
1.  Provide a spray tack coat   91,000          m3             6         546,000
2. Provide and lay 4 cm
Asphalt concrete              3,640         m3         1,380      5,023,200
3. Lift shoulder by 4 cm.
Provide, place and
compact gravel                1,560         m3           150        234,000
4. Strengthening & repair
of 3 bridges
total length                    118         l.m       90,000     10,620,000
Total    YR          16,423,200
*Foreign component 772- YR           12,645,864
(uS$)       1,405,096
Local component 231  - YR            3,777,336
* Based on Consultants evaluation for similar works; US$ 1 = YR 9.



- 43 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 6
TAIZ - AL MAFRAQ ROAD (64 Km.)
10.      This road consists of 7 meter paved carriageway and 1-1.5 m
shoulders on either side. It consists of 7 cm asphalt concrete over 15 cm
base course. The average traffic (1986) is 3,520 v.p.d., 16 percent heavy
vehicles.
11.      The alignment passes through the wadi in many sections and the
recent floods have caused damages to the road. The nature of damage is
mostly in the form of embankment and shoulder erosion in four different
sections of varying length. The location, type of damage and solution is
described as under:
Station                     Damage                    Solution
1) Km 19+000-19+100      Embankment and                  2.5 meter high stone
shoulder erosion               masonry retaining wall
2) Km 23+645-23+705      In this section, an             Extension of same RCC
RCC wall is provided but       retaining wall for 60 m
the embankment got eroded      to protect embankment
beyond the end of the wall    from further damage
3) Km 24+6000-25+100    The gabions have been washed  To provide stone masonry
out for about 255 m length    wall 2.5 m high instead
of gabions
4) Km 31+100-31+200      The road is in half cut and   Provide for 3 meter high
half fill in the wadi.  The   masonry retaining wall to
flow of water washed out       protect the embankment
the embankment
Also the bridge @ Km 102 near Zabid on the continuation of the road from
Al Mafraq to Hodeidah which is a precast T-beam bridge is affected and one
of the bearings has bean damaged, causing that portion of the beam to be
tilted. Repair of this bearing is urgently needed to prevent further
damages.



- 44 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 6
COST ESTIMATES (YR)
Quantity     Unit      Rate          Amount
A)  Km 19+000-19+100 Stone
Masonry (1OOm) 2.5 m high
a) Excavation
1.5 x 0.5 x 100 = 75        75           m 3          90            6,750
b) Stone Masonry
0.6+1.10 x 2 x 100
2                      170           m 3       1,200          204,000
Total    YR             210,750
Quantity      Unit     Rate          Amount
B) Reinforced Concrete
retaining wall @
Km 23+645 up to Km
23+705 (60 m)
a) Excavation                   315          m3          90           28,350
b) Plain cement
concrete class (B)         19.2          m 3       1,000           19,200
c) Reinforced concrete
retaining wall
including steel            246           m 3       2,800          688,800
d) Back fill drainage
material                    180          m3          150           27,000
Total    YR             763,350
C) Stn 24+600-25+100
Restore damaged gabion
by retaining wall 255 m
length, 2.5 m high
a) Excavation
255 x 0.5 x 1.2               153        m3        90              13,770
b) Stone Masonry
0.6+1.3 x 255 x 2.5
2                      637.5        mi3        1,200          765,000
Total    YR             778,700



- 45 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 6
Quantity     Unit      Rate          Amount
D) Stn 31+100-31+300
200 m length wall 3m ht
a) Excavation
200 x .5 x 1.8             180           m 3          90          16,200
b) Stone Masonry
0.6+1.4 x 200 x 3
2                      600          m 3       1,200          720,000
Total    YR             736,200
E) Restoration of bearing
of bridge @ Km 102            Lump Sum                              250,000
Total A+B+C+D+E                                       YR         2_739_ 000
*Foreign component 65%- YR            1,780,350
(US$)         197,816
Local component 35%  - YR              958,650
* Based on Consultants estimate for similar works; US$ 1 = YR 9.
HODEIDAH - JIZAN ROAD (HARAD BRIDGE) 210 m long
12.      Harad Bridge is located at Km 170+600 on Hodeidah-Jizan Road,
about 10 Km from the border with Saudi Arabia. It is a girder bridge
having 20 m long spans.  The total length of the bridge is 210 m designed
in accordance with AASSHO HS20-44 loading. The average traffic (1986)
through the bridge consists of 2,050 v.p.d., 25 percent heavy vehicles.
13.      Extensive cracks have developed in the superstructure as well as
occurrence of settlement of piers and abutments. The protective works have
also been damaged and repair works or reconstruction as deemed appropriate
by the consultant, is needed to be carried out at the earliest.
14.      Dar Al-Handasah Consultants are conducting tests and the study is
in progress. The Consultant will make necessary recommendation either to
repair or reconstruct the bridge based on their investigation. The final
study, which is being financed under the Fifth Highway Project (Credit
1413-YAR) and included bidding documents and terms of reference for
supervision of works, would be ready by end-1987 or early 1988.



- 46 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 6
15.      A preliminary cost estimate of the bridge is attached including
the Foreign and Local component of the cost based on previous studies of
Consultants on similar projects.
COST ESTIMATE FOR HARAD BRIDGE (YR)
Item of Work                Quantity       Unit      Rate         Amount
1)  Removal of Existing
Structure                   lump sum                              1,500,000
2)  Excavation                  10,880          m3          180       1,958,400
3)  Backfill                     9,670          m3          250       2,417,500
4)  Form work                    1,792          m3          700       1,254,400
5)  Scaffolding                  2,054          m3          200         410,800
6)  Lean Concrete                   56          m3        2,500         140,000
7)  Concrete (Class A)           1,830          m3        4,000       7,320,000
8)  Steel                          650          ton      10,000       6,500,000
9)  Miscellaneous (grouting,
pipes, bearing pads,
etc.)                                                               500,000
Total    YR          22,001,100
*Foreign component 75%- YR          16,500,825
(US$)       1,833,425
Local component 25%  - YR           5,500,275
* Based on Consultants evaluation for similar works; US$ 1 = YR9.
Source: HA and Appraisal Mission Estimates, July 1987.



- 47 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision of Construction
Draft Terms of Reference
A. Scope of Work
1.       The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), with the Highway Author-
ity (HA) as executing agency, has requested assistance from the International
Develcpment Association (IDA) and the Arab Fund for Economic Development (AF),
Kuwait, for the purpose of providing engineering supervision for the rehabili-
tation/strengthening of the Sana'a-Hodeidah (226 km) road. Works will be
carried out by contract awarded following international competitive bidding
(ICB) procurement procedures and are considered to be essential to ensure the
structure, safety and proper management of the road for the next ten years.
Works include: (i) important drainage works necessary to safeguard the
existing subgrade and to protect the road structure from scour, erosion or
undermining; (ii) pavement rehabilitation, and widening where necessary, to a
minimum 6.5 m. width and its strengthening with an average of 10 cm. thick
asphalt concrete overlay; (iii) stablized shoulders of selected material of
1.5 m. width except in about 60 km. of the escarpment area with 0.50 m. width;
(iv) improvement of sight distances; and (v) furniture of the road including
guardrails, painting, signs and markers.
2.       The total cost of the works is estimated at US$46.0 million divided
into four self-contained sections of about US$12.0 million each. The super-
visionl of works require two contracts: one for Section IV to be financed by
the IDA and another for Sections I, II and III to be financed by the AF. The
tentative staff schedule proposed in Section E of these Terms of Reference
includes these two contracts.
B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Consultant
3.       The duties of the consultant are to supervise the works and approve
the materials and workmanship. He shall not relieve the contractor of any of
his contractual obligations without the previous consent of HA. Main responsi-
bilities of the consultants, in coordination with the HA, are to:



- 48 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
(a) issue orders to commence the works, and approve the work
program, and the list of equipment and personnel submitted by
the contractor;
(b) decide on the contractor's applications for subletting parts of
the works;
(c) assist in the settlement of any disputes between the HA and the
contractor;
(d) approve the contractor's working drawings;
(e) order special tests of materials, if required;
(f) appraise the progress of works and to order, if required, the
suspension of works and to determine any extension of the period
required to complete the works;
(g) evaluate variations, issue variation orders, and fix rates for
unpriced works;
(h) issue certificates of payment to the contractor, and certify
completion of the works;
(i) inspect the works during the maintenance period, and issue the
maintenance certificate; and
(j) advise the HA on all claims from the contractor and make recom-
mendations in the case of negotiations between the HA and the
contractor.
C. Duties and Responsibilities of the Resident Engineer and his Staff
4.       The duties of the Resident Engineer and his staff are to observe and
supervise the works and to test (or order to test) and examine any materials
used or workmanship employed in connection with the works. He shall not
relieve the contractor of any of his contractual obligations without the
previous consent of the HA.
5.       His main responsibilities, in coordination with the contractor and
HA, are to:
(a) inspect performance of works in compliance with the specifi-
cations, order, supervise or perform tests on materials, and
approve or disapprove the contractor's plant and equipment;



- 49 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 4
(b) check the progress of the works systematically, examine and
attend the measurement of any work that is about to be covered,
and order, if required, uncovering of unsatisfactory works and
its satisfactory reconstruction;
(c) check the contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other
statements with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance
with the contract;
(d) supervise the contractor in all matters concerning safety and
care of the works; direct operations in case of an emergency
situation affecting the safety of life, of the works or of
adjoining property; and
(e) carry out such duties under the terms of the contract as may
from time to time be delegated in writing from the consultant.
D. Reports and Documents
6.       The consultant shall furnish to the HA the following reports and
documents in the English language.
(a) Monthly Progress Reports (10 copies) commencing at the end of
the month following the date of the agreement between the HA and
the contractor for the construction of works. After the issue
of the Completion Certificate, these reports shall detail the
status of the maintenance of works and shall be submitted at
four-month intervals until the end of the Maintenance Period;
(b) Completion Report (20 copies) at the time of the final certi-
ficate; and
(c) Built Drawings (2 copies) of the project as soon as possible
after completion of the project.
E. Tentative Staff Schedule
7.       The consultant may reassess staff needed for supervision by visiting
the site. Based on a 2 year construction period, tentative staff needs for
Section IV would be:
Approx.
Manmonths
- Resident Engineer                   1         24
- Highway Materials Engineer          1         23
- Senior Surveyor                     1         23
- Inspector                           1         23
- Administrator/Secretary             1         23
TOTAL               5        116



- 50 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
8.       The staff needs estimated above are those required for the consultant
services contract to be signed for supervision of Section IV works to be
financed by the IDA. The following requirements are estimated for the super-
vision of a 3-year construction contract for Sections I, II and III works to
be financed by the AF are:
Approx.
Manmonths
- Resident Engineer                  1          38
- Highway Structural Engineer        1          37
- Materials Engineer                 1          32
- Surveyors                          2          74
- Inspector                          2          74
- Administrator/Secretary            1          37
TOTAL               8        297
9.       The contractor would provide the consultant and the HA representative
in-site reasonable office space and transportation, both free of charge. The
HA would provide the consultant with reasonable office space in Sana'a and
additional technical services duly justified.
Note:  The four sections of the Sana'a-Hodeidah Road Rehabilitation works are:
Section I   - Hodeidah-Malabar; 60.7 km
Section II - Ma'abar-Mawsannah; 54.3 km
Section III - Mawsannah-Mafhaq and Manakha junction; 47.0 km; and
Section IV - Mafhaq-Sana'a; 57.4 km.
July 1987
( 7 88 I D )



- S1 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Domestic Contracting Industry
Draft Terms of Reference
A.       Introduction
1.       The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) possesses more than fifty contracting
firms with adequate participation in the residential/office/industrial build-
ing construction industry but with a very low level of participation in civil
works, mainly road construction. Large road projects are contracted to
foreign firms while most of medium and small-size road projects are carried
out by force account by the Highway Authority (HA) with limited involvement of
domestic contractors. These factors have led to high construction costs as
the foreign contractors generally mark up their bids to cover their lack of
knowledge of local conditions, their perception of high potential risks during
contract implementation and their actual high mobilization costs. The main
consequences have been a drainage of foreign currency for the country, loss of
employment opportunities for the Yemenis and inadequate development of the
domestic contracting industry.
2.       HA has recently taken some steps to foster the utilization of domes-
tic contractors in road construction. It has subcontracted short section of
gravelled roads and some road structures (bridges, culverts, drainage ditches,
retaining walls) to Yemeni contracts. The results, however, have been mixed
and several of the subcontracts had to be rescheduled. These results were the
consequence of three main causes:
(i)    subcontracting decisions were taken on and ad hoc basis, without
previous planning;
(ii)    no continuity of jobs was provided to contractors; and
(iii)    HA could not provide the technical assistance needed by the
contractors.
3.       The Government of YAR wishes to develop participation of Yemeni con-
tractors in road construction by providing them job opportunities and
technical assistance under a program to be carried out by the HA. The job
opportunities would be selected on a continuous basis from the HA general



- 52 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
construction budgets 1988-90, and would amount to at least YR 25.0 million per
year divided into contracts of adequate sizes, tentatively from YR 1.0 to YR
5.0 million each totally financed with the proceeds of the budgets. The techni-
cal assistance would be provided under the Proposed Sana'a-Hodeidah Road
Rehabilitation Project and financed by IDA. A team (the Team) composed of
three international contracting experts, seconded by Yemeni counterparts, will
assist the HA and the Yemeni contractors during the three-year project
implementation period. A Construction Industry Unit (CIU) would be esta-
blished within the HA to promote, assist, supervise and regulate the
development of Yemeni contractors and their participation in road construc-
tion. The expatriate team would be attached to the CIU, would be responsible
of the CIU operation-including satisfactory and timely training of their
Yemeni counterparts within the three-year project period - and would report
directly to the HA Chairman.
B.       Objectives
4.       The objectives of this project are to develop capability and capacity
of the Yemeni contractors for execution of civil works, in particular road
construction. The contracts offered to Yemeni contractors would include earth-
works for road formation, drainage, retaining walls, culverts and bridges,
construction of road pavements with crushed stone, gravel, penetration macadam,
bituminous surface treatment, regravelling and resealing. Works including
asphalt concrete pavement should be delayed until positive progress in all
other aspects of road construction by selected Yemeni contractors are well
achieved. Tenders for works will be invited from the Yemeni contractors pre-
selected for road contracts. To provide opportunity for continuity of employ-
ment, HA will put to tender at appropriate intervals of time a number of
contracts of the size suitable for medium and small size contractors. The
Government's ultimate aim is to develop the Yemeni contractors' capacity to
compete successfully and gainfully with foreign contractors for road contracts.
C.       Scope of Work
5.       Assistance to the Highway Authority.  The team assistance to the HA
would include, but not be limited to the following:
(a) review of long and medium-term road development programs based
on realistic demands for construction and maintenance;
(b) assistance in preparation of annual road development programs
including programs of contracts for Yemeni contractors;
(c) preparation of tender documents including instructions to
tenderers, general and particular conditions, specifications,
priced bills of quantities, schedules, forms and drawings;



- 53 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
(d) participation in preselection of Yemeni contractors, in tender-
ing procedure, evaluation of tenders and contract awards;
(e) participation in supervision of works and contract administra-
tion, and evaluation of contractors' performance. Site super-
vision will be ensured by Yemeni resident staff, while Team
experts will assist in contract supervision;
(f) review existing standard tender documents and tendering pro-
cedures and formulate recommendation for improvement;
(g) review contractual payment conditions and procedures with a view
to ensure prompt payment to contractors;
(h) review of tax and custom duty regulations affecting contracting
industry, and recommendations for improvements, with particular
attention to any discriminating practices regarding foreign and
local contractors;
(i) analysis of the labor market and recommendations for improved
availability of skilled personnel;
(j) analysis of banking facilities available to contractors and
advice to HA on related matters; and
(k) assistance in equipment rental procedures, including establish-
ment of an equipment pool, if the HA would consider renting
equipment to contractors.
6.       Assistance to Yemeni Contractors.  The Team assistance to Yemeni
contractors will be through a direct on-the-job cooperation and training.
On-the-job cooperation would consist of advice and assistance in contractors'
potentially engaged on road contracts. On a contractor's request, a Team
member may be delegated to spend up to one week in the contractor's office
and/or on the site helping the contractor to prepare work program, planning
and management of the labor, materials and equipment requirements, organiza-
tion of work, book-keeping and accounting, cost accounting, setting out the
works, quality control, etc.
7.       Training.  The Team will prepare programs and organize and carry out
training of contractors and their high level staff, and the HA staff concerned
with the project, through courses, seminars and lectures held periodically,
and if necessary, on the repetitive basis. Seminars will be arranged for
contractors preselected for road contracts on the subject of conditions of
contract, specifications of works, logistics required to carry out the works
within the contractual time, organization of works, -ricing, cost accounting



- 54 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 6
and procurement procedures. HA also intends to provide to contractors engaged
on road construction the opportunity of training their skill working personnel
- previously selected by the Team - in the special courses (mechanics, electri-
cians, etc.) regularly provided in the Vocational Training Center at Taiz.
8.       Training programs should include enterprise management, site organi-
zation, road construction technics, financial and other aspects of road
contracting.  The subjects should include, but not be limited to the following:
(a) review of bidding documents and procedures;
(b) pricing of bids;
(c) planning of contract execution;
(d) maintenance and operation of equipment;
(e) spare parts management;
(f) materials purchase, storing and utilization;
(g) accounting, book keeping, cash flow;
(h) cost accounting;
(i) relations with financing institutions;
(j) progress billing and claims;
(k) personnel management;
(1) site aetting up and work organization;
(m) work programs, schedules of equipment allocations;
(n) labor force management;
(o) organization of work;
(p) progress monitoring; and
(q) relations with the employer and resident supervisor.
9.       The Team will develop a complementary training program for their
Yemeni counterparts which will complete their on-the-job training and enable
them to manage and operate the CIU at the end of the three-year project
period. Such program will include periodic seminars/workshops of 1 to 2 days
duration. Following each seminar/workshop, the Team leader should prepare
guidelines for the next training, aiming always towards improvement of the
counterparts participation in the CIU operation and management.
10.      Other Duties of Technical Assistance Team.  Under auspices of the HA
Chairman, the Team will keep contact and cooperate with the Government's
agencies concerned with the development of Yemeni construction industry, with
the association of Yemeni contractors, and with technical education esta-
blishments and vocational schoolc. The Team should monitor activity and
development of the construction industry sector in order to implement the
project in harmony with the general trends in this sector of the YAR economy.
11.      In the first half of the second year of the Team services, or as and
when instructed by the HA Chairman, the Team will carry out the preparation of
a free standing contracting industry project for development of the Yemeni
construction industry in all sectors, including buildings and civil works.
The task will comprise:



- 55 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
(a) updating of the existing studies on the subject: "The Construc-
tion Industry Survey and Identification Report" by World
Bank/UNIDO Cooperative Program, Report No. 17 of July 1981; and
"Construction Industry Sector Study" by SWECO, Consulting
Engineers, January 1982:
(b) recommendations for improvement measures and priority rating;
(c) plan of action;
(d) cost estimate; and
(e) implementation time schedule.
The services required for execution of this task are estimated at six-man
months and will be carried out together and within other duties of the Team.
Terms of reference for this task will be developed by the Team to the satis-
faction of the HA Chairman and the IDA.
D.       Resources
12.      Technical Assistance Team.  HA Chairman will invite selected con-
sult..ng/contracting engineering firms for technical and price proposals to
supply and maintain the team of experts to carry out the tasks specified in
these Terms of Reference (TOR). The Team will comprise basically three
experts, as follows:
-    Senior Highway Engineer/team leader experienced in contracting;
-    Highway Engineer experienced in design and construction, with
good knowledge of accounting;
-    mechanical superintendent/master mechanical expert in
construction equipment.
Job descriptions are included in the Attachment. Short-term experts (econo-
mist, financial analyst, accountant) totalling six-man months will serve on
the Team as and when required and agreed by the HA Chairman. The total
services of the Team should not exceed 108 man months. The team leader and
highway engineer will be mobilized in advance in order to prepare the CIU work
program, tender documents and procurement of road contracts.
13.      Contribution of HA.  The HA will establish the Construction Industry
Unit and provide counterpart staff, preferably two per expatriate expert, and
the supporting office and field personnel. It will provide all logistical
support necessary for the successful operation of the project, or provide



- 56 -
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
funds for procurement of such items of logistics which will not be readily
available. The logistics will include office, furniture, supplies, com-
munication and transportation services.
14.      HA will remunerate the consulting services according to schedules
attached to the invitation for proposals, in foreign currency and YR, in
amounts agreed and at rates stated in the contract. An Imprest Account will
be set-up in an approved Bank in Sana'a for the purpose of financing petty
local expenditures. The modality of imprest account operation will be des-
cribed in the schedules.
15.      To achieve the project objective of developing the Yemeni contractors
capacity in road construction works, the HA's action will be intent in the
following fields:
(a) ensuring job opportunities to Yemen contractors, who branch into
road construction, on a continuous basis; contracts of various
sizes will be put to tender in a number and at a total annual
amount compatible with the project objective; the initial
amounts should be as stated in para. 3;
(b) assisting the contractors financially through adequate mobili-
zation advances (up to 25% of contract amount) and prompt and
regular progress payments; and
(c) assisting the contractors in equipment for execution of con-
tracts by helping in acquisition of spare parts and, in excep-
tional cases, by renting specialized equipment. In principle,
the contractors should own the necessary equipment, or should
hire equipment which is easily available.
E.       Reporting
16.      Three months after the arrival, the team-leader will submit an
Inception Report which will include background information and the current
status of construction industry, and the program for the first year of the CIU
operation. Thereafter, Quarterly Reports will be submitted 15 days after the
end of each calendar quarter. The first Quarterly Report will be due after
the first full calendar quarter of the Team services. These reports should
contain progress achieved and programs, with particular detail of the program
for the next quarter. Each Quarterly Report should include the statement of
project expenditures. At the end of the project period the consulting firm
will submit Final Report detailing the project progress, achievements and
recommendations for further action. All reports will be submitted in 8 copies
to the Chairman of HA and 2 copies to IDA.
July 1987
("7881I0D)



- 57 -
ANNEX 13
Attachment
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Domestic Contracting Industry
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
A.      POSITION:  Team Leader - Construction Management Specialist
Duration of Contract: 42 months
Duties                -   Responsible for technical assistance team's
performance to the Chairman of Highway Authority
(HA)
-   Coordinator of the technical assistance team and
head of the Construction Industry Unit (CIU)
-   Advisor to the HA Chairman
-   Prepares and implements programs of the CIU
-   Collaborates with the HA management
-   Coordinates cooperation of HA with other
institutions and agencies in the matters related
to construction industry
-   assist contractors in contract management and
work organization.
Qualifications        -   Master or Bachelor of Science, Civil engineering
- Highways Professional Qualification
Experience            -   Twenty years experience in highway design and
construction of which ten years in a con-
struction firm, including five years on con-
struction site and three years in executive
position. A minimum of five years experience in
Middle East.
Qualities             -   Good in administration and public relations
-   Familiar with procurement practices and
procedures
-   Good leader, organizer and manager.
Languages             -   Fluent in spoken and written English
-   Desirable working knowledge of Arabic



- 58 -
ANNEX 13
Attachment
Page 2 of 3
B.      POSITION:  Highway Engineer
Duration of contract: 40 months
Duties               -   Assists team leader in his duties
- Prepares bid documents for road contracts for
Yemeni contractors
-   Assists HA resident supervisor in control of
quality and quantity of work, and contract
administration
- Collaborates with the HA management in con-
tractors preselection, bid evaluation and
contract supervision
- Responsible for training and the direct
assistance to contractors (organization,
implementation, monitoring)
- Drafts proposals for improvement of contract
documents and regulatory instruments related to
construction industry
- advise contractors in cost accounting, billing
and pricing
Qualifications       -   Master or Bachelor of Science, Civil Engineering
- Highways Professional Qualification
Experience           -   Ten years experience in highway design and
construction of which five years in a
construction firm including two years in a
construction firm working in the Middle East.
- Good experience in accounting practices also
required
Languages            -   Fluent in spoken and written English.
- Desirable working knowledge of Arabic.
C.      POSITION:  Mechanical Superintendent
Duration of Contract:  26 months
Duties               -   Assists contractors in management and
organization of maintenance and operation of
equipment and spare parts inventories
- Assists highway engineer in preparation and
delivery of training courses, lectures and
seminars
- Advises team leader in matters related to
equipment maintenance and operation
Qualifications       -   Mechanic certificate from an approved institution



- 59 -
ANNEX 13
Attachment
Page 3 of 3
Experience            -   Twenty years of practical experience in work-
shops and on construction sites dealings with
maintenance, repairs and operation of civil
engineering equipment, of which ten years in a
construction firm and five years in Middle East.
Qualities             -   Practical knowledge of equipment maintenance
operation and repairs, spare parts management,
monitoring of equipment performance and costs.
Easy approach to and relations with people,
capability to instruct and train.
Languages                  -   Knowledge of spoken and written English.
-   Desirable working knowledge of Arabic
7 788 I D)



YEMEN ARAB REPURLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL R£PORT
SANA A-HODEIDAH RMM1 REHABILITATIOU PROJECT
Road Maintenance Eaui1mqnt List
HA maintenance equipment requirements are estimated at 987 units: 901 units are presently available, 249 of ther in need of replacement. Details of needs
of equipment, spare. parts, tools and materials, and of those to be procured under the proposed project are given below:
_            ffi               C                                                      E                  I                1a fl
Weeding
Replacement on                                         Proposed Under    Included Uinder
Require-    Population    Age/Condition        Total Qty to    Proposed Under    Fourth "isixay -  Proposed High-           Qty
Nomenclature                    ment       April L987    tthrouph  1221L be procured            Arab FLad           Prntiect         wary Ptiect        Unc ne
Bulldozers 30-320 H.P.              20           19                 11                 12               -                  -                  4                 a
Bulldozers 200-220 H.P.             20           20                  7                  7               -                  -                  2                 S
Bulldo2ers 150-170 H.P.             30           30                 12                 12               -                  -                  -                12
Bulldozers 100-120 H.P.             12           12                  5                  S               -                  -                  -                 S
Wheel Loaders 2.214'                40           35                  14                19               -                  -                  5                14
Dozer Shovels 160 H.P.              10           10                  6                 6                2                  -                  2                 2
Misc. Loaders/Backhoes               6            6                  2                  2               -                  -                  2                 -
Graders 110 to 180 HP               60           Si                 19                 28               -                  S                  -                23
Tandem Rollers 8T-17T               38           38                 14                 14               -                  -                  4                10
Pneumatic Rollers                    S            s                  -                  -                                                     - 
Misc. Rollers & Plate Comp.         24           16                  4                 12               8                  -                  -                 4
Compressors (170-250 CFN)           30           30                  -                  -               -                  -                  --
Wagon Drills with Compressors        5            3                   -                 2               -                  -                  -                 2
Marking machines                    12            9                   -                 3                        -                            -                 3
Pavers/Finishers                     9            S                  -                 4                -                  -                  2                 2
Chipspreaders 8 Attachments          4            4                  2                  2               -                  -                  -                 2                     0
Sweepers                             a            3                  1                  6               -                  4                  -                 2
Asphalt Patch Nin Units              8            a                  -                  -               -                  -                  --
Asphalt Heaters u/sprayers          16           16                  5                  S               4                                                       1
Asphalt Plants                       2            2                  -                  -               -                  -                  --
Asphalt Carriers                    11           11                  7                  7               -                  -                  -                 7
Asphalt Cutters                     10            1                  -                 9                4                                                       5
Truck - Cranes                       7            7                   1                 1               -                  -                  -
Mobile Workshops                     6            6                  2                  2               -                  -                  -                 2
Grease - Trucks                     10           10                  3                  3                        -                            -                 3
Truck-Tractor w/Trailers             8            8                  S                  S               -                  -                  2                 3
Water-Tank Trucks                   44           44                  16                16               -                  -                  -                16
Petrol/Diesel Tank Trucks           19           19                  S                  S               -                                     _                 S
Dunp Trucks/Cargo Trucks           122          122                 20                 20               -                  -                  -                20
Gensets (Various Cap)               S4           54                 19                 19               -                  -                  -                19
Fork-Lift Trucks                     6            6                  -                 -                -                  -                  --
Welding Sets                        20           20                   -                 -               -                  -                  --
Concrete Mixers                      9            9                  7                  7               -                  -                  -                 7
Crushing/Screening/Uase
Mmx Plants                         10           10                  S                  5               -                                     -                 s
Petrol Dispensing Pumps             12            9                  3                  6               -                  _                  -                 6
Misc. Water Pumps                   25           21                  4                                  -                  -                  -                 8
Misc.  ml1  Compressors             15           IS                  -                  -               _                  _                  _                 -
Cars/Light Vehicles Inl. 
pick-upS etc.)                    220          207                 SO                63               -                   -                                   63                  0 
Site Dumpers                       24           nil                ail                2Q               A _-                                                   _..J.
Total               987          901                249               33S              26                   9                 23               277                  o'
whee"ed                                       =2                                                                                           =2
-.v MC   (15st.,



- 61 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Items To Be Procured Under the Proposed Project
Item                               Qty_       Unit Price    Total Price
Bulldozers 320 HP w/spares                   4         200,000          800,000
Bulldozers 220 HP w/spares                   2         150,000          300,000
Wheel loaders 2.2 m3 w/spares                5          75,000          375,000
Tandem Vib. Rollers w/spares                 4          50,000          200,000
Wheeled-Dozers w/spares                      2          75,000          150,000
Loader-Backhoe w/spares                      2          60,000          120,000
Asphalt Pavers (78hp) w/spares               2         100,000          200,000
Truck-tractor & trailers w/spares            2         100,000          200,000
Ferrous/Non-ferrous material for
maintenance workshop                     1 lot        40,000          40,000
Surveying instruments for
maintenance work                         1 lot        15,000           15,000
Laboratory equipment & supplies            1 lot        30,000           30,000
Thermoplastic road marking material
(white & yellow)                         70 MT        1,000           70,000
Glass beads                                10 MT           800/T          8,000
Materials for mfg. traffic signs           1 lot        52,000           52,000
Tools & spare parts for various
maintenance equipment                                   -             300,000
Misc. maintenance materials                                              40,000
Total       2,900,000
Source: HA
July 1987
(788 I D)



- 62 -                   ANNEX 15
-:~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  x
f- l IF 1,1'i
=  _          ~          I_______   I-
Gi i                _ _ _   _ _    _ _ _  _   _ _            S
tY ~~__ i__   ____ -    I
_ _ _   -   *                          __; 
g - --1--- 1 = i;
i  2                          i ;}} 0t§it 
11111                         lIt



- 63 -
AHNEX I
Y1IEN ARAR REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANAIA HODEIDA4 BOAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices to be covered in Progress Regorts
Actual as %      Reasons (if any) Actions to b
Protect Comoonent                    Estimated      Actual    of Estimated        for Oifference       taken
I.  Road Construction Works
0I)    Contract award (date)
(ii)    Earthworks completed (m3)
(iii)   Orainage structures, culverts (units)
(iv)    Sub-base and base completed Cm3)
(v)    Shoulders completed (km)
(vi)    Re1inforced cement concrete (m3)
(vii)   Resealing (kml
(viii) Asphalt concrete paving (km)
(ix)    Road signs (untts)
(x)    Road painting (km)
(xi)    Construction wo'k completed (date)
(xii)   Maintenance work completed (date)
(xiii) Completion certificate (date)
II.  Suoervision of Construction
(I)    Number of experts
(ii)    m/m for each expert
OMii)   final cost
-II. T/A to Domestic Contractors
Ci)    Number of expatriate experts
(ii)    Number of Yemeni counterparts
(iii)   m/m for each expatriate expert
(iv)   mim for each Yameni counterpart
(v)    Number of training sessions and
duration for Yemeni counterparts
(vi)    Number of training sessions and
duration for contractors staff
(vii)   On-the-job training to contractors
(days)
(viii) Number of trainees (contractors)
(ix)    Number of Yemeni counterparts
replacing expatriate experts and
dates
(x)    Final cost of expatriate experts
(xi)    Final cost of whole component
IV. Studies
(i)    Studies selected
(i)    Studies carried out
(iii)   m/m for each study
(iv)    Duration of each study
(v)    Final cost of each study
(vi)    Final cost of whole component
Source:  Appraisal Mission
July 1987



- 64 -
ANNEX 17
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year (FY)          Cumulative Disbursement              Percentage of
and Quarter                  at End of Quarter              Total Disbursement
FY 88
March 31, 1988                           1.8                               10
June 30, 1988                            2.4                               13
FY 89
September 30, 1988                       2.8                               16
December 31, 1988                        3.5                               19
March 31, 1989                           4.7                               26
June 30, 1989                            6.3                               35
FY 90
September 30, 1989                       8.3                               46
December 31, 1989                       10.9                               61
March 31, 1990                          13.2                               73
June 30, 1990                           14.8                               82
FY 91
September 30, 1990                      16.1                               89
December 31, 1990                       16.5                               92
March 31, 1991                          16.9                               94
June 30, 1991                           17.4                               97
FY 92
September 30, 1991                      17.7                               98
December 31, 1991                       18.0                              100
Source: Appraisal Mission Estimates
July 1987
(7 81 D



- 65 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA'A-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Characteristics of Existing Road
1.       The main characteristics of the existing road are:
Section   Length   Width   Horizontal Curvature   Roughness    Rise    Fall
km       m.            deg/km            mm/km        m/km    m/km
1        12.3      7.0              3.5              3600       28         5
2        49.2      7.0              3.2              3633        9        31
3        24.1      6.5            66.0              4705        32        12
4        45.4      6.5            358.0              5916        1        37
5        65.1      6.5           363.0               5284        1         7
6        21.2      6.5            101.0              4489        0         3
Manakhah
Spur       4.7      5.5           602.0               5100       64         0
The roughness measures were derived from bump integrator readings calibrated
against a section of newly constructed, untrafficked road with a roughness of
2,000 mm/km which is the roughness level base used in the vehicle operating
cost calculations in the HMP. The results were checked against the Transport
and Road Reserach Laboratory's (UK) guidelines which give average values for
roughness for standard types of road (TRRL Laboratory Report No. 723, 1976).
Proposed Improvements
2.       These, which are described in greater detail in the consultant's
report (Annex 1), have three main components:
-    drainage and related works designed to protect the existing road
from major local failure;
-    works to strenghthen and improve the running surface of the
pavement; and



- 66 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 5
works designed to improve safety.
Two possible design lives of 10 and 15 years have been considered, but only
the 10 year option has been retained for the economic analysis. The cor-
responding capital cost estimates (November 1986 economic costs) are:
Section           Total Cost             Cost per km          Cost/km US$
(YR million)           (YR million)            (US$)
1                 11.7                     0.95               118,750
2                43.9                      0.89               111,250
3                40.6                      1.68               210,000
4                 85.6                     1.88               235,000
5                111.5                     1.71               213,750
6                 24.8                     1.17               146,250
Manakhah Spur        5.3                     1.13               141,250
Construction has been assumed to be spread equally over a three year period
and a 40% residual value has been assumed at the end of the evaluation period.
In addition, a surface dressing has been estimated to be required in 1994
again spread over three years and costing YR 24 million.
Traffic
3.       The weighted average annual growth rate for traffic on this road has
been assumed at 4.57* and this has been applied to 1985 traffic flows adjusted
to take account of:
(a)  an estimated 12% diversion of traffic to the new Bajil to Mabar
road (Km 63.7); and
(b) an increase in the number of heavy two and three axle vehicles
as a consequence of the strict enforcement of vehicle axle load
legislation.
C.   reduction in oil traffic following opening of Safir refinery and
oil pipeline.
Based upon this, the forecast traffic flows for 1989 and 2003 are:



- 67 -
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 5
Buses   2 Axle    3 Axle   4 Axle
Road Section      Light Vehicles      1989    Trucks    Trucks   Trucks    Total
Hodeidah - km 16        7501           114    1975        1886       37       11513
Km 16 - Bajil           3529           178    1335        1301       24        6367
Bajil - Sana'a          1246            12      640       905         8        2815
Manakhah Spur            530             3      152          3        1         689
2003
Hodeidah - km 16       13891           211    3658       3493        68       21322
Km 16 - Bajil           5635           330    2472       2410        44       11791
Bajil - Sana'a          2307            21    1186       1676        15        5205
Manakhah Spur            981             5      282          5        2        1276
It is clear from these figures that the section from Hodeidah to km 16 will
require dualling at some time during this period and plans to achieve this,
including land acquisition and utility relocation, should be put in hand at an
early stage.
Benefits of the Project
4.       The benefits expected to be generated by the project are:
-    veh1icle operating cost savings through reduction in roughness
(primarily tyre wear, spare parts consumption, maintenance
labour and vehicle depreciations);
time savings primarily to commercial drivers and vehicle
occupants travelling on business;
road maintenance cost savings which assumes costs to be held
constant at YR 12.8 million p.a. after the project but without
the project to continue to increase in real terms at their
historic rate of 5% p.a.; and
road accident reductions which, however, owing to the lack of
adequate data have not been included in the economic analysis.
The detailed analysis of these benefit components is given in the consultant's
report (Annex 1) but a summary of the resultant reduction in vehicle operating
costs and time savings are given in the appendix to this Annex.



- 68 -
ANNEX 18
Page 4 of 5
5.       The resultant benefits for the individual sections (YR million) are:
Road Section               1989           1993           1998          2003
1                      7.2            8.4           10.5          13.1
2                     17.5           21.1           26.1          32.7
3                      9.9           11.9           14.7          18.3
4                     31.1           37.0           46.1          57.4
5                     35.7           42.5           53.0          66.1
6                      7.2            8.7           10.8          13.4
Manakhah Spur          0.4            0.6            0.7           0.7
Total             109.0          130.2          161.9         201.7
Benefits for intermediate years have been estimated using linear interpolation.
Estimated Economic Returns
6.       When these cost and benefit flows are applied to the costs associated
with a 10-year design life, the economic rate of return (ER) and the first
year rate of return (FYRR) for each section with and without vehicle passenger
time sav- ings are obtained . These are:
Road Section    Inclu. Passenger Time Savings        Exclu. Passenger Time Savings
ER (%)           FYRR (X)            ER (%)          FYRR (R )
1                43.5             49.5               43.5             48.8
2                31.3             31.9               30.9             31.2
3                21.2             19.8               21.2             20.2
4                31.4             31.4               31.2             31.1
5                26.7             26.0               26.5             25.8
6                27.7             26.8               27.4             26.5
Manakhah Spur       7.4              8.3                7.4              8.3
Although the Manakhah Spur road yields an ER of less than 10% the total cost
is only about YR 5.6 million which would probably be much higher if it were to
be upgraded at a later date as a separate contract.  The overall ER is about
29% which is satisfactory, and the application of sensitivity tests allowing
for changes in traffic forecasts and construction and maintenance costs gives
the following results:



- 69 -
ANNEX 18
Page 5 of 5
Traffic Forecasts as a %               Construction and Maintenance Costs
of Estimates                               as a % of Estimates
80%        100%         120%
90%                                 30          26           22
100%                                 34          29           24
110%                                 36          31           26
In no case does the ER fall below 22%.  Excluding the estimated 40% residual
valve of the road only reduces the ER to 28%.
July 1987
( 788 I D)



- 70 -                                 ANX"
Appendtx
YEMEN ARA B RPUBLIC                             Apni
STAFF APPRAISAL REPgRT
SANA'A HQDEIDAH ROAD REHABILITATIOH PROJECT
Reductions in Daily Vehicle Operating Costs
and Time Savings
(YR per 1000 vehicles)
Cars & j/                                      2 Axle Trucks         3 Axle       4 Axle
Other LV              RUi a/                  Light      Heav        Trucks       Trucks
a) SetSor, 1
(12.3 km)
VOC Saving/km            (86.3)                (82.4)                  (88.4)   (183.2)    (241.8)       (286.2)
VOC Saving/Section    1.061                  1,014                   1,087      2.253      2,974        3,520
Time Saving               60        (33)    1.225        (233)         357        487        4A7          ,437
Total Saving           1,121    (1,094)    2,239       (1.247)       1.444      2.740      3,461        4.007
b) Sectton 2
((49.2 km)
VOC Saving/km             88.5                  84.9                    91.2      188.8       249.1       294.8
VOC Saving/Section    4,354                 4,177                    4,487      9,289      12,256      14.504
Time Saving              252       (139)    5.055        (963)       1.486      2l.0       2.017        2.017
Total Saving           4.606    (4.493)    9.232       (5.140)       5,973    11.306      14.273       16,521
c) Section 3
(24.1 km)
VOC Saving/km            186.8                 189.2                   214.8      433.8       559.0       662.0
VOC Saving/Section    4,502                 4,560                    5.177    10,455      13,472       14,954
Time Saving              240       (134)    7.411      (5,140)       2.002      2.s7       2.5?9        2.579
Total Saving           4,742    (4.636)   11,971       (5.972)       7,179    13.034      16,051       18.533
d) Section-4
(45.4 km)
VOC Saving/km            339.9                 316.5                   354.6      725.4      967.0      1,125.1
VOC Saving/Section   15,431                14,369                   16,099    32.933      43,902       51.080
Time Saving              964       (526)   14.749      (2,809)       4.651    6i.03        6.037        6037
Total Saving          16.395   (15,957)   29,118    (17.178)        20,750    38,970      49.939       57.117
e) Section 5
(65.1 km)
VOC Saving/km            254.9                 250.7                   284.9      576.7      751.0        884.1
VOC Saving/Section   16,594                16,321                   18,547    37,543      48,890       57.555
Time Saving            1.382       (755)   17.128      (3,262)       6.670     8.6S7      8.657         8.6
Total Saving          17,976   (17,349)   33.449    (19,583)        25,217    46.200      57.547       66,212
f) Section 6
(21.2 km)
VOC Saving/km            165.0                 165.0                   186.5      378.1      489.4        578.7
VOC Saving/Section    3,498                 3,517                    3,954      8.016     10.375       12,268
Time Saving              164        (92)    1.929        (307)         894      1.472      1.472        1,47
Total Saving           3,662    (3,590)    5.446       (3,824)       4,848     9,488      11,847       13,740
g) Manakhab Spur
(4.7 km)
VOC Saving/km            230.5                 231.5                   264.7      521.9      688.2        813.9
VOC Saving/Section    1,G83                  1.088                   1,244      2,453      3.235        3.825
Time Saving              160        (86)    3.738        (712)       i.032      1.442      1.442        1.442
Total Saving           1,243    (1,169)    4,826       (1,800)       2,276      3.895      4,677        5,267
A/ Note: Figures in brackets exclude passenger time benefits.
Source: Consultants' estimate
(78S1O)



w-S   >F1_________
l A~~lI
I                          m                l
X             I                           IIl
{ S ~~- I - lX



YEMEN ARAB REPUBUC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SANA-HODEIDAH ROAD REHABILJTATION PROJECT
HA ORGANIZATION CHART
________________________~ ~ ~  CtJS LSV                 ____ ____ ___
r   ,   ,                         W     ---    ,             .~~~~~--   --
SCI4ICIS    COI*4 UEV     CMIEV       tRAIC          CNICV 3N~                         I EI       N EP XP CRA7E                                     E
DIVISION                I          ,                  O,FICER                                 STOR"A                I
LABORATORY||SRE l
SOURCE HA                                                                     A
JuOURy Ea                                                                                                                                       wow sc*-310027



I{AP SECTION
MAP SECTION
I



IBRD 1''R09R
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC              IBD19R
SAUDI ARABIA                                       SANA'A - HODEIDAH
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
TRANSPORT NETWORK
Project Components
-<#                    4                                          km  Road with Kilometer Distonces from Hodeldoh
Flood Damaged Rood Sctions to bh Rehabilitated
i|   Flood Damaged Bridges to be Rehabilitated
\  S  At A   C) A    H                 -                       First Through Fourth Highwoy Proiecti
<   t_>dab           /                          -     Roods Constructed
Fifth Highway Project ond Morib4afir Road
\-\°     --   Poved Roads Under Construction
Other Roods
Other Roods Under Rehabilitation
- 2   w\   'Principal Geovel Roods
*   National Copitals
O   Cities, Towns and Villages
H   A  J  JA                                                    4. Mta  in Ports
*-%  Internotional Airports
-   Province Boundaries
Internationol Boundaries
St ~      t"
! ~     ~~~~~                                     ~~~~~                                                a    25  sot'                 so
\^tSti       _                   |            f  M~~ARIB                          --^ J0t
160 k~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~IE
/\~~~~~~~~~~~~h
i 1 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bPd? >b m                                                           w.wC.wwi ._ , 
,/%'tSSi- A;iN J d t-0 .-.
Al 96011111,                                                             U     nb
r                         J                 B E-t\D  A  !
Al                                                                                               iPM       10B*
8 c<\] > ~~PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBlIC OF2 YEMEN
Ou *;7
l w~~~~KILOMMSAti
s t H I O P I A                                                                                            0 
/    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~AIVLES
/DJ1801iTI                                                                                 *     z* r s"              M~~
u MiS i SW_ -_- g    R4|v
/                                                               15b5wdw5tatS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*r_d_~~~~O



