Report No. PIC793
Project Name              Korea-Financial Intermediation Project (FIP)
Region                    East Asia & Pacific
Sector                   Financial System Development
Project ID                KRPA4172
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Finance
Yong-Duk KIM
Director
Economic Cooperation Bureau
Gwacheon, Republic of Korea
Tel: (82-2) 503-9274
Fax: (82-2) 503-9324
Date prepared             January 1994
Board date                December 23, 1993
Objectives
1.   The main objectives of the loan are to:
(a) support the Government of Korea (GOK) in its program for
accelerating deregulation of the financial system;
(b) support the institution building programs of three
participating financial institutions (PFIs): the Industrial
Bank of Korea (IBK), the Citizens National Bank (CNB), and the
Korea Technology Banking Corporation (KTBC);
(c) provide long-term credits to eligible private manufacturing
enterprises, mainly small and medium enterprises, through the
PFIs; and
(d) improve the technical capabilities of the professionals in the
financial sector and government organizations responsible for
financial sector policies through training and technical
assistance programs to be managed by the Korea Banking
Institute (KBI).
Description
2.   The vehicle that will be used by the Bank to address financial
sector policies in Korea is the proposed FIP. The Bank loan will
consist of a credit component of about US$94 million equivalent through
the PFIs for private sector lending and a training and technical
assistance component of US$6 million equivalent. A US dollar single
currency loan will be made to the GOK which will relend to the three
PFIs in US dollars at the standard IBRD variable rate (LIBOR-based) plus
an administrative fee of 0.05% (5 basis points). The PFIs would relend
the funds in US dollars to sub-borrowers with prospective earnings in
foreign exchange at the prevailing six-month US dollar LIBOR rate plus
a spread to be determined by each PFI. The PFIs' subsidiary loans would
have maturities corresponding to the maturities of their subloans. Each
PFI is managed autonomously, is financially sound, and manages the risk



associated with the foreign currency compositions of their assets and
liabilities. Each investment project will be subject to a minimum
internal rate of return of 15%-. Each investment project will also have
to be in full compliance with the environmental regulations prevailing
in Korea.
The proposed technical assistance component of the project would
support Korea in developing skills that would be needed to meet the
structural changes in the financial sector that are envisaged under the
country's economic plan. The technical assistance component would aim
at:
(a) providing a training program for Korean bankers designed to
meet the challenges of a liberalized and internationalized
financial sector;
(b) increasing the quality of KBI's in-house training service and
facilities by improving instructional materials and curriculum
design, upgrading of administrative and teaching staff, and
improving the evaluation of training schemes; and
(c) providing overseas training and short-term professional
courses abroad to about 48 officials of the Ministry of
Finance and other economic ministries, and short-term
professional courses suitable for higher level government
staff.
Environmental Aspects
4.   Environmental assessment Category B.   Since the proposed project is
a financial intermediary loan, it will involve financing small and
medium enterprises. Some of the proposed subprojects may adversely
affect the environment unless appropriate safeguards are built in. The
impact on the environment will depend on the type of investment projects
to be financed under the proposed loan. The PFI will be required to
ensure that each investment project financed under the proposed loan is
in full compliance with the environmental regulations in Korea. Loan
agreements between the PFIs and sub-borrowers will stipulate that sub-
borrowers must comply with the prevailing regulations in Korea. The
PFIs will require the sub-borrower to carry out an environmental
assessment with the assistance of consultants for investment in projects
or areas which are considered environmentally sensitive by the Korean
authorities. The PFIs will also appoint a loan officer as a resource
person on the environmental aspects. An understanding was reached that
KBI will offer courses (3-5 days) on the environment for loan officers
of financial institutions in 1994.
Implementation
5.   The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Finance, the
PFIs, and KBI.
6.   The PFIs will be subject to operational and financial criteria.
Eligibility criteria for CNB and IBK will include:
- 2 -



(a) capital adequacy requirement;
(b) approval of a corporate strategy statement;
(c) presentation of a two year training program in project
finance; and
(d) an audit by independent external auditors in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.
Eligibility criteria for KTBC will include:
(a) a timetable for privatization;
(b) approval by the Bank of its business plan and corporate
strategy;
(c) an audit by an independent external auditor in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; and
(d) a maximum debt/equity ratio of 6:1 and a minimum debt service
coverage ratio of 1.5.
Cost and Financing
7.   Project costs are estimated at US$0 million, of which the Bank
would finance US$100 million. The credit component would constitute
US$241 million, of which $94 million would be financed by the Bank. The
technical assistance component amount to US$9 million, of which $6
million would be financed by the Bank.
8.   For goods, works and services financed by the participating
financial institutions (CNB, IBK and KTBC), the Bank would disburse 100t
against eligible foreign expenditures, and 70t against local
expenditures.   For technical assistance, the Bank would disburse 100t
against eligible foreign expenditures, and 90t against local
expenditures.
Contact Point :      Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-3-



