Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19950
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P004172
L/C NUMBER: 36890
December 23, 1999
FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT UNIT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 10, 1999)
Currency Unit = Korean Won (W)
WI-US$ 0.0009
US$ I.00 = WI 124.50
FISCAL YEAR
FY94 FY99
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALM           Asset Liability Management
BOK           Bank of Korea
CNB           Citizens National Bank
CD            Certificates of Deposit
CP            Commercial Paper
FILP          Financial Intermediation Loan Project
FSC           Financial Supervisory Commission
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
FSS           Financial Supervisory Services
FYNEP         Five-year New Economy Plan
GOK           Government of Korea
IBK           Industrial Bank of Korea
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDP           Institutional Development Plan
IFRR          Internal Financial Rate of Return
KAMCO         Korea Asset Management Corporation
KB            Kookmin Bank
KBI           Korea Banking Institute
KCGF          Korea Credit Guarantee Fund
KDB           Korea Development Bank
KLCB          Korea Long Term Credit Bank
KRW           Korean Won
KSE           Korea Stock Exchange
KTB           Korea Technology Banking Corporation
LOC           Line of Credit
MOFE          Ministry of Finance and Economy
MOST          Ministry of Science and Technology
MSB           Monetary Stabilization Bonds
NBFI          Non-Bank Financial Institution
NCB           Nationwide Commercial Bank
NFYEP         New Five Year Economic Plan
NPL           Non-Performing Loan
OECD          Organization for Economic Corporation and Development
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PFI           Participating Financial Institution
RP            Repurchase Agreements
ROK           Republic of Korea
SAL           Sectoral Adjustmnent Loan
SME           Small and Medium Enterprise
TA            Technical Assistance
W             Won
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director:    Sri-Ram Aiyer
Sector Manager/Director:   Jacques Loubert
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Xiaofeng Hua



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal.Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  18
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                          25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authoiization.






Project ID: P004172                                       Project Name: FINCL INTERMEDIATION
Team Leader: Xiaofeng Hua                                 TL Unit: EASFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. 12/23/99 10:42:43 AM
December 21, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: FINCL INTERMEDIATION                              L/CNumber: 36890
Country/Department: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF                                   Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/27/92                                Effective: 04/15/94
Appraisal:  07/04/93                                  MTR:
Approval:  12/23/93                                Closing: 06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: KOREA GOVERNMENT/'MOFE, KBI, IBK, KB, and KTB
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Michel Severino                      Gautam Kaji (EAPVP)
Country Manager:     M.G. Sri-Ram Aiyer                         Calliston Madavo (EAI DR)
Sector Manager:      Jacques Loubert                            Vineet Nayyar (EAl IE)
Team Leader at ICR:   Xiaofeng Hua                              Ismail Dalla (EAIIE)
ICR Primary Author:   Zafar Khan; Xiaofeng Hua;
Dae-Ki Kim
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)                    ICR
Quality at Entry.         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)    support the Government of Korea's (GOK's) program for accelerating deregulation of
financial system;
(b)    support the institutional building program of three participating financial institutions
(PFIs): Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK), Kookmin Bank (KB-whose original name was the Citizen
National Bank), and Korea Technology Banking Corporation (KTB);
(c)    provide long-term credits to eligible private manufacturing enterprises, mainly small- and
medium enterprises (SMEs), through the PFIs; and
(d)   improve technical capabilities of the professionals in the financial sectors and government
organizations responsible for financial sector policies through training and technical assistance
programs to be managed by Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) for government officials
and Korea Banking Institute (KBI) for bankers.
In 1993, GOK embarked on a Five-year New Economy Plan (FYNEP) which envisaged a wide
range of reforms to transform the traditionally government-controlled Korean economy to a market-based
economy. Financial sector deregulation program was a core element among the reforms. The main agenda
of the program was on deregulating interest rates to foster the development of money and capital markets
by moving from direct to indirect controls, gradually phasing out of policy loans by transferring the subsidy
element to the budget, liberalizing the capital account, and strengthening the supervision and prudential
control of financial institutions to ensure their soundness in the deregulated environment.
FYNEP also emphasized the role of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the further
development of Korea with the recognition that the current economic structure relying heavily on big
conglomerates (so-called chaebols) could not persist in a new environment ahead.
The Bank project, approved towards the end of 1993, had justified and timely objectives of
supporting the Government's program for the deregulation of financial sector, as well as developing SMEs
through institutional development of PFIs (see Section 4.1 for details).
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of a line of credit (LOC) of $94 million and a technical assistance (TA) of $6
million. The LOC was to be onlent to private sector enterprises in directly/indirectly export industries
through three PFIs. The PFIs were to onlend in US dollars at the prevailing six-month LIBOR plus a
spread to be determined by each PFI. Out of the TA component of $6 million, $3 million were to be
channeled to the KBI and the balance of $3 million to MOFE. The TA component was to assist Korea in
building human skills needed to respond to ongoing changes in the financial sector by strengthening
- 2 -



concerned government agencies and the KBI.
3.3 Revised Components:
A minor change was made by transferring $1 million of TA from KBI to MOFE for staff training.
3.4 Quality at Entry:
During its earlier operations in Korea, the Bank had supported financial sector reforms;
contributed to the development of industrial sector, particularly SMEs; provided LOCs to several PFIs,
including IBK, CNB (now KB) and KTBC (now KTB); and extended TA to KBI. The Bank's experience
with earlier loans was highly satisfactory and ICRs and audit reports confirmed it. Consequently, no
significant risks were foreseen at the time of project appraisal. It was rather seen as the final financial
sector operation by the Bank in Korea before its expected graduation from the Bank in 1995. The financial
crisis of 1997, however, changed the landscape drastically and the Bank had to make emergency loans to
Korea. The crisis also brought swift and drastic policy reforms, some of which were in the 1993 plans but
implementation had been slow.
The quality at entry of the project was satisfactory considering that it was consistent with the Bank
strategy and government priorities for the development of industrial and financial sectors. The project
could be considered a little complex because of its focus on policy initiatives in the financial sector,
onlending through three PFIs, and training programs involving MOFE and KBI. However, the project was
not much different in its design from similar operations undertaken by the Bank in many other countries,
including Korea. The Korea experience, in particular, had been very successful.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Financial Sector Reforms: Financial sector liberalization in Korea went through 3 stages. The
first stage was represented by the 1993 FYNEP. Most of the financial market liberalization measures of
the deregulation program were implemented during the 1993-97 period. The second stage began in January
1997, when a presidential advisory council on financial reform (Council) was organized to formulate policy
advises that would accelerate the deregulation of the financial system. The financial crisis of December
1997 ignited the third stage of financial liberalization. Dramatic changes were accomplished since then.
On the whole, financial sector reforms in Korea proceeded at a faster pace than called for under the
phased in approach outlined under the project. By early 1997, the main developments in the financial
sector were as follows:
(a) All commercial bank loans were free of interest rate controls as were the other financial market
instruments. Interest rates on deposits were also freed, except for some short-term deposit such as
demand deposit and money market accounts. As a result the share of deregulated deposits rose to
82% in 1996 from 46% in 1993. New issues of government bonds, monetary stabilization bonds
(MSBs), and corporate securities increased rapidly as interest rates paid on these securities were
deregulated.
(b) Directed credits for the implementation of specific government policies were substantially
decreased from 22% of total credit in 1993 to 1.3% in 1996. Phasing out of these policy loans was
- 3 -



realized through (i) abolishing the automatic and unlimited rediscounting system for certain
directed bank credits at the central bank; (ii) transferring policy loans for the fragile sectors (e.g.
agriculture, SMEs) from bank balance sheet to government budget; and (iii) suspending new
injections into specialized funds such as Energy Saving Facility Fund, Defense Industry Fund, etc.,
which were set up for policy purposes.
(c) To enhance autonomy of commercial banks GOK decided not to interfere with nomination of
bank presidents. In 1993, the Office of Bank Supervision (now FSC) established a procedure
whereby a bank's chairman would be elected by a committee consisting of representatives of
shareholders, corporate clients, general customers and ex-bank presidents. In January 1997 the
composition of this committee was changed to non-standing directors of the board.
(d) Capital account opening was substantial if measured against the controls existed in the early
1990s. GOK increased the exchange rate band from 1 percent in 1993 to 2.25 percent in 1999 in
either direction. Measures were also taken to comply with the OECD code of capital account
liberalization. Foreign purchases of Korean Won denominated bonds were being gradually
liberalized. Actions were also taken to permit greater foreign investments by specialized entities
(e.g. foreign investment trust companies). Domestic companies participating in
government-designated infrastructure projects were allowed to borrow from foreign lenders.
Despite the impressive record of financial sector liberalization, the remaining agenda at the
beginning of 1997 appeared to be substantial and the financial system was considered fragile. The overall
condition of the banks was weak, and the infrastructure supporting the financial system in certain key areas
fell short of international best practices. Financial system supervision and regulation, albeit improving,
was not keeping pace with the liberalization process. Market participants questioned the credibility of the
prudential regulations and supervision by MOFE and BOK. Finally, little systematic contingency planning
was undertaken to deal with the possibility of increased number of banks that might fail as liberalization
proceeded and foreign competition in the provision of financial services intensified.
In order to address the above problems, GOK initiated, in early 1997, another major reform
program to overhaul the financial system by setting up a presidential advisory council on financial reform
(Council) representing market participants and research institutes. The Council put forward a wide range
of measures that aimed at fostering the competitiveness of the financial market while reinforcing the safety
of the financial system. They included adoption of indirect monetary management system on the basis of
market forces, expansion of financial institutions' service territories, consolidation of supervisory
functions, ensuring of the independence of the Bank of Korea (BOK), and introduction of a system of credit
ceilings for inter-linked business groups. The Council was also going to deliberate on long-term measures
relating to ownership of banks, introduction of financial holding companies and universal banking.
While the above initiatives were being developed and implemented, Korea was hit by a financial
crisis in October 1997. A number of corporate failures undermined investors' confidence. The exchange
rate and the stock market declined dramatically. The traditional high indebtedness of Korean corporations,
high real interest rates (introduced to defend the exchange rate), and liquidity constraints, led to a large
number of business failures. This, in turn, led to deterioration in quality of banks' loan portfolio and
accumulation of loan losses. The depth and severity of the crisis prompted GOK to embark on a more
fundamental reform of the economy, including the financial sector, than was earlier envisioned.
Important financial sector reforms introduced by the Government since the advent of the crisis are
mainly comprised of: (i) the resolution of weak financial institutions (ii) the strengthening of supervision
-4 -



and regulation, and (iii) the opening of domestic financial market, and include:
(a)    consolidation of financial institutions supervision responsibilities into one body, i.e.,
Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) under the Financial Supervisory Commission (FSC);
(b)    greater independence of the central bank in setting monetary policy through the amendment
of the BOK Act;
(c)    purchase of non-performing loans of commercial banks, merchant banks, and specialized
financial institutions by the Korea Asset Management Corporation (KAMCO);
(d)    injection of fresh capital by the Government in two commercial banks to help meet capital
adequacy requirements, and hiring of outside experts to undertake audits and develop privatization
plans;
(e)    rehabilitation plans for all merchant banks, closure of 17 merchant banks, and the
establishment of a "bridge" merchant bank to pay off depositors and to dispose of assets of closed
banks;
(f)    intensive supervision, including the introduction of intemational standards such as BIS
norms, mark-to-market accounting and disclosure requirements of Intemational Accounting
Standards;
(g)    allowing foreign banks to acquire a higher equity stake in Korean banks, opening the
domestic bond market and money market instruments issued by non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs) to foreign investors; and
(h)    removing the limit on foreign investment in listed firms.
These initiatives have been high on GOK's reform agenda. All banks were required to report on
their capital adequacy position. Banks that did not meet the minimum capital adequacy requirement had to
submit plans for rehabilitation, including business plans, sources of new capital, and management and
ownership changes. At the same time, interest rates have been fully liberalized except for the bank demand
deposits, which account for 8% of the total deposits as of September 1999. Almost all policy loans have
been discontinued according to official reports, and capital account transactions have been partially
liberalized.
The regulatory framework has also been strengthened to conform more closely to intemational best
practices. In particular, changes have been made in the following dimensions: mark-to-market accounting,
disclosure of non-performing loans, asset classification criteria, and foreign exchange liquidity and
exposure criteria.
The achievement of policy objectives of the project would therefore be considered satisfactory
though it is recognized that the financial crisis of 1997 and the consequent role of the intemational financial
institutions contributed to the acceleration of reforms. The reform process is, however, to continue as the
agenda is not yet accomplished . Future emphasis would be on issues such as the excessive leverage of
domestic enterprises, resolution of any possible increase in non-performing loans, recapitalization of
banking institutions, resolution of NBFI problems, privatization of nationalized banks, disposal of existing
- 5-



and new bad assets of KAMCO, and removal of remaining constraints to competition in the financial
system.
Institutional Development of PFIs. There are three PFIs under the project IBK, KB, and KTB.
IBK was established in 1961 to provide development finance and banking services to SMEs. It had total
assets of W38,987 billion (US$32.3 billion) at the end of 1998. As a result of restructuring its staff size
decreased by 26.7 percent to 6,565 at the end of 1998. KB was established in 1963 to support low-income
consumers and SMEs. Its total assets were W70,485 billion (US$58.4 billion) at the end of 1998 and its
financial performance has been better than industry average in Korea. Despite its merger with the
Long-Term Credit Bank in December 1998, the total staff has decreased by 21 percent to 11,000. KTB
was established in 1981 and focuses on technology development by providing loans, equity investments and
venture capital financing to small start-up companies. It had total assets of W2,173 billion (US$1.8
billion) at the end of 1998 and a staff of about 125.
The main elements of the institutional development program of IBK and KB were the annual audit
by independent external auditors, compliance with the capital adequacy requirements, and a two-year
program for staff training to upgrade project appraisal capability. Those for KTB included annual
independent audit, a two-year training program, and compliance with the long term borrowing limits. In
addition to meeting the above requirements, KTB was to implement an agreed program for privatization,
EBK was expected to be partially privatized and KB fully privatized by the end of 1995. KB and KTB are
now fully privatized. On January 13, 1998, GOK amended the IBK Act to permit a doubling of its capital
base to W4 trillion, and injected Wl .8 trillion of additional capital to compensate for its huge losses after
the 1997 financial crisis. As a result, the government ownership, which had declined from 99.9 percent to
64.5 percent through over-the-counter public offering in 1995, increased to over 98 percent. It is, however,
consistent with Bank-Fund plan for the rehabilitation of banks in distress through increase in government
ownership in the first place and their subsequent privatization. Meanwhile, the government has no plans
for the privatization of IBK in the near future.
During the implementation period in 1994-98, IBK's auditor was KPMG San Tong Corp. in
1994-98; KB's was PriceWaterhouseCoopers Samil Account; and KTB's was PriceWaterhouseCoopers
Saedong Accounting and Consulting Corp. None of the PFIs has plan to change auditor in 1999. IBK and
KB are in compliance with the capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent since 1998 (IBK at 10.7 percent, KB at
1 1.0 percent as of June 1999). They failed to do so by January 1, 1996, the date for the compliance set in
the project agreements, due to some adverse market changes which were not anticipated at the time of
project negotiations.
The capital adequacy covenant does not apply to KTB because it is not governed by the General
Banking Act. KTB's debt/equity ratio was 26.5:1 at the end of 1998, well above the limit of 6:1 under the
Project Agreement. The Agreement stipulated that KTB shall not incur long-term debt if the ratio was
more than 6: 1. The Agreement also stipulated that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, KTB shall
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of KTB shall be at least one and one-half time the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of KTB (Section 3.03, KTB Project Agreement). KTB did not meet
the above conditions in 1995-98, but has not borrowed long-term (more than one year) in 1999. Its total
long-term liabilities (borrowings and debentures) decreased by 20 percent from W2,050 billion on
December 31, 1998 to W1,638 billion on August 31, 1999.
The PFIs have also implemented staff training programs both in-house and outside, including
training arranged by KBI. The total number of persons trained and the cost of training of the three PFIs in
1994-98 are given in the following table:
- 6 -



PFIs Training Programs:
Total Cost  Staff/Times   Average Cost (W,
(W, mlln)      (2)            mlin)
(1)                        (1)/(2)
IBK     15,000       5,239            2.86
KB      21,659      60,302            0.36
KTB       765         619             1.24
Source: PFIs
The training expenditure decreased in 1998 due to financial stringency and staff's preoccupation
with the aftermath of the crisis. The cuts by IBK were the deepest: training expenses dropped by almost 40
percent from those in 1997. However, KB and KTB managed to have a relatively large number of staff
trained compared to their total size of staff. The difference in the average cost of training might partly
explain different reactions of the PFIs in difficult times. The training was conducted in a number of areas
including financial risk analysis, international finance, financial analysis, accounting and income tax.
All three PFIs have been adversely affected by the financial crisis of 1997. As the table below
shows, IBK and KTB's loan portfolios declined and the portion of NPLs shot up. The 50 percent jump of
KB's total loans in 1998 was mainly due to the merger with the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLCB).
Otherwise KB's total loans grew by 16 percent in 1998 as compared to 22 percent in 1997. IBK and KTB
suffered losses in 1998, while KB's net income shrank by 30 percent from 1997. The banks reported that
increases in loan loss provisioning made according to the new prudential regulations were a cause to
smaller/negative net income. Borrower default or bankruptcy resulted from high interest rate, drastic Won
devaluation and dormant export markets also contributed to the poor financial performance of the PFIs in
1998-99.
PFIsfinancials:
1996   1997   1998  1999*
IBK                                   ____
Total Loans    18,106  20,703 19,454 23,471
(W, blln)
NPLs (%)        5.4    9.0   12.8   10.7
Net Income      32      -57   -1,353  N/A
(W, blln)
KB              _X _=
Total Loans    17,659  21,504 33,014 36,795
(W, blln)
NPLs (%)        3.1     4.2    7.9    7.1
Net Income      164    104    73    N/A
(W, blln)
KTB
Total Loans    N/A   2,274  1,390  1,226
(W, blln)
NPLs (%)       N/A    N/A    N/A    25
Net Income     18.6    2.4   -129   N/A
(W, bUln)     __
* as of June 30,1999. Source: PFIs
-7-



However, an analysis of PFIs financial statements for 1993-97 shows that rapid assets expansion
with much slower growth in net worth and net income also contributed to the poor performance of IBK and
KTB (Chapter 10, Additional Information). During the period of 1994-97, the average annual growth rate
of IBK's total assets was 19 percent, that of its net worth was -0.13 percent, and that of its net income was
-93 percent. The average annual growth rate of KTB's total assets was 39 percent, that of its net worth
was - 1 0 percent, and that of its net income was -24 percent in the same period. KB stood out as a much
better performer, with the average annual growth rate of total assets, net worth and net income at 23
percent, 39 percent and 17 percent. Indeed, KB was one of the best among Korean commercial banks. It
was noted that KB's large household clientele base might helped the bank in reducing credit risks. In a way
the bank benefited from the crisis as households moved deposits to it in a flight for quality.
Faced with the severe challenges, the PFIs have taken a number of steps to strengthen the risk
management system, accelerate the collection of loans, and adopt cost reduction programs, including
branch closures, and staff reduction. They now have a more flat organizational structure. They have sold
a portion of their non-performing loans to KAMCO, written off bad loans against provisions made in 1998,
asked for additional collateral from weak borrowers, rescheduled loans in case of temporary problems of
some borrowers, and issued subordinated debt in a bid to increase their Tier II capital. As a result, they all
anticipate profits of varying amounts in 1999. New loan approval procedures have been introduced and
new products and services are being launched and product-mix is being changed in case of KB and KTB.
KB has taken over the assets of Daedong Bank (a bank in trouble) and also merged with the Long Term
Credit Bank in December 1998. The transfer of government shares in KTB to a private corporation in
March 1999 has brought changes in the management team. The new team has brought extensive
experience in business and finance.
The original institutional development objectives of the project can be considered as largely met,
thanks to the GOK reform initiatives and the PFIs responses in the aftermath of the crisis of 1997.
However, the financial crisis has posed new challenges for the PFIs and they are taking necessary steps for
further institution building.
Provide Long-term Credits to SMEs: The credit line of $94 million under the Bank loan had to
be onlent through the PFIs to private sector enterprises, mainly those in the small- and medium-sized
categories. The original allocation was $30 million each for IBK and KB, and $34 million for KTB. Out
of the credit line, $30 million was used by IBK, $27.5 million by KB (it retained the balance of $2.5
million as reserves for unexpected loan losses), and $34 million by KTB. A total of 281 subprojects were
approved under the credit line. Most of the subloans were below $1 million and none above the free limit
of $2 million that would have required the Bank's prior approval. The average subloan size was $326,000,
indicating that SMEs were almost the exclusive beneficiaries of the loan. On the other hand, the Bank did
not get the opportunity to review any subloan prior to its approval because of the high free limit and, thus,
the Bank could not provide any advice on the quality of appraisal and measures for improvement.
The main beneficiaries in terms of manufacturing subsectors were machinery and equipment,
chemicals and textiles. The majority of loans were made for terms ranging from 3 to 5 years. All subloans
above $1 million required the calculation of FRR which was not to be less than 15 percent. KTB financed
5 such subloans but did not calculate the FRR before the subloans were made. The actual FRR upon the
completion of subprojects was 2-3 percent. IBK financed 2 subloans of $1-2 million each with an
estimated FRR of 15 percent before the subloans were made. Upon completion, one of these subloans had
an FRR of 13 percent while the other one went bankrupt. The PFIs performance in loan collection under
the Bank loan varied (see table below for subloan performance by the PFIs). As of June 30, 1999, out of
- 8 -



total approved amount, only $30.8 million was outstanding. Those classified as NPLs were $5.23 million
including write-offs of $2.4 million by IBK and KTB. The main causes of the losses were said to be
subborrower defaults resulted from counterpart bankruptcy, sudden KRW depreciation, and sharply
reduced sales. The project objective of providing long-term credit to private manufacturing enterprises
mainly in the SME sector, however, has been achieved to certain extent.
-9-



Subloan Profiles:
IBK              KB              KTB             Total
Subloans(#)                       107              115              59             281
Subloan amount (US$)           30,000,000       27,500,000      34,000,000      91,500,000
Average size (US$)              280,374          239,130          576,271         325,623
Maturity (%)*
< 3 yr                           --               20               4               7
3 - 5 yr                          11              55               86              52
> 5 yr                            89              25               10              41
Subloan outstanding (US$)      14,800,000       12,800,000       3,150,000      30,800,000
NPLs(%)                           18.2             3.1             67.6             17
Substandard                      4.7              3.1             47.3             8.4
Doubtful                         1.4               --              --             0.65
Loss                             12.2                             20.3             7.9
* % of total subloan value
Source: PFIs
Improvements in the Professional Skills: The initial loan amount allocated for the TA under the
loan was $6 million, of which $3 million was for the KBI training component and $3 million for the MOFE
training component. However, through the amendment of Loan Agreement in 1996, the amount of the
MOFE increased by $1 million to $4 million while that of the KBI decreased by $1 million to $2 million.
The actual disbursement of the KBI was $ 1.99 million and that of MOFE, $3.75 million. The balance was
cancelled at the closure of the loan account.
The KBI's program was completed in June 1997. During 1994-97 period, 401 trainees from 50
different financial institutions participated in 20 overseas training courses and seminars. The program
included risk management, foreign exchange dealings, asset/liability management, commercial banking
marketing, futures and options, etc., most of which were held in the United States. The KBI also held a
seminar on environmental protection in June 1997. The loan used by KBI has been reimbursed by
beneficiary institutions in Won and, because of the depreciation of Korean Won, there has been a foreign
exchange loss of approximately $600,000 as of Oct. 1999. It has been agreed at the board meeting of KBI
- 1 0 -



that the member institution would bear the foreign exchange loss by compensating KBI. KBI has deposited
the collected funds (Won) in bank accounts.
The MOFE technical assistance component mainly focused on the overseas study of the relevant
government officials. During the 1994-99 period, 62 government officials, of whom 48 were the staff from
the Ministry of Finance and Economy, were trained under this program. They were all sent to universities
in the United States, the U.K. and Japan for the 2-year study of economics, finance and other related areas.
Other ministries that participated in this training component included the Ministry of Government
Administration and the Ministry of Audit and Inspection.
The technical assistance has also been satisfactorily completed but a few areas need attention for
the future strengthening of KBI:
(a)    While overseas training courses/seminars may bring about international perspective on the
topics in question, sending over 400 trainees to 20 such courses/seminars seems to be less
cost-effective. Under the project, KBI was to engage the services of consultants to enhance the
quality of its own training programs. KBI did not make use of consultant services, although
improvements in the training programs were reported. It would be more desirable if KBI could
reconsider the use of international experts to further develop its training programs, so that it could
offer international standard courses/seminars to more Korean bankers at much lower costs.
(b)    KBI has to repay the Bank loan of $1.99 million to the Government over a 15-year period
including five years grace. It has recovered the loan amount from beneficiary institutions and the
funds are lying idle in bank accounts. This is not the best use of loan funds. It is recommended
that the funds be prepaid to the Government, which is the borrower of the Bank loan, with the
recovery of exchange losses by KBI.
(c)    KBI would make quick adjustment in its core curriculum. New training programs are
being added on a priority basis to respond to the banking sector's emerging needs for more relevant
expertise in the new post-crisis environment.
(d)    Although banks and KBI discuss training programs, banks should be encouraged to get
more actively involved in the preparation of KBI's training programs to make them more
responsive to their needs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
There were two main project components: a line of credit of $94 million and a TA component of $6
million for training of financial sector professionals. As discussed in the earlier sections, the
implementation of the above components were satisfactory. The related objectives of financial sector
reforms, PFIs institutional development, training of financial sector professionals, and supporting SME
development were largely achieved. On the other hand, it was recognized that some of the common
selection criteria of borrowers, such as the debt service coverage ratio and the loan/value ratio, were not
specified in the project agreements, except for the minimum FRR of 15% for subprojects of more than $1
million. As a result, the PFIs often financed subprojects with a very high leverage and it affected debt
servicing of some subborrowers after the crisis. In addition, all the subloans were below the free limit of
$2 million and therefore the Bank did not get a chance to review the quality of subprojects before the
subloans were extended. KBI reported improvements in its training program and core curriculum.
However, no specific benchmarks were established under the project to check the quality of the
- 1 1 -



improvements. KBI did not use the services of international banking experts.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Does not apply to a line of credit project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The PFIs were required to calculate FRR for all subprojects of $1 million and above to be financed
under the line of credit and the FRR had to be no less than 15 percent. IBK made two subloans of $1 to $2
million each, and the estimated FRR was exactly 15 percent before the subloans were extended. Upon
completion of subprojects, one of the subloans had a FRR of 13 percent, and the other went bankrupt.
KTB did not make FRR estimates for its seven subloans of above $1 million. Upon completion of
subprojects, the FFR was estimated between 2-3 percent.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a positive institutional development impact on the PFIs and the Banking Training
Institute as explained in Section 4.1.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of the govermnent and implementing agencies that affected the
project implementation was the financial crisis of 1997. A large number of enterprises suffered losses and
became bankrupt. As result, the quality of portfolio of the PFIs deteriorated, they had to make large
provisions for bad and doubtful debts, and IBK and KTB suffered losses. The slow progress in the
restructuring of the real sector before the crisis was a major factor that affected the PFIs financial position
and subloan performance. Highly risky operations financed by high leverage of Korean firms, especially
the Chaebols, almost brought the country to the edge of default in late 1997. It may, however, be noted
that the project itself had little negative impact of the crisis.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
It is noted that some of the critical banking reforms, such as the re-engineering of financial system
regulation and supervision, were lagging behind the liberalization pace until the financial crisis of 1997.
Real sector restructuring was even slower. Since 1998, in order to combat the negative impact of the
financial crisis and to improve the future performance of financial and corporate sectors, the government
has taken measures to strengthen prudential regulation, to enhance accounting transparency, to establish
management accountability, and to deregulate financial institutions. The government also injected
additional equity funds (Wl .8 trillion) in IBK and fully privatized KB and KTB. Sector reforms are still
continuing.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
IBK and KTB could have adopted a more prudent growth strategy that focused on efficiency rather
than size. The PFIs should also have paid more attention to the timely compliance with the legal and
financial covenants. Furthermore, the PFIs in general have limited information on the performance of
subprojects except for the debt servicing. However, as Section 4.1 points out, the PFIs are taking a series
- 12 -



of initiatives to address these institutional weaknesses. They are also revising or improving the
development strategy. IBK intends to maintain its dominant role in SME financing while upgrading its risk
management system and enhancing the in-house credit assessment program. It has also adopted an active
marketing strategy to attract more deposits. KB's recently restated long-term vision is to become a "super
leading bank" in terms of profitability, soundness and size. It will focus on maximizing the values for
shareholders, and providing premier services to customers. KTB plans to increase its equity investment
business in start-up technology firms, and gradually reduce the share of its lending operations. The
company, which is more of an NBFI than a commercial bank, has a edge in Korea's venture capital market.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The cost and financing estimates prepared at the time of project appraisal were only indicative
because the bulk of the loan was going to be used for onlending by the PFIs and they were going to estimate
the cost for each subproject at the time of their approval of a subloan. As a total of 281 subprojects-
many of very small size-were financed by the PFIs, it is difficult for them to collect and aggregate the
total estimated and actual cost and financing. The PFIs were, however, of the view that their subprojects
did not have significant cost overruns. There were no delays in implementation and disbursements under
the project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is likely. The government is committed to continue the financial and
corporate sector reforms, although significant progress has already been achieved. The PFIs are now better
structured, and have more prudent financial policies. They are also under tighter scrutiny of the public and
the supervision authorities. SMEs have been and will continue to be the main clientele base of the PFIs.
More recently the government has enhanced policy support to SMEs in view of the dismal performance of
many Chaebols. GOK has increased budgetary allocation to the SME credit guarantee fund, and has
imposed a system of credit ceilings on inter-linked groups. The project objectives will, therefore, continue
to be achieved during the life of the loan.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Restructuring of Financial Sector Financial sector reforms are a high government priority. The
highlights of this program are reported below.
FSS is monitoring all banks identified as undercapitalized. Specific capital adequacy targets have
been put into place for financial institutions. Institutions that do not attain the targets are subject to
immediate and automatic Prompt Corrective Action procedures.
Increasingly strict prudential regulations are being implemented to bring Korean banks closer to the
Basil Committee' Core Principles. Key changes include the introduction of forward-looking criteria in
defining loan classifications to reflect the debtor's ability to pay, rather than to rely on its past
performance or the loan collateral. Exposure limits and improved risk management regulations are also
being imposed to reduce the amount of total credit that can be extended to a single borrower.
The same regulations that apply to commercial banks will be extended to cover merchant banks. In
particular, merchant banks would adhere to the same accounting standards as commercial banks and adopt
the same loan classification, provisioning and capital adequacy computation rules.
- 13 -



NBFIs, particularly insurance and investment trust companies, also need urgent attention because
of their serious financial difficulties. The government would develop an effective supervisory framework
for the insurance industry and a strategy for restructuring and supervising the fund management industry.
Efforts in the privatization of nationalized banks has been focused on Korea First and Seoul Bank,
as it is a matter of urgency. The program coverage is expected to be extended to other banks over a longer
period. The government has also decided to fully liberalize the capital account transactions by 2000.
The restructuring of the corporate sector is essential for the success of the financial sector reform.
The guiding principles in this regard would be enhancement of management transparency, elimination of
cross guarantees, improvements in capital structure, and strengthened accountability of controlling
shareholders and management.
Financial sector restructuring is being monitored by the Bank in the context of its SAL operation
(1998), Technical Assistance lending (1998), Trust Fund support (1998), and Essential Technical
Assistance Program (1999). Main monitoring indicators are: resolution of NPLs, recapitalization of
banking institutions, resolution of NBFIs problems, disposal of bad loans by KAMCO, and further
restructuring of commercial banks.
Institutional Strengthening of the PFIs: The PFIs further institutional strengthening would
continue. This would be mainly achieved through:
v      Compliance with the newly enhanced prudential regulations, improvement in the
management appraisal system of financial institutions, strengthening supervision of risk
management, and improvement in supervision of foreign liquidity management.
*      Enhanced accounting transparency.
*      Establishment of management accountability system.
*      Further organizational restructuring.
*      Implementation of financially prudent policies.
*      More extensive staff training, particularly in the areas of new products and services,
project appraisal and supervision, risk management, and modern accounting and internal
auditing practices.
Monitoring indicators for the above actions would be the financial and operating performance of
the PFIs, particularly improvements in quality of loan portfolio, ROA and ROE, and increase in size of
assets (using 1998 as the base year); and compliance with capital adequacy ratio, for which the PFIs are
required to make public and report to FSS on a regular basis.
Assistance to SMEs:  The PFIs' assistance to SMEs would continue to increase as it is
consistent with their line of business. The government has also enhanced policy support to SMEs by
increasing budgetary allocation to the SME credit guarantee fund, and by imposing a system of credit
ceilings on single inter-linked groups. IBK would play the lead role in financing SMEs. In addition to
issuing bonds and receiving deposits, IBK has received $1.3 billion from Japan's EXIM Bank for lending
- 14 -



mainly to SMEs. The monitoring indicator would be the increase in PFIs' loans to SMEs, and in KTB's
case, in equity investments in SMEs, using 1998 as the base year.
Strengthening of KBI: KBI would consider to use Bank loan proceeds for further training
including hiring of consultants to enhance the quality of its own training programs. Alternatively, it would
prepay the loan to MOFE. It would upgrade its core curriculum to respond to the demand for new
expertise by the banking sector in the post-crisis environment. Banks would participate more actively in
preparation of KBI's training programs to make them more responsive to their needs. Monitoring indicators
would be: (a) shifts in the focus of KBI programs from certificate issuing courses to practical skills
training, including greater emphasis on case studies of risk management, project appraisal and supervision,
derivatives, foreign exchange transactions, and new products and services; (b) use of Bank loan proceeds
for additional training and hiring of consultants; and/or (c) prepayment of Bank loan proceeds to the
government after KBI recovers its exchange rate losses.
Future Monitoring of the Project: Future monitoring of the project should focus mainly on
reforms in the financial sector. This is already being done under Bank's post-financial crisis operations in
Korea and no separate arrangement is needed. The PFIs are expected to make further efforts in their
institutional development and, in view of more effective regulation and supervision by the government/FSS,
do not need any further direct monitoring by the Bank. Bank staff, however, should make one time visit to
KBI in mid-2000 to review the progress on monitoring indicators mentioned in the above paragraph. OED
may undertake the impact evaluation of the project together with other more recent financial sector
operations in Korea.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance in identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project supported sectoral reforms to which the government was committed. The
institutional development agenda and the support to promote SMEs were also appropriate. Nevertheless,
the Bank could have improved the policy impact of the project by agreeing with the government on
sequencing and timing of specific actions under the broad program for policy reforms during 1994-99
period. The Bank could also have assisted the government in preparing to address the downside effects of
financial sector liberalization. Obtaining government commitment to the effective enforcement of the
requirements for capital adequacy and sufficient loss provisioning might also enhance the implementation
of the PFIs institutional development. On the design of the line of credit component, the Bank should have
made a better assessment of potential size of subprojects and set conditions that would have allowed the
Bank to review a few selected subprojects before the PFIs' final approval. Detailed eligibility criteria for
subproject financing (e.g., limits on current ratio, debt/equity ratio, debt-service coverage, etc.) should have
been spelled out. It is also noted that the Bank staff did not prepare the performance indicators for judging
the achievement of objectives/output.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision performance was unsatisfactory. The number, frequency and staffing of the
missions were inadequate and internal record-keeping was not up to the standard. Performance indicators
(which were required for all projects under implementation) were missing. Very often supervision
missions' reports including Form 590s did not highlight problem areas. The section on compliance with
loan covenants was missing, and in general, non-compliance was not identified and reported. Project files
- 15 -



do not show whether staff reviewed a sample of subproject appraisals by the PFIs and procurement and
disbursement procedures during supervision missions. It has to be noted that there was frequent change of
task managers.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory mainly due to the poor quality of project
supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project preparation was satisfactory. The government had prepared appropriate plans for
financial sector reforms as part of its five-year economic planning process. Experienced PFIs were selected
for channeling Bank loan proceeds to SMEs in the private sector.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government carried out policy reforms beyond what was originally anticipated, although some
of core programs such as the strengthening of financial system supervision, were implemented much slower
in the earlier years of the project implementation, due to lack of political consensus. Reforms were
expedited and made more extensive after the financial crisis.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the PFIs implemented the project satisfactorily. The PFIs utilized the credit line in time
and financed a large number of SMEs. Two thirds of the subloans were already recovered. KB's subloans
outstanding are performing well, with 3 percent classified as substandard. The NPLs of IBK's subloan
outstanding were more or less at the same level as those of its overall portfolio, with 82 percent performing.
The share of NPLs in KTB's subloan outstanding doubled those of its total loans. However, 91 percent of
the subloans extended by KTB was recovered. One area that need further strengthening was the monitoring
by the head offices of IBK and KTB of the Bank loan utilization by their branches. The PFIs also need to
upgrade their project appraisal skills, including sales projection and FRR calculation.
The PFIs made efforts implementing the institutional development programs, which have been
intensified since 1998. However, the PFIs did not comply with the following legal/financial covenants, or
complied with delay:
(a)    Project agreements with the PFIs stipulated that annual audit reports will include the
opinion of auditors on the adequacy of loan loss provisions made by the PFI based on the quality of
the PFI's loan portfolio rather than on the level of such provision in prior years. Auditors did not
give their own opinion on adequacy of provisions, as they might not been requested to do so. It is
clear from subsequent developments that provisions of IBK and KTB were inadequate in earlier
years.
(b)    IBK and KB were required to have a capital adequacy ratio of not less than 8% by January
1, 1996. This requirement was met only in 1998.
(c)    Project agreements also required that subprojects shall have an internal financial rate of
- 16 -



return of not less than 15% for subloans of $1 million or more. Out of the seven subloans above
$1 million, five were made by KTB. However, KTB had not calculated the financial rate of return
before extending the subloans.
(d)    Project agreements with the PFIs required that they would employ a competent and
experienced engineer as a loan officer who would be responsible for the proper appraisal and
supervision of subprojects to ensure, inter alias, their compliance with appropriate environmental
standards and environmental requirements in Korea. None of the PFIs employed such an engineer,
as Korean banks usually rely on relevant government agencies to review and monitor compliance
with environmental standards and requirements.
(e)    The PFIs were required to lend to those enterprises that were engaged in the direct or
indirect export-manufacturing sector. An enterprise with the indirect export activity was the one,
which derived part of its sales revenues from the sale of intermediate goods to exporters or
provided service in connection with such manufactured products. KB made 115 subloans of which
15 were for direct export but it could not confirm that the remaining 100 subloans were all for
enterprises engaged in indirect export. It was, however, noted that, despite carrying foreign
exchange risk, KB's subborrowers did not have problems in debt-servicing.
(f)    As mentioned in Section 4.1 above, the Project Agreement with KTB stipulated that it
would not incur long-term debt if its debt/equity ratio exceeded 6:1 or its net revenues were less
than 1.5 times of the debt service requirement. A review of the KTB financial data from 1995 to
1998 shows that its debtlequity ratio was 11.8:1 in 1995, 8.3:1 in 1996, 9.4:1 in 1997, and 26.5:1
in 1998. KTB's net revenues in these years were also below the required target. KTB, however,
had new long-term borrowing in all these years. It informed the ICR mission in November 1999
that it is not borrowing long-term in 1999 and, therefore, is now in compliance with the Project
Agreement.
The compliance of the above terms and conditions would have helped in better appraisal and
supervision of subprojects and improvement in financial conditions of the PFIs. The Bank's inadequate
supervision, as well as delayed action or inaction on the part of the PFIs were responsible for the
above-mentioned lapses.
KBI provided training to a large number of Korean bankers. However, it failed to use international
banking experts to upgrade its training programs. It had emphasized a little too much on 2-4 weeks, ad hoc
type of overseas training, at the expense of more cost-effective local training under the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance rating of the Borrower is satisfactory because the project outcome was
largely successful, and the project objectives were achieved either substantially or modestly (see Annex 5).
The government may wish to look into the causes to the late or non-compliance by the PFIs with some of
the legal/financial covenants, so as to avoid similar problems under other on-going Bank projects. It may
also discuss with KBI on the options for improving its training programs.
- 17 -



8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)    The long-term solvency of financial institutions in a deregulated environment requires
prudential regulations, effective supervision, transparency in accounting and information systems,
and management accountability. Korea's experience in 1997-98 demonstrates that sometimes
these are difficult decisions for the governments to make but their absence can exacerbate the grave
situation when a financial crisis strikes. Therefore, in its policy dialogues with the governments,
the Bank should not only seek their commitment to deregulate financial systems, but also reach an
agreement with them on a detailed action plan with proper sequencing and timing. Such a plan
should take into consideration the prerequisites for rapid deregulation and its up-and down-side
implications. This process may or may not be linked with specific operations. In the case it is
directly linked, such as the project under review, the process would help to improve the quality at
entry and facilitate more effective monitoring of project implementation.
(b)    A large number of financial institutions in Bank borrower countries are not
well-experienced in selecting creditworthy subborrowers. In the case of Korea, banks' lending
decisions were often influenced by Chaebol or government directions. Weak financial
infrastructure in those countries also implies that the financial position and performance of banks
may be much worse than publicly reported.
(c)    Partly due to the problem mentioned above, the Bank has tried to build various
institutional development programs into its financial intermediary operations. The result has been
mixed, as shown by the differences in the performance of the three project PFIs. In large
economies, such as Korea, individual Bank operations usually do not have much leverage on the
overall sector structure and the business environment. Their imnpacts on the corporate culture and
banking practices of PFIs are at best limited. This is particularly true if PFIs are not ready to
make these changes, or when they operate in an environment which does not encourage such
changes.
(d)    Continuity in the task management of a project is essential, and changes should be avoided.
(e)    Regular supervision of projects is also essential. Supervision missions should be staffed
with an adequate number of staff with appropriate expertise and should spend sufficient time in the
field to cover all aspects of a project.
(f)    Finally, adequate budgetary allocation should be made for project supervision and
monitoring.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Below is the Borrower's evaluation report of project implementation prepared by MOFE.
- 18 -



Korea
Financial Intermediation Loan Project
Evaluation Report
Introduction
As a graduation program for Korea had been agreed upon between the Bank and GOK in
1993, both parties wanted to have an avenue for continuing dialogue on imnplementation of
financial sector reform. Therefore, the Bank and GOK agreed to implement FILP expecting that
the project should enable the Bank to participate in the process of GOK's financial sector reform
with its expertise in this area.
The World Bank (the Bank) and the Government of Korea (GOK) had being discussed on
the idea to implement Financial Intermediation Loan Project ("FILP") from 1991 in order to
support GOK's effort to accomplish financial sector reform. In order to evaluate the relevance of
the project and design the adequate project scheme, the Bank carried out in depth study on
Korean economy, financial sector situation in particular in 1993 and released its outcome in
"STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT" on November 17, 1993. Based on this report, the Bank and
the Republic of Korea entered into the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) on January 19, 1994.
At the same date, the participating financial institutions (PFIs), i.e. Kookmin Bank (KB, which
was named Citizens National Bank before December 31, 1998), Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK),
Korea Technology Bank (KTB) and Korea Banking Institute (KBI) entered into the individual
Project Agreement with the Bank.
The project consisted of two components, i.e. the component of the line of credit of
US$94million to enable the PFIs to provide loans to SME, and a technical assistance of US$6
million to enhance the technical capabilities of professionals both in government sector and
financial sector. Regarding the line of credit of US$94 million, GOK, the borrower, relent the
proceeds to the PFIs to finance the projects; US$34million to KTB, US$30 million each to KB
and IBK. With regard to TA part of the loan, US$2 million was channeled into KBI to support
training programs and enhance KBrs capacity as a training institution. Original amount of loan
for this project was US$3million but it decreased to US$2million under the agreement with the
Bank. The PFIs used the loan proceeds to lend for the projects of SME which sufficed the
criteria agreed with the Bank in advance.
The FILP project has four major objectives as followings;
*      Support the Government of Korea's program for accelerating deregulation of financial system;
*      Support the institutional building program of three participating financial institutions (PFIs):
Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK), Kookmin Bank (KB, whose original name was the Citizens
National Bank), and Korean Technology Bank Corporation (KTBC),
- 19-



*      Provide long-term credits to eligible private manufacturing enterprises, mainly small- and
medium enterprises (SME), through three participating financial institutions; and
*      Improve technical capabilities of professional in the financial sector and government
organizations responsible for financial sector and policies through training and technical assistance
programs to be managed by Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) for government officials
and by Korea Banking Institute (KBI) for bankers.
Financial Sector Reform
Financial Sector Reform before the crisis
In 1993, GOK announced a far-reaching financial liberalization plan to be implemented
over the next four years. GOK seriously took the path to financial liberalization as planned.
First of all, GOK continue to liberalize interest rates; first stage deregulation of interest rates on
all loans but policy loans, time deposits, and a wide range of bonds in 1993 and final stage
deregulation of all interest rate other than demand deposits in 1997. Secondly, GOK eased
restrictions on issue volumes and permissible maturity of financial instruments such as CDs,
CPs, RPs and commercial bills. Thirdly, GOK gradually phased out policy loans transferring
necessary parts of policy loans to the budget. Fourthly, GOK introduced more transparent and
objective election procedure of chairman of a commercial bank by a committee consisting of
representatives of a variety of stakeholders. Finally, GOK liberalized capital account by
deregulating foreign direct and indirect investment into Korea.
GOK also introduced several policy measures in prudential regulation arena to make banks'
mianagement pay due attention to soundness of banks. From 1995, commercial banks were
recommended to meet the minimum BIS capital adequacy ratio of 8% and report their operational
practice based on the CAMEL framework. GOK introduced deposit insurance scheme, which
implied that the government would differentiate unhealthy bank from healthy bank and allow
bank failure in the near future. However, GOK's efforts to improve the safety and soundness of
financial industry were not so satisfactory because of loose supervision and regulation practices.
Financial Sector Reform after the crisis
*       GOK could not successfully introduce adequate supervision and regulation scheme in
tandem with rapid financial liberalization, which is regarded as the one of the important
causes of the currency crisis in 1997. Facing this financial crisis, GOK adopted a variety of
policy measures to recover the soundness of financial sector and to address the unqualified
practice in regulation and supervision. Followings are the adopted policy measures;
*      GOK established an independent and consolidated financial supervisory organization, i.e.
Financial Supervisory Commission and Financial Supervisory Board based on the Act for the
Establishment of Financial Supervisory Organization in April 1998. At the same time, Bank of
Korea (BOK) was given more independent role in monetary policy under the amended BOK Act.
*      GOK took drastic actions for the resolution of weak financial institutions which could not
satisfy quantitative risk indicators such as BIS capital adequacy ratio. Specifically, GOK
suspended licenses of five banks and nine merchant banks which were deemed not to rehabilitate.
GOK introduced transparent mechanism to be adopted in the handling of weak and insolvent
- 20 -



financial institutions; Prompt Corrective Action System.
*      GOK injected huge amount of public resources to rehabilitate weak financial institutions
including Seoul and Cheil Bank. This public resources were used to re-capitalize weak banks and
purchase non-performing loans from banks. In the case of using public resources, GOK demanded
burden sharing by shareholders and restructuring of the concemed financial institutions. In line
with this GOK policy direction, banks took a variety of actions for restructuring such as closure of
branches and lay-off of employees.
*      In order to facilitate sale of non-performing loans held by financial institutions, GOK
strengthened the role of Korea Asset Management Corporation (KAMCO). KAMCO, a Korean
version of Resolution Trust Corporation in USA, is undertaking the role of processing
non-performing loans in an effective and speedy way.
*      In order to make regulatory framework closer to global standards and improve banks'
soundness and safety, GOK adopted a variety of measures to regulate information disclosure and
lending practices of financial institutions. For the former, GOK introduced measures such as
mark-to-market accounting, disclosure of non-performing loans, asset classification criteria, and
foreign exchange liquidity and exposure criteria, etc. For the latter, GOK introduced measures such
as connected lending limits, single borrower and group exposure limits, etc.
Institution Building of PFIs
In order to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of Korean financial market, GOK had
announced plan to privatize PFIs, during the period for FILP implementation and succeeded to
great extent in spite of unfavorable situations such as fluctuating stock market from time to time.
Regarding KB, GOK listed its stock on Korea Stock Exchange (KSE) on September 30, 1994,
and repealed CNB act on January 5, 1995. In addition, GOK successfully issued GDR
equivalent to US$300million in London Stock Exchange on September 25, 1996. As of June 30,
1999, KB's shares are widely distributed to the investors with only 7.3% ownership of GOK. In
addition to privatization, KB transformed into the one of the biggest and financially sound banks
in Korea acquiring Daedong Bank on June 29, 1998 and merging with Korea Long-Term Bank in
the end of 1998. In the case of KTB, GOK does not have any relationship with it in terms of
equity holding. In order to privatize KTB, first of all, GOK allowed KTB to issue new stocks to
the public and listed it on KSE on November 11, 1996. In addition, GOK repealed KTB act on
February 8, 1999 to abolish the regulations that restricted the shareholding and voting rights of
shareholders up to 7%. Finally, GOK sold all equities owned by it, 10.2 percent of total equities,
to the Will-Bes & Company on March 3, 1999. With regard to IBK, in order to privatize it
smoothly, GOK allowed it issue new shares to the public. As a result, the proportion of IBK
shares owned by GOK decreased to 64.54% in 1994 from 99.9% in 1993. However, GOK was
not able to carry out the privatization plan of IBK due to the currency crisis in 1997. In order to
compensate the losses caused by the worst economic situation in 1997, GOK had to inject capital
to IBK so that proportion of the IBK equity owned by GOK out of total equity of IBK rose to
98% again as of July 30, 1999. In this stage, it does not seem to be a good idea to try to privatize
IBK in haste because GOK had better focus its effort to privatize recently publicized commercial
banks.
In order to drive the PFIs to pay due attention to the soundness and healthiness of their
accounts, the PFIs were required to satisfy the minimum capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent by
-21 -



the end of 1996. While KB satisfied the requirement of 8% capital adequacy ratio, IBK did not
satisfy the requirement by the agreed period. Currently, both KB and IBK satisfies this
requirement; as of December 31, 1998, BIS capital ratio for KB is 10.09% and that of IBK is
8.33%. In the case of KTB, it was not required to meet minimum capital adequacy ratio of 8%
under the KTB act which was repealed on February 8, 1999. Instead, it is required to keep its
real net equity ratio (real net equity divided by real total assets) above 7% under the Financial
Companies Specializing in Loan Business Act. In the end of 1998, the real net equity ratio of
KTB stayed disappointingly low at 2.7% because of financial accident in Kwangju Branch.
However, in the first half of 1999, KTB increased its capital by KRW215billion so that its real
net equity ratio is 17.5% exceeding the required minimum ratio of 7% by 10.5% as of September
30, 1999.
On the other hand, the independent external auditors, most of which have alliance
relationship with world widely known top accounting firms, audit PFIs' accounts in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. As GOK has been trying to strengthen the
accounting standards in accordance with global standards, and requires accounting firms to take
more responsibility on their opinion, auditors check the relevance and correctness of accounts of
the PFIs with great independence, transparency and caution. Regarding the soundness of the
PFIs' assets, the financial crisis in 1997 caused severe damage to them. In addition to the effect
of the financial crisis, changes in regulation on non-performing loan (NPL) classification and loan
loss provisions caused the sudden increase of NPL of the PFIs. Although the share of NPL out of
total loans is substantially high in some institutions, the situation is improving very rapidly and
KB expects to decrease NPL ratio to 4.98% in the end of 1999.
In terms of management performance, three PFIs show great improvement recently while it
was not so satisfactory in the past, in 1997 and 1998 in particular. Net income after tax of KB
continued to increase from KRW80billion in 1994 to KRW164billion in 1996 but it reduced to
KRW104billion in 1997 and KRW60billion in 1998. However, KB expects increased net income
this year. In the case of IBK, although it showed real loss for 2 consecutive years because of the
financial crisis; KRW54billion in 1997 and KRWI,353billion in 1998, it expects great
improvement in 1999, i.e. earnings before tax of KRWlOObillion. KTB performed very well
until 1996 showing substantial amount of net income every year. In addition, its return on equity
ratio showed far more than 10% throughout this period. However, net income reduced to
KRW2.4billion in 1997 and reversed to net loss of KRWI28.6billion in 1998. However,
supported by the recovery of the Korean economy, stock market recovery in particular, KTB
expects to return to positive situation with net income of KRW23.2billion in 1999.
In order to improve the performance and productivity, the PFIs have been taking drastic
measures to restructure, i.e. reduction of the number of department units at their head offices and
closure of overseas and domestic branches laying off huge number of staffs. On the other hand,
the PFIs renewed their management by recruiting persons with more competency and expertise in
managing financial institutions. They also keep trying to improve the capability of employee by
providing more advanced training opportunities.
The PFIs are introducing more advanced Asset Liability Management (ALM) system with
the help of the world's top class experts as they noticed its importance from the experience of the
financial crisis. They are developing adequate risk management strategies for their own situation
and appraising the risk by Value-at-Risk calculation method. With this effort, they are very
successfully building the capacity to keep their financial status sound and safe.
- 22 -



Provide Long-term Credits to Private Manufacturing Companies
One of the important objectives of FILP was to provide long-term credits to private
manufacturing companies through the PFIs. US$ 91 .5million out of total line of credit of US$ 94
million was relent to SME. The beneficiaries belongs to various kinds of industry sectors and
most of them can be classified into rather small companies. Eighty-nine percent loans out of total
loans has the maturity of more than three years and only 11.4 percent out of total loans has
maturity of less than 1 years. With regards to the size of the loans, 97.5 percent loans out of total
loans were smaller than US$ lmillion. In terms of the soundness of loans made, it does not seem
to cause more serious burden to the PFIs than other loans considering NPL ratio out of total
loans.
Technical Assistance
Regarding TA component introduced to improve the capability in private sector, KBI made
substantial effort to improve the effectiveness of its training courses and arranged various kinds
of overseas training programs. The subject of KBI training programs included foreign exchange,
ALM, derivatives, risk management, bank marketing, lending skills, portfolio management and
environmental risk management seminar, etc. With TA loans in particular, KBI arranged
excellent overseas training programs held in famous educational institutions in USA and UK.
Three hundred sixty three officers from the diverse financial institutions such as banks and
insurance companies participated in those programs. In addition, KBI held pilot semninar on
environmental issues under the approval of the Bank in 1994, in which 91 loan officers from 22
financial institutions took part in.
Regarding TA component for MOFE, the loan amount for it increased to US$4million from
US$3million allocated under the agreement with the Bank in the beginning. From 1994 to 1999,
62 government officials including 14 officials from the ministries other than MOFE went to the
universities in overseas with this loan. Most of them entered university in USA to study finance
and economy, and some of them went to Japan and UK. With the knowledge on financial sector
they acquired in overseas training, they are actively participating in policy making in the
government sector.
Under-achieved objectives
Although the project objectives were achieved in general, there are some areas which did
not satisfy the expectations of the Bank and GOK. In particular, some PFIs were not able to
satisfy several terms and conditions agreed between the Bank and them in the project agreement.
For example, requirement to get auditors opinion on the adequacy of loan loss provision,
requirement of KTB to satisfy agreed debt equity ratio to incur more debt, requirement to hire
engineer with the expertise in environmental sector as a loan officer were not satisfied
successfully. If the PFIs had satisfied these conditions to full extent with greater attention, they
should have been able to have better performance. However, considering that the PFIs have been
endeavoring to overcome the worst situation before and after the financial crisis and comply to
the newly introduced and strengthened regulatory schemes, it is also understandable that they had
difficulty in fulfilling all conditions, in particular some conditions which seemed to belong to
minor areas.
-23-



On the other hand, regarding credit provision to SMEE by the PFIs, if we had designed
system more precisely and effectively, the PFIs could have utilized this opportunity to improve
their credit evaluation capacity. As the PFIs were reluctant to get through the approval procedure
of the Bank and calculate IFRR of the sub-project, they made loans in the amount less than
US$lmillion: it prevented the Bank from being involved in the credit analysis process for better
management. The Bank found fault with high free limit for this situation implying that lower free
limit would have enhanced the performance. However, instead of lowering free limit which may
cause administrative burden for the Bank as well as the PFIs, it would be more helpful to
introduce system which concentrates on advisory procedure based on timely and continuous
review and analysis. Finally, as it always is the case, more communications and cooperation in
the beginning period of the implementation would have improved the performance very much.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
- 24 -



10. Additional Information
Part I: Subloan Information:
Subloan Profile (In millions US$)
IBK                KTBC             KB
No  Amount   No    Amount   No   Amount
A. Total Subloans              107    30.0      59       34.0    115      12.8
B. By Sector.                   =
Machinery & Equipment           46    12.9       6       4.97    NA')    NA
Textile & Fiber                28      8.1       6       1.83
Chemicals                       12     3.3       6      2.89      _  _
Metal                                            10      6.03
Electronic                                       6       5.42
Ceramic                                          2       1.39
Automobile                                       14      7.2
Mold                                             3       1.14
Medicine                                         2       1.55
Others                          21     5.7       4       1.58
C. By Market Orientation
Foreign                         80    22.5      26      15.08
Domestic                        27     7.5      33      18.92    115      12.8
D. By Size of Subloan                                _    ____
Below USD I million            105    28.0      5.4    25.53    115       12.8
USD I million-                  2      2.0       5      8.47
2 million
USD 2 million- 3 million
Above 3 million
E. By Maturity
Less than I year                _                                 4       0.7
1-3 years                                        3       1.35    24       1.2
3-5 years                       I I    3.4      50      29.21     60      7.1
S year or more                  96    26.6       6       3.44     27      3.8
F. By Past
Due Aging'
Loan served on time             73    14.8       7       1.02    115      12.8
1-90 days
91-365 days                     _                               _
1-2 years                                        3       1.89   _
Over 2 years                                     1       0.24
Rescheduled                     _
G. By Risk Classification 2
Normal                          45     7.3       7       1.02    104      12.4
Special Mention                 18     4.8                                4.8
Substandard                     4      0.7       2       1.49     11      0.4
Doubtful                        3      0.2   .                            .
Loss                            3      1.8       2       0.64
H. By Subborrower Size                          ___
Large                          NA      NA        4       4.01
SME                            NA      NA       55      29.99    115      12.8
I) Kookmin Bank: total loans, US$12.8 million, were made to the industry & manufacturing sector
2) As of June 30, 1999
-25 -



Part II: PFIs Information:
Table 1: EBK - Projected and Actual Financial Position and Performance, 1993-97
(in billion won)
ft-o        PRO    Raiio  ftwE  REW    Rao   Roco                  t      Ratno   Roce       Rca    Ratio  ame    RM            Rabo
Chsh"1OrLj~k1                       I6)     In      10O10'     D39.4  1932    95.70       2292.   121AM  913'        2565    1774   69.20       23&4   1343.  4730/
sa=yjm                     ~~~5704    90_   15930,     8x      1561   19o20       iim     28)    25033'      1-W       72  249Y,  2_ 04   4881. 241.60
WakmCbm Lam               ~7199   I0M       147.0'/    8610A  12475S  144.9/      9959   144758~ 145320     114231   1720.  13509P    12957.  198124 159-
Shoutam                             5556    8355   150.10/    6616    9967.  150.6'       7585   U4Y   151.10A    85         13599  15818'      96      1%%   1642
NU wm                               1632,   ZM3   13659        19933  __       125.80/    23713.    0158  127.10A    2805.   3621   129.10/ __29         39     119.9',
TaMLCBM                   ~~376     :557d   14S3"     4379~   72611  1660/        400.'   603Z   1230A    54279    9253'  16.70/    5942          8902  15.09
Pmvisicm                   ~~~-46.    -9.d  1929       -56.(   -21~   38.18'       -64.    -13.d  21.10/      -73.8   -48.  65.6'/       -83    -136  16320/
UwAss&                    ~~~29951   3634   121301    34-      4278   123.70      3624_   4821f~  13259T     35906   639    17820       3357.   8168h 243320
1UPLASES                            16183.  173743  107.40/   1922   2D95    109.9'    21832   2476301 I13.4"    24432   300333   1229'/ __2732   34959~  12930/
1Dx=                                8110.   8338   10280        926     9457   102101   1061    10%50  93.60/    122105  11930)  917.90'   14110   12007.  85.104
S-atkm                             6504w   679631  10459       74269   7849.7  105.70     8       8716.1  104       97928   9679. -98.80- -11316    93461 _70
Mdbm                                165S   1542    96310       1833d   16)7~  g7730       21003   189   88.0'3    2417.7  227    93.9',    2793   21613  77.40
Bank=                     ~~~4718    36362. 77.10,    6019  4635  77.0'/          6M        W      85.8A     6956.7  663f  9620/        68342   7554  11059/
Shatbm                             2583~  199   77.40          32      2457(   7380/      3602-   29731   82.59      37131   3547ft  95.59      3494.1  3926. 112.40
hx iefm                            2134J   16363   76.70/    26911   2178    81.0'/    2999.   283151  94AO0    32,436   3146   917.0'          3340.1  36262 16)866
OdIfLiab3ioe                        2663.   5002  188.0'     3 17       60.  195.70/       3633,   7&05~ 2155         41449  10673.1 257591    47113  147-%  31329/
'OL4L L"BMM                        1592   16983   109.6/    18453   2M03    110.0'/   2045.'  240585  115.40/   233121  29317  125.80A   256__    34318  133.80/
Paid- Ca*    ~6027    307.7   51101                    652: ___        77S'        832     3708   63.30       852.7 ___    59.60A    106)7   5__    50.70/
R=%ts&F&tedEzmi%872'   83.   95.60,                    1261    1411  111.80/      184      197JD  10681'     2579    19&   73.9'  3 7            133   35.60/
IOL4APhT~*Ht                          69      391_1  56_7_   ___          4      8330/      %7       7045~ 71.40A      110  ____    63.0'3    13767    641.1  46.60
-'rJIJLi4BffJIIFYET8fr*I            161827  173743  107.40/   1922__            108.9%    21832   247630  113.40    244327! 36C232 1229'4   27OW2  34959.4  31291
GromPzvam                 ~~142    13752   96.70/    1676    1         100.9'     191411  21310~ 1113'1    21782   2591j  119.0'        2483.1   32o7.  12930
Ndhixn                                33.      153   4559        5                39          3        2~73            19        3    29.9'A      1333    -57.  46
N't karripANgTool As~                  0.       0.    0.40/        031     0.    0.70         0.4      0.0   0.70/       0-5      0.0   0.3         0.       0.  -0301
I'toxf t  NTA   t orth                 6. ___         0.60/        7.7     0.1   (.0'/        9.1      Q.1   1.0'        10.11     . 0.Q  40       10.7    -0.   -0.80/
Mma      wgMs A ToW Ams                2.       2 1   7959/       24       L.   77.0'         2.~   l.9~ 78.40/          2        1.  79.8          2.(      1.2  5159
rdseYN   olAR                        1.       1    -80' 1/   1.7         L    84.10         1.      1.3.  833'         1        1   8929          1.      1.  9330
PWnCO rWA9                             3.       0k    0591        3.4      0.    0.70/        3.       0.0   0.60        3           04  Q5         3.7     0. 0.4
NdWai1hTgc As3                         4~   0          50          4.0 .    0.80/             4.1      OD    0.60         .        ./    0.50       5.1      0.(  Q0
NT  etTalLbfte                         4.       0f    0.50,        42      0.     08          4        00    0.60/       43       0.C  059l         5.4     0.(   030
LainPatioTctalAsq                     67;      64.11 94.60/      675      6      93          68.1    6)-   89.4'/       688      6)3  87-59        69'     5      51
Lce PaitIjyTct1 Dxsi                135~  1334   9859           140 3 9. 95                140.     427  101.91       13781 151  109.9'          13       12  128.8
Nct13 Ecrl1993 rait L    ass sJ1diwaw. Wa~ssxdnetwil%h auwsa',-.ntWorth                ___         __ -                                 _    _____                -
- 26 -



Table 2: KB - Projected and Actual Financial Position and Performance, 1993-97
(in biHion won)
1993                      1994                       1995                        1996                       1997
-EO*=L -AMBL  Rii,,                                                       Rtin   BMpC=d   Ab,l   %fia -Bni=W    AM-1
-4 Od- I ad A=                        29591   76pi                               79.9-,    4C                                  &AR Q   OR 4-1    V179    &M   80-61%
1955    2105-1 107 7-                    I                              1-1    2M       ';376,  179,  --MU  --  rlqdA 4  I
iori 9 1                              im  100-                         94.1     19699    MM   ond.,                           89.71M
1348A   5675   AIM rp,    lmd    7;10r  dM V,        1III;    M) r  'Al         mm   QlQdf  'Ad k-,    117n 1    17141)
9875,           55                         47,                        55       17032    8620,   50        2128L
-3.7    NA      NA        .4.     NA       N)                 NA      N).       -6-5     NA       M        .7.9       NA      NA
R-azign F-+-igc                              NAI  -)OI R     NA]       NA]  'M  4       N)-       NA    444.' J.    Nlb       M      4514      XI        XA       R49 
NfAl  M-7    MAI          MAI  All A                        116      NA        N;    6M6        N)        NA      Ini';il
A-li- -.1 cmiw=                              WAI  "( C,    W)          WA   I)M7                         14RI SI    NA        N)   1645,                 NA      XA1      N
Odxr As&                                  214711 10674               2469,   1288    52         2904             50 71/.   3474              SI -IA    417q q           52,41,
187y                    -2M                                   IW (n                       PA fql   lwmr    J(
DMC&                                              14907             149CA  16932-1  113        1        126su .  (r/,   21000   23761   113          2-VCO      73736   l(P I
qh-mt TMI1                                 1051 1;            MU   1?W-4  VS            11731   'AU70  M  V, ---L40-1(,   17RZI   177A  ---JMW           19045   III
LML-T=                                      4294.1            5101.9  4VI I R9 6-1    5968                88   ----f2U.5  5940    85.1                    6691.   81
proph6w                                                   109Z       145a    1844.1  1271       19111         --AILT2 ----ZMJ   3752   163                      5933   213 70,
112-   21        KM')] nio I')OJ                     17171  21;   __2615   1857   IT,             1157, ---29M    251
LMC=                                       1152   186,  -         7RQ4   "f)  A11-1-   i(M  I    991 e 0 T2 ---13242 --iSk9 -141E __iuu                      _Iva
=       & Awmmw                              N)    71917    M)         NA    '431 A     NA        NA]   316-1    N)          ',,A    K)D 6,    hL
1)                                         3u                        72) ?     MAI       MAJ   96711    N)           NIA   12-13 3    NA       NA      14R7 SI
0owli"ifim                                ')1;5( I  I 1    44        3337     m  A Iri-PA    &Mc   I rPAA  ISA-1    7)(! -.3529,0. wi.,   -vnil
TOTAL 114HU77n                           1        1781    108,      19728.1 20719.6  105,     23792   24723           --22QW                                             TM,
r-iM                                 441 f    191.n  43-3-1     441.C   791(i  OILM        691,    391    56,         691      4-64,51  672'z               V1
R     A' Raw-d P-mings                       I f '"i    AO M         S'il c 4)g    &7-,    101         6". 1hi 1         1191      w       91 4-, ---M2
rgfvm                            m        41     46,        977     719               1        1(35-1                                       3013
7 MA L f- [A R ff- n MU W    9 I W rM    17W      IRM                       11143K   1 (S.             75759,  101       vaw               I rA c-,   mrc,
r    R,~                                 1531    1553                               104.1                       99   ---224
NW f-                                       6D.     70,                              m frI       I A f    I m r --6am
Phe T mn I                                  3                                       XI)S-/        531   1-47 5 __2S2&                                   7 91    771
KF,'V)?,47WN - z)
NW hym,-A3S ILW AR                         OA       0.4 104A-                       761-i        0.7
.A       0.5     0                           0.41--ffiL        0              71
Ingyn&Aw M  Wcrth                         9 7    16 9174 5-A        W       141                11,1                       12             IM                           M
Akfm ExpmscsAn IcW-Aw-                     1       5   165,          3-       5.                3,;                         3             157                         7m
Nar  4mdAW. Ttd Assers                      2.      3.  12&            2.      2.                2.                          2.          __M&                           56
Nd-in cwmncw Awg%                            2.6      1.1  40           2.1     1 .               2.                                         65,                      -JM
hkJW,,&trrt,I A-m                            5       2    4;           17      1    '71                            (.1       6 1      1_-MM                           . 61 6-/,
4(1     1                                             6 5      4 6   71,         9.6-
Nd WcrdVrbi I ihTIhN                         S 4     7 141                                                       58.1
T p Pb"MTct I A--                         59 4    58.)  981         -n    58.1                                           r-; Al    i5l  96
LALDiabomaLLkamt;                           RIO     '716, RR-g-,       93-d    73 f                                          (A RI    75(l  79
I
J       I         I
27 -



Table 3: KTBC - Projected and Actual Financial Position and Performance, 1993-97
(in billion won)
__________               199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ~1994                    199-1                   1996   __1997
')ndcA~~~~              117.8  161.1 ~~~~~136.80    15j   1j87  j1fi  2383   3162 13270      33      244.51  72.60/    4275   333.6  78.
LoadCoiambonlaaLom                 24.   -269  92        336.1  727. 21640       609.1  13529 222.1o'    950.6  1978&1 2og.1'   135.   2135.3  157.6'
*hig  .aot    Lan   1                          95.9'l    $4.    587  6.9$       725           69V/    57.1   45.8  8020          46.6   1     23
FawingLOW&R516   23.044.6i    10.    30.7 28.9                          126      29023.0'/    16.    122I   7.40         215.5   13.8   6.40
camaliek d oJj    52.7'                                   415    23.  570/        55.5  0..2  36.40       87Q   24.8  58          125.5   24.1  1920
Qadfi-A LjM                          7.'   6.6, 93.0?      7.7   16.4,2130'A       7.8   17.'  2192        8.7   24.6  282.80       9.7   20A 21020Y
* In                .~~~~~~~~~~5.. 9   60!5116M,    61.1   74.41121.8'  72.7   97.8 13450     101.8, 155.  153.0'y   137.91  345.6 250.60
LeawAss&                  ~~74.0  37.4 5050/    114.1   41.0  3590      187.4   374  20?        305.11  34.9  11.40~  481.7   27.3   5.70/
OdwAsmt..... 49                    56  131 =      0.   4.Jj.       -/    1~       61.3           211.4   99.8  4720       251'1  143.2  572
Y7TLAS=Z                            685.0  659.3 9       10162  127. 118.80    15299  1982. 129.0/   222421 2620.5  117.80Y   3050A  3152.2 10320Y
DDwcEit                              2.3   1.0 4A350       75      1.2  16.0'/    10.01   1.0  10.0'/    12.5    0.4   320         15.0    1.5  10.0
FrwNIietsP%bIe               .....23    9.7. 40.80   51.3    13.9 27.10'    61.4   12.9  21.0         81.4 ....0      6.10/    106.4    5.1  4..A0,
BOW     __________                 381.6  373.9 98.0',   540.0  621A 115.10Y    866.6  1141.? 131.70/   1285.0  1491 115.9'    1535.  1839.  119.%
Cr mTntLo,                           74.1        I2IM      674   34    1.1        592   5A 8016           510   753 I 1476.9',    42.8  830J 19409'
fm Lc.m74 7.  9020/    122.8   85.9 70.0'Y    144.2   74.31 51-50/    167.8   69.3  41.301    2074   147.3  71.0'
Oda Uabfts                3     21 68 *         79.0   27.9  350       141.    53.  378/       198.7   171 58.9'    258.8  141A 4 
TorALLUwunI                         592.9  5683 95.9'/   868.0  11002, M268     12833  1864.1 14530?   1796.4  2434.1  13550    216541 2965.9 1370'
'ET mmii                  ~~~~~~~~~92.1  91.0 98.8  1482   106.9 72.1'A    246.6  118.0 47.9'/    427.8  186.4  43.6')   885.0  186.3  21.1'~
70TALL"BanWAi~AET58tW2             685.0  6593  9620/  10162  1207.1 118.80/   1529.9  1982.1 129.60/   2224.2  2620.5  117.80/   3050.4  31522  103.3'
LOT   m                              84.2  80.9 96.1$    1094   123.9.1133'       170.5  202.5 118.8'    262.4  285.7i 108.9'    338.5  355.91 105.10/
NetPmk&AwTax               8.0~ 8....? 0j     17.2   17.9 104J10          29.   1....94.9         49.6   18.6  37         84       2.4   2
NetProft /Az Tdal Aqq                0.01   0.01  8320     0.0    0.02   9'       0.02    0.01   35'      0.03    0.01    310'    0.03    0.0)    30/
Nqp,tfit/EauIWw                   0.09...Q       81.80,    0.14  0...7  1170,     0.15    0.11   72',     0.15    01      680       13    0.01I 1Y
Iner1nhr,/AvizToaIA~ss              0.11    NA_   bV_    0.11      NA_ N___       0.12      A     N       0.13.   NA_    NA_    0.13        NA_  __
Nehhg/t pAs                         0.01           NJ     0.01          0_ 02   -                         0.03     NA_    -A       004
AdnF       wAvTWs                   0.03    NA_   NAI   0.01       NA _           0.01     NA N           0.01     NA_    No_    0.01
NqtInMmgfi3fmNbvi                               0.01    NA    NA.-    0.011   NA_  NA.         0.0?  0__..,02...Q?N
Umggi D1/ EqiyRatio                 4.0 3.701 77.1'       4.6    8.11 17620       4401  11.79 268.0'      3.60    8.33  2314',    2.20    936425
IDd3SgviC,   Ral               j ~2.24 140 oo j  2O           2.4  j2L'       3.0    2.21  73.70      2 IC    2.09 _99,50      2,50    1.61    .4
- 28-



PartIII: PFIsAverageAnnual Growth Rate, 1993-97 (lo)
1993-1994 1994-1995 1995-1996 1996-1997 Average Growth Rate
IBK
Total Assets Growth Rate   20.6   18.2      21.2       16.4           19.1
Net Worth Growth Rate   65.9       8.6       0.2      -9.2            16.4
Net Income Growth Rate   174.5    47.6      -48.4    -278.1          -26.1
KB
Total Assets Growth Rate   17.6   20.1      25.5       22.6           21.5
Net Worth Growth Rate   72.9      43.9      38.5      34.7           47.5
Net Income Growth Rate    13.6    27.5      60.4      -36.2           16.3
KTB
Total Assets Growth Rate   83.1   64.2      32.2       20.3           49.9
Net Worth Growth Rate   17.5      10.4      58.0      -98.7          -3.2
Net Income Growth Rate   167.2    -27.9     44.2      -87.1          24.1
- 29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Output Indicators:
No performance indicators were prepared either at the preparation or the supervision stage.
'End of project
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comronent (in US$ million equivalent)
Line of Credit                                       241.00
Technical AssistanIce                                  9.00
Total Baseline Cost                                  250.00             0.00
Total Project Costs              250.00            0.00
Total Financing Required              250.00            0.00
Note 1: Actual project costs are difficult to obtain as there were 281 subloans made by 3 PFIs. Please
refer to Section 5.4 of the ICR.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Note 2: The Project Costs by Procurement Methods was not prepared at the appraisal stage.
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
- 31 -



(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Note 3: See Notes I & 2 above.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Ap raisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank     Govt.    CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Line of Credit          94.00    147.00                                          0.0    0.0   0.0
Technical Assistance    6.00      3.00                                            0.0   0.0   0.0
0.0    0.0   0.0
Note: See Note 1 above.
-32 -



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No, of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
I  _(e.g. 2 Economistts, ;EMIS,etc.) 0j0 Implementation   Development
Month/year    Count         Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1992               13    Not Applicable
Appraisal/Negotiation
July 1993                10   Not Applicable
Supervision
April i994               16   Not Applicable                          S                  S
ICR
June 2000                 3   1 I Operations Analyst                  S                  S
2 Financial Economists
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
____________ ____________No. Staffw es~                     USS  (,000)
Identification/Preparation                120.8                         245.5
AppraisaUfNegotiation                      20.9                          51.3
Supervision                                59.7                          71.5
ICR                                         4.3                          25.5
Total                                     205.7                         393.8
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Financial                              O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development              0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
ZPoverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
BOther (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisftctory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performace                                 Rating
N Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
[ Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformace                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S  O U  0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  O u  0 HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS  O  u  O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents are available upon request:
1. Staff Appraisal Report: Korea Financial Intermediation Project, November 17, 1993 (Report
No. 12266-KO);
2. Minutes of Negotiations between the Republic of Korea and the World Bank regarding the
Financial Intermediation Project, Dated October 20, 1993;
3. Loan Agreement (Financial Intermediation Project) between Republic of Korea and
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Dated January 19, 1994;
4. IBK Project Agreement, Dated January 19, 1994;
5. CNB Project Agreement, Dated January 19, 1994 (CNB is now renamed as KB);
6. KTBC Project Agreement, Dated January 19, 1994;
7. KBI Project Agreement, Dated January 19, 1994;
8. IBRD supervision mission reports (1994-98);
9. IBRD ICR mission aide memoir, Dated November 30, 1999;
10. Audit and annual reports of PFls (1994-98);
11. Audit reports of MOFE and KBI training programs (1994-98); and
12. PFIs Tables on Subloan Profile, Subproject Implementation, and Top 10 subborrowers.
- 37 -



