Page  1
                                                 CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3689 KO
                       CNB PROJECT AGREEMENT
                (Financial Intermediation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
                      Dated January 19, 1994
                                            LOAN NUMBER 3689 KO
                       CNB PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CITIZENS NATIONAL
BANK (CNB).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between REPUBLIC OF KOREA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that CNB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and  CNB, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to CNB on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS CNB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Page  2
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth except that the term "Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement" in this Agreement means the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to which CNB is or becomes a party; the term "Project
Agreement" in this Agreement means the CNB Project Agreement; and the
term "Special Account" in this Agreement means the Special Account
established with respect to Category (3)(b) of the Table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of CNB
      Section 2.01. CNB declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with its Charter and its Statement of Policy.
      Section 2.02. (a) CNB undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   CNB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to:
            (i)    protect the interests of the Bank, of the Bor-
                   rower and of CNB;
            (ii)   comply with its obligations under this Agreement
                   and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
            (iii)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
      Section 2.03. CNB shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relat-
ing to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, respectively) in respect of the Project Agree-
ment and Part A.2 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. CNB shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, CNB shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) CNB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A.2
of the project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   CNB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A.2
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
Page  3
the performance by CNB of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (c)   To better assist CNB in carrying out Part A.2 of the
Project, CNB shall promptly employ and at all times maintain on its
staff a competent and experienced engineer as a loan officer who
shall be responsible for the proper appraisal and supervision of
Investment Enterprises to ensure, inter alia, their compliance with
appropriate environmental standards and environmental requirements
in Korea.
      Section 2.06. CNB shall carry out by December 31, 1996 a two-
year training program satisfactory to the Bank (as amended from time
to time) to continue the institutional development of CNB which
includes provision for improving the project appraisal capabilities
of CNB's staff.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) CNB shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A.2 of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of CNB.
      (b)   CNB shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than four months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audited;
                   and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                   of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested, including (with-
                   out limitation) the opinion of the said auditors
                   on the adequacy of the loan loss provisions made
                   by CNB based on the quality of CNB's loan portfo-
                   lio rather than on the level of such provision in
                   prior years; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. CNB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the various
currencies (including the currency of the Borrower) used in its
operations.
      Section 3.03. CNB shall do all things necessary to ensure that
it achieves a Capital Adequacy of not less than eight percent by
January 1, 1996.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CNB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify CNB thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                 INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA),
                 Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      For CNB:
            President
            Citizens National Bank
            C.P.O. Box 815
            Seoul, Korea
            Cable address                  Telex:
                 CNBANK                          K23481
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of CNB may be taken or executed by the President of
CNB or such other person or persons as the President shall designate
in writing, and CNB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
                           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                           By  /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                           CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK
                           By  /s/ Chung-Gi Kim
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                   of Sub-loans and Investments
1.    Sub-loans shall be denominated in dollars, shall have a maximum
repayment period of ten years, including a maximum grace period of
three years and shall bear interest at the prevailing market rate in
Korea for similar loans in dollars to Investment Projects, and shall
not exceed five million dollars ($5,000,000) for any Sub-loan.
2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless:
      (a)   the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the application and information required
under paragraph 4(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan or
Investment; or
      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received the request and information required under paragraph
4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For
the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of $2,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for such Investment Project.
3.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, to qualify for a Sub-
loan, an Investment Enterprise shall:
      (a)   demonstrate that the Investment Enterprise:
            (i)   has, or as a result of the Investment Project is
                  likely to have, revenues in dollars or earnings
                  which can be regarded as prospectively in dollars
Page  6
                  by virtue of their being generated from the supply
                  of goods or services which will be included in
                  exports sold for dollars; and
            (ii)  has a sound financial structure to support the
                  Investment Project and to achieve the internal
                  financial rate of return mentioned in paragraph
                  3(b)(ii) below;
      (b)   demonstrate that the Investment Project for which the
Sub-loan is being requested:
            (i)   shall be for activities in the direct or indirect
                  export manufacturing sector;
            (ii)  shall have an internal financial rate of return of
                  not less than 15% for Sub-loans of $1,000,000 or
                  more; and
            (iii) shall be in compliance with appropriate environ-
                  mental standards and environmental laws, regula-
                  tions, rules and guidelines in Korea.
For the purposes of paragraph 3(b)(i) above, an activity will be
regarded as in the indirect export manufacturing sector if it com-
prises the manufacture of intermediate goods for sale to exporters
for incorporation in manufactured products for export, or if it
comprises the provision of services in connection with such manu-
factured products for export.
4.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval, CNB shall furnish
to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with:
            (i)   a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
                  appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
                  description of the expenditures proposed to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
            (ii)  the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan
                  or Investment, including the schedule of amorti-
                  zation of the Sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank
                  of the amount of the Loan to be used for the
                  Investment; and
            (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reason-
                  ably request.
      (b)   Each request by CNB for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall
contain:
            (i)   a summary description of the Investment Enterprise
                  and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
                  tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed
                  out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
            (ii)  the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, includ-
                  ing the schedule of amortization therefor.
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented
to the Bank on or before March 31, 1997.
5.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby CNB shall obtain, by
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank, the Borrower and CNB including the right to:
      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and
Page  7
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
      (b)   require the Investment Enterprise, in carrying out and
operating the Investment Project, to comply with all applicable
environmental laws , regulations, rules and guidelines applicable in
Korea and to minimize any environmental damage sustained in the
course of carrying out or operating the Investment Project;
      (c)   require that:
            (i)   all goods and services to be financed out of the
                  proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively in
                  carrying out the Investment Project; and
            (ii)  the goods and services to be financed out of the
                  proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a
                  reasonable price, account being taken also of
                  other relevant factors such as, in the case of
                  goods, time of delivery, reliability and avail-
                  ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
                  therefor, and , in the case of services, of their
                  quality and the competence of the parties render-
                  ing them; provided, however:
                  (A) that contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
                      lent of $5,000,000 or more shall be procured
                      in accordance with Sections I and II of the
                      "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
                      and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
                      1992 (the Guidelines) and so that: (I) for
                      fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
                      referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guide-
                      lines shall provide that, when the contract
                      award is delayed beyond the original bid
                      validity period, the successful bidder's price
                      will be increased for each week of delay by
                      two predisclosed correction factors acceptable
                      to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
                      currency components and the other to the local
                      currency component of the bid price (and such
                      an increase shall not be taken into account in
                      the bid evaluation); and (II) in the procure-
                      ment of goods or services under such contracts
                      under this subparagraph (A), the relevant
                      standard bidding documents issued by the Bank
                      shall be used with such modifications thereto
                      as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary
                      for the purposes of the Investment Project or,
                      where no relevant standard bidding docu-ments
                      have been issued by the Bank, bidding docu-
                      ments based on other internationally recog-
                      nized standard forms agreed with the Bank
                      shall be used; and
                  (B) that with respect to all contracts estimated
                      to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more,
                      the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
                      4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply
                      (and where payments for such a contract are to
                      be made out of the Special Account, such
                      procedures shall be modified to ensure that
                      two conformed copies of the contract required
                      to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
                      paragraph 2(d) shall be furnished to the Bank
                      prior to the making of the first payment out
                      of the Special Account in respect of such
                      contract);
      (d)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
Page  8
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
      (e)   require that:
            (i)   the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
                  maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
                  against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
                  be consistent with sound business practice; and
            (ii)  without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
                  insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
                  acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
                  place of use or installation, any indemnity there
                  under to be made payable in a currency freely
                  usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
                  repair such goods;
      (f)   obtain all such information as the Bank or CNB shall rea-
sonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and
to the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
      (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract
with CNB.
