Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17777-DJI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUJMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.0 MILLION (US$ 2.7 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR AN
EX-COMBATANTS REINTEGRATION PROJECT
November 30, 1998
Country Department 8
Africa Region
Post-Conflict Unit
Social Development Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Djibouti Franc (FD)
FD 177 =US$ 1 (March 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             African Development l3ank
AGETIP          Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Publique
AND             Arm6e Nationale Djiboutienne
ESAF            Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU              European Union
FD              Djibouti Franc
FNP             Force Nationale de Police
FRUD            Front pour la Restauration de l'Unite et la Democratie
FY              Fiscal year
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IDA             International Development Association
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF             International Monetary Fund
LIL             Learning and Innovation Loan
NGO             Non-governmental organization
PAAC            Programme d'Assistance aux Anciens Combattants
PATARE          Projet d'Assistance Technique pour Appuyer la Reforme Economique
PRAC            Programme de Reinsertion des Anciens Combattants
SDR             Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNOPS           United Nations Office for Project Services
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Michael Sarris
Sector Manager: Nat Colletta
Task Team Leader: Markus Kostner



Djibouti
Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 8
Date: November 30, 1998                                         Task Team Leader: Markus Kostner
Country Director: Michael Sarris                                      Sector Manager: Nat Colletta
Project ID:                     Sector: SA                        Program Objiective Category: PA
Lending Instrument: LIL         Program of Targeted Intervention:    []     Yes    [x]    No
Project financing data       [] Loan          [x] Credit         [  Guarantee      [] Other
Amount: US$ 2.7 m / SDR 2.0 m
Proposed terms:               [x]   Multicurrency   []    Single currency, specify:
Grace period (years): 10 [I     Standard        [    Fixed             []   LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: n/a
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$ m):
Source                     Local                 Foreign                Total
Government                             0.08                    -                    0.08
IDA                                    2.59                  0.14                   2.73
Beneficiaries                          0.37                    -                    0.37
Total           3.04                  0.14                   3.18
Borrower: Republic of Djibouti
Responsible agency: Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ m):                     FY99          FY00
Annual       0.94          1.79
Cumulative      0.9.4         2.73
Project implementation period:       18 months
Expected effectiveness date:         January 1, 1999
Expected completion date:            June 30, 2000
Expected closing date:               September 30, 2000



Djibouti
Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective 1
1. Background
2. Project development objective
3. Key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context 2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary 4
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional structure
5. Implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale 10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Reasons for using a Learning and Innovation Loan
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
4. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
5. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
6. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses 14
1. Financial
2. Institutional
3. Social
4. Environmental assessment
5. Participatory approach



F. Sustainability and Risks 16
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions 18
1. Agreements to be reached during negotiations
2. Conditions for approval by Bank management
3. Effectiveness conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation  18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies 19
Annexes
Annex 1    Project Design Summary  21
Annex 2    Detailed Project Description  23
Annex 3    Estimated Project Costs  31
Table A   Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4    Executive Secretariat - Organigram   33
Annex 5    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements  35
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6    Timetable for Training, Monitoring and Consultants  39
Annex 7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule  41
Annex 8    Documents in Project File  43
Annex 9    Statement of Loans and Credits  45
Annex 10   Djibouti at a Glance  47
Annex 11   Map of Djibouti  49
ii



Djibouti
Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
A. Project Development Objective
1. Background
Following the overthrow of the governments in neighboring Ethiopia and Somalia in early 1991, the
influx of about 100,000 refugees into Djibouti exacerbated already exiisting ethnic disparities. A civil war
ensued in late 1991 which in one year of heavy fighting (1991/92) resulted in major destruction of
infrastructure in the northern districts. The war formally ended in December 1994 with the signing of the
Peace Accord between the Government and the Front pour la Restauration de l'Unite et de la Democratie
(FRUD).' As a result of the war, the combined strength of the Armee Nationale Djiboutienne (AND) and
the Force Nationale de Police (FNP) reached an estimated 17,000 men (and some women) under arms,
representing a staggering 7% of the labor force. The burden of military expenditure on the Government's
recurrent budget was also substantial, rising from 24.5% in 1991 to 35.8% in 1994.
Within its program of fiscal decentralization and economic reform initiated in October 1995, the
Government accords center stage to the restructuring of public expenditure from military to social and
economic development needs. The demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants into productive
civilian lives is the central element of this restructuring process. It is also a prerequisite for enduring
social peace. The Government has subsequently prepared a comprehensive demobilization and
reintegration program in 1996/97 to which donors have responded favorably. However, most of the
external financial assistance is directed towards the payment of departure allowances (demobilization).
The program's reintegration component remains severely underfunded.
2. Project development objective
Without any reintegration assistance, the 4,096 ex-combatants2 who were demobilized between 1993 and
1996 often spent their departure allowance unwisely. Rarely did they or the FRUD ex-combatants find
sustainable employment. As a result, ex-combatants from all warring factions - many of whom are
unskilled and illiterate - tend to live lives in destitution and are at risk of resorting to banditry, robbery,
and armed opposition. Targeted reintegration assistance is essential to ease the pressure originating from
having to cope in an unfamiliar environment. Such assistance needs to touch on all facets of this psycho-
social and economic transition. Hence, the project development objective is to effectively facilitate the
social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian liife through tairgeted, multi-sectoral
assistance, validating, in the process, this innovative approach for an envisaged follow-up operation (see
Annex 1).
A faction of FRUD signed the Peace Accord while remaining FRIJD members led by Mr. Ahmed Dini,
Prime Minister in 1977/78, contest the Accord and remain in armed opposition. As a result of continuing insecurity
in several districts, there are currently approximately 6,500 Djiboutians living in refuge in Ethiopia. Another 25,000
Djiboutians are thought to be internally displaced.
2      These include an official figure of 103 servicemen killed or missing in action. Their families are entitled to
receive reintegration assistance.
I



2         Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
3. Key performance indicators
For the purposes of this project, "social reintegration" is defined as the acceptance of an ex-combatant
and his/her family by the host community. "Economic reintegration" implies the financial independence
of an ex-combatant's household through productive and gainful employment. Consequently, the project's
key performance indicators include: (i) acceptance of ex-combatants and their families by the receiving
communities; (ii) the degree of ex-combatant participation in community social life; (iii) the incidence of
crime related to ex-combatants; and (iv) the level of poverty (financial autonomy) among ex-combatant
households.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project
CAS document number: P-5416-DJI                   Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1991
The last formal Country Assistance Strategy for Djibouti was discussed in 1991, i.e. before the outbreak
of hostilities. A new one is to be prepared in FY00, on the basis of preparatory work to be undertaken by
the Bank over the current fiscal year, and extensive in-country discussions (involving government, civil
society, private sector and other partners). The exact timing of the document and content of the strategy
will be shaped primarily by the pace and vigor of the Government's efforts in setting development
priorities and defining a long-term strategy for equitable growth. Social peace is a prerequisite for the
preparation and implementation of this national development strategy.
Present Bank involvement in Djibouti is guided by the Government's 1997policy framework note which
emphasizes the re-establishment of regional integration, the expansion of the resource base, and social
cohesion as the three strategic pillars to sustainable development. Immediate objectives are to consolidate
peace and resume economic growth. Bank assistance thus aims to help the Government (i) lay the
foundation for sustainable development through a process of social and economic inclusion and
employment generation, and (ii) outline a human resources strategy for people-centered development.
Such a strategy could draw heavily from the Bank's 1997 Poverty Assessment, with attention to poverty
(45% of the population is estimated to live below the poverty line - US$1,223 per adult equivalent) and
household spending patterns (including consumption of khat, a natural substance containing alkaloids,
which accounts for nearly 10% of household expenditure). The Bank will also, in close collaboration
with the IMF, continue its support to the Government's efforts aimed at putting in place a policy
framework supportive of restoring financial balance and sustainable economic growth.
The project corresponds to the focus of the forthcoming CAS. By reintegrating a specially vulnerable
group into peaceful and productive civilian life, the project contributes to sustainable development. The
project also aims at providing (self-) employment opportunities .o ex-combatants, thereby revitalizing the
informal sector in rural and urban areas. Importantly, it helps weave ex-combatants into the community
social fabric through counseling services, sensitization initiatives, and community activities, thereby
strengthening social cohesion.



Ex-Comibatants Reintegration Project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
At the end of the civil war in December 1994, the Government faced the tremendous challenge of
reconstructing a war-torn economy experiencing high unemployment (over 40%), high population growth
(over 3% per annum), a decreasing GDP, and increasing internal and external debt. Responding to an
unsustainable fiscal situation, the Government started on its own account the demobilization of soldiers
from the armed forces and police (including disarmament, assembly in discharge centers, various
administrative procedures, and the payment of a departure allowance) even before the signing of the
Peace Accord. This first phase of demobilization, which up to August 1996 reached 4,096 combatants,
did not foresee support for reintegration.
The Government subsequently prepared a phased, comprehensive demobilization and reintegration
program ("Programme d'assistance aux anciens combattants" [PAAC]) with Bank technical assistance in
1996/97 and presented this program at the UNDP Round Table in May 1997. Donors (France, the
European Union [EU] and the African Development Bank [ADB]) pledged support in the amount of US$
15.9 million out of a total of US$ 17.9 million, almost exclusively for the payment of the departure
allowance for 8,224 ex-combatants. This departure allowance differs between front-line duty (8 months
of salary equivalent) and headquarters (4 months of salary equivalent). IDA is also supporting thePAAC,
specifically the administrative structure, through its technical assistance credit ("Projetd'assistance
technique pour appuyer la reforme 6conomique" [PATARE]).
The initial Government program foresaw US$ 2.5 million for assisting the reintegration of the 8,224
phase II ex-combatants (including the disabled), but an upward revision in the calculation of the departure
allowance led to an increase of the costs of demobilization of approximately US$ 2.5 million, hence
essentially crowding out funds for reintegration assistance, given the externally fixed resource envelope
of US$ 17.9 million. This revision was necessary because more accurate data on the distribution of
soldiers between front-line and headquarters duty became available after PAAC preparations. It is
justified as it assures fair and equitable support to all demobilized combatants. (See Section F.3 for
further controversial aspects regarding PAAC financing.)
The Government is gravely concerned that a lack of reintegration support for ex-combatants could lead to
micro-insecurity (banditry, petty crime), if not social unrest. This general risk is exacerbated by the
country's weak economic base for absorbing a substantial addition to the labor force. The current
unemployment rate is already high, at around 45%. Consequently, the Government, through the
Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration, which is funded by IDA, prepared a program
aimed at the economic and social reintegration of ex-combatants ("Programme de Rdinsertion des
Anciens Combattants" [PRAC]). In order to avoid any discontent among ex-combatants demobilized
before and after August 1996, this program targets all 12,300 AND and FNP ex-combatants and, in the
spirit of the Peace Accord, the members of the former rebel forces, FRUD, who had not been integrated
into the security forces or the civil service.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
As experience elsewhere suggests (see Section D.4), the first few years after formal discharge are critical
from both an economic and a psycho-social perspective, even in an economically prospering
environment. Given Djibouti's extremely difficult economic situation, targeted reintegration assistance as
proposed by the Government is especially crucial. Likewise, extending such support to, in principle, all
ex-combatants is justified for reasons of equality and reconciliation. T he project supports thePRAC on a
pilot basis, testing the envisaged design, institutional structure and implementation arrangements.



4         Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
The design of the project reflects certain key strategic choices. Firstly, given the very limited potential for
agricultural development in the country, the project focuses on income generation and skills enhancement
in the informal sector, complemented by employment referral in the formal sector, qualifications and
demand permitting. Secondly, the project aims at a broad geographical spread, providing incentives for
ex-combatants to return to their communities of origin or to their families where their social capital is
often still the strongest. Thirdly, benefits to ex-combatants will be implemented in such a way that they
help revitalize local economies, on both the demand and supply sides. Lastly, the institutional
arrangements allow for community participation in the identification, appraisal, monitoring and
implementation of sub-projects. Such arrangements could help overcome a sentiment of mistrust and
discontent on the part of the receiving communities.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annexes 2 and 3)
A. Social mobilization. Ex-combatants, as well as the general public, need to be aware of the project, its
benefits, as well as their respective rights and obligations. Hence, the project contains (i) a social
communication sub-component for sensitizing the local population, using various media; and (ii) a
counseling and referral service for ex-combatants, offering economic and psycho-social counseling and
employment referral. This component will be implemented by the Executive Secretariat with the
assistance of local counselors.
B. Economic reintegration fund. The economic reintegration needs of ex-combatants vary widely, based
on their socio-economic characteristics and aspirations. The project, therefore, offers a range of support
measures, on a grant basis, for skills enhancement and micro-enterprise development. Sub-projects will
be identified, prepared and implemented by the beneficiaries in cooperation with service providers
(NGOs, training centers, artisans, etc.). The district committees (see below) will appraise and recommend
or reject sub-project proposals. The component will be coordinated by the Executive Secretariat.
C. Social reintegration fund. To strengthen the absorption capacity of social services in the host
communities, the project supports small-scale social infrastructure and activities aimed at reinforcing
social cohesion in the ten most severely affected communities. These communities have been selected on
the basis of ex-combatant population and poverty level and will be allocated US$ 30,000. They will
identify local priority social needs, and specialized NGOs will be contracted to implement the
interventions addressing these needs in close collaboration with the relevant government departments.
D. Assistance to disabled ex-combatants. Rehabilitation assistance to disabled ex-combatants from the
AND, FNP and FRUD includes the provision of medical services, the provision of prostheses and other
aids, special rehabilitation training and special services to the severely disabled. This component will be
implemented through the Ministry of Health and Social Services (Peltier Hospital), the rehabilitation
center for the disabled as well as through specialized NGOs and training institutes.
E. Project implementation. The operating costs for the first 15 months of operation, as well as major
equipment, will be covered under a separate ongoing Bank project (see Section C.5 below). Funding
requirements in these two areas are, therefore, limited. The project also finances capacity building for
project implementation at both the central and local levels and the carrying out of studies to better



Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project  5
understand the project's economic and social impact. Capacity building measures and studies, as well as
two external audits, will be undertaken by consultants (firms or individuaals).
Component                 Category        Cost incl. Cont.   % of   Bank-fin.   % Bank-
(US$ m)      Total    (IJS$ m)   financing
A. Social mobilization       Capacity building         0.16          5        0.15        89
B. Economic reintegration fund   Micro-projects         1.83         58       1.56        85.
C. Social reintegration fund  Institution building     0.30          9        0.26        85
D. Assistance to the disabled  Capacity building       0.44          14       0.36        80
E. Project implementation    Project management        0.44          14       0.41        95
Total      3.18         100       2.73        86
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The Government is currently undertaking adjustment and reform efforts that are supported by a second
stand-by arrangement with the IMF. An ESAF arrangement (Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility) is
possible in 1999, for which further fiscal consolidation will be an important prerequisite. A reduction in
the wage bill, and hence military downsizing, are key elements of this overall reform process. ThePAAC
reduces the share of military expenditure in government recurrent expenditure from almost 36% in 1994
to almost 21% with the completion of the demobilization program. Annual savings from thePAAC are
estimated in the order of US$ 15 million. The project does not directly contribute to fiscal consolidation.
However, it helps cushion the potentially negative impact of such consolidation on retrenched soldiers
and policemen, as well as provide a safety net for members of the former rebel forces.
3. Benefits and target population
The project provides benefits to ex-combatants upon their request, supporting micro-initiatives designed
by and for ex-combatants. The project is, thus, a demand-driven response to the expressed needs of the
beneficiaries. Socio-economic baseline data for all ex-combatants, to be collected during the start-up
phase of the project, will throw light on where such demands lie. Project benefits will be balanced
geographically across districts.
Benefits include access to: an information and counseling service; literacy training; grants for micro-
projects; the provision of formal and informal training; job referral (including to their pre-service
occupation); community services and social activities; medical services for the disabled; and capacity
strengthening. Regarding training and employmeint, special emphasis will be placed on informal sector
apprenticeships which provide simultaneous on-the-job training for technical, administrative, and
commercial skills.
The project's primary target group are 12,300 ex-combatants demobilized from the AND and FNP3 as
well as an estimated 3,000 ex-combatants of the former rebel forces.4 If underemployed or unemployed,
3      Approximately 7,000 have volunteered for demobilization, whereas the services of the remaining 5,200 are
no longer required.
4      As part of the Peace Accord, 500 FRUD ex-combatants were integrated into the AND, 200 into the FNP,
and another 200 into the civil service. The project covers the remaining FRUD ex-combatants, including the 500
who are eligible to receive a departure allowance. The exact number of FRUD ex-combatants will be established
during registration at start-up (see also Section F.3 below).



6         Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
they will be eligible as individuals (for instance for counseling services and training) and in groups
(mainly for micro-projects). The formation of mixed groups (ex-combatants/civilians) will be particularly
encouraged for two reasons: (i) mixed groups bring direct benefits to other members of the host
community; and (ii) ex-combatants have access to skills they themselves may not yet possess.
Dependents and widows and orphans could access benefits in lieu of eligible ex-combatants.
In preparation of the PAAC, a short socio-economic survey was carried out in late 1995 to determine
demographic characteristics, needs and aspirations of AND and FNP ex-combatants. Overall, the 3,308
FNP ex-policemen are better qualified, and hence may integrate - find gainful employment - more easily,
than the 4,916 AND ex-soldiers. (A short profile is presented below.) Assistance will be provided for
sub-project proposals of acceptable quality (see Section C.5 below) on a first-come first-served basis.
Overall, the project is expected to reach approximately 3,800 ex-combatants (including the disabled),
amounting to 25% of the overall target group of approximately 15,000.
Indicator                         AND                               FNP
PAAC target group:                4,916 soldiers.                   3,308 policemen.
Age distribution:                 37% are between 25 and 29.        45% are between 25 and 29.
Education level:                  82% have no formal education.     54% have no formal education.
Marital status:                   64% are single.                   53% are single.
Professional experience:          96% have no experience.           69% have no experience.
Source: Comite Technique de Demobilisation et de Reinsertion.
Though there are fewfemale ex-combatants5, every effort will be made to tailor reintegration assistance
to their needs where relevant, for instance through the provision of child care to enable them to
participate in a training course, or access to special counseling services. A project component is dedicated
to the estimated 650 disabled ex-combatants.6 Depending on the degree of disability, they will receive
medication and medical services, wheelchairs and prostheses, and special skills training.'
Ex-combatants are a highly vulnerable but not necessarily a very poor target group. To the exten.
possible, therefore, and to support the social reintegration objective, benefits should also reach thehost
communities at large. The project finances social services and social activities (such as basic health and
adult and peace education) to communities (villages) with a high percentage of ex-combatants in the
community's overall population and a high level of poverty in the community. Furthermore, the project
encourages the involvement of local NGOs and associations in micro-project design and implementation.
5      The mobilization decree of November 13, 1991 limited the number of female citizens to be mobilized to
1% of male citizens mobilized. As approximately 12-13,000 citizens were mobilized between 1991 and 1993, the
number of female soldiers to be demobilized is limited to between 100 and 150.
6      There are 487 disabled ex-combatants in the AND and FNP. In addition, an estimated 160 FRUD ex-
combatants are disabled. This estimate will be reviewed after the identification and screening process planned for
project start-up (see Section F.3 below).
7      The moderately and severely disabled ex-combatants of the AND and FNP are eligible to receive a
disability pension. For the 124 moderately disabled, this pension is calculated on the basis of their monthly salary,
the degree of disability and the number of years in military service. For the 14 severely disabled, the pension is
calculated on the basis of their monthly salary, the degree of disability and the probable number of years of service
(estimated at 20). Their pensions will be paid as an annuity beyond the duration of the project. These pensions,
which amount to US$ 511,000, are not included in the project. The PAAC envisages the administration of pension
payments directly and independently by the Ministry of Finance and National Economy.



Ex-Com batants Reintegration Project  7
The capacity of many local NGOs needs strengthcning, which will be provided by the project to the
benefit of their members and the wider community.
Though developed as an intervention primarily facilitating the social and economic reintegration of ex-
combatants, the project is conceived around the concept of an ex-combatant household. The spouse and
children, as well as other dependents are, therefore, eligible for certain types of assistance. For instance,
rather than training an elderly or disabled ex-combatant, a child could participate in a training course. The
same holds true for widows and orphans of the combatants who died in combat or are missing in action.
4. Institutional structure
The project will be implemented under the guidance and supervision of theInter-Ministerial Commission
for Demobilization and Reintegration, established for the preparation and implementation of thePAAC.
The Commission, inter alia, (i) formulates and coordinates all activities related to thePAAC/PRAC and
to the reintegration project; (ii) identifies problems related to project implementation and impact; and (iii)
undertakes all measures necessary for their quick and effective solution. The Commission holds quarterly
meetings, but extraordinary meetings can be called if necessary.
The Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration (SDR) was established by presidential
decree on February 10, 1997 as a civilian entity to implement the PAAC. Given the specific requirements
of a reintegration project, the SDR was reorganized by presidential decree on August 20, 1998; it will be
dissolved upon termination of the reintegration program. The SDR reports to the Inter-Ministerial
Commission and is responsible for the overall implementation and management of the project.
The SDR is headed by a Director and comprises four units: (i) information and counseling; (ii)
reintegration/operations; (iii) management information system; and (iv) accounting. The organigram is
provided in Annex 4. The SDR is responsible for ensuring (i) the implementation of the individual project
components in collaboration with other Government departments, NGOs and donors; (ii) the transparent
and accountable administration of the project (including procurement and disbursements); and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation.
At the local level, the SDR has established liaison offices in each district (Ali Sabieh, Dikhil, Djibouti
city-Balbala, Obock and Tadjourah). Each liaison office comprises a liaison officer, an experienced and
qualified project counselor and an ex-combatant counselor, all three familiar with the local socio-political
environment. It also includes an experienced staff from a competent NGO as technical assistance. The
liaison offices are responsible for (i) information and counseling, in particular for sub-project preparation;
(ii) coordination of the social and economic reintegration funds in the respective district; (iii) monitoring
and evaluation; and (iv) coordination with government structures and other project interventions. A small
antenna, staffed by two ex-combatant counselors, has been opened in Yoboki for counseling and
monitoring.
Each liaison office and antenna is assisted by a district committee %vtn representation from: the local
administration, including local representatives of sector ministries; traditional and religious leaders;
NGOs and local associations; the private sector; ex-combatants; local security (AND and FNP) and
FRUD; and the district office. The responsibilities of a district commititee include: (i) sensitizing the local
population; (ii) assisting the liaison office in project implementation; (iii) identifyiing and solving local
problems related to ex-combatant reintegration; (iv) sub-project selection under the economic and social
reintegration funds; and (v) reporting on the progress and impact of the project to central government



8         Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
authorities. Furthermore, the administration at lower levels assists the liaison offices and antennas in
project implementation.
5. Implementation arrangements
Implementation arrangements vary by component as briefly outlined in Section C.1 above. Detailed
mechanisms are presented in the project implementation manual. During implementation, the economic
and social reintegration funds will require closest attention, specifically the micro-projects and
community social services sub-components. The sub-projects to be funded thereunder for the benefit of
(groups of) ex-combatants and host communities will follow a specific sub-project cycle. The district
offices will organize start-up sessions for sensitizing ex-combatants and community members alike about
the steps necessary for sub-project preparation, appraisal and implementation. Sub-projects will then be:
1. identified by ex-combatants (and dependents), veterans associations or communities (the
"beneficiaries"), with assistance from the liaison office and antenna;
2. prepared by the beneficiaries in collaboration with a veterans association, an NGO Iocal or
international) or a private sector firm;
3. submitted to the liaison office; the proposal will include, among others, the beneficiary
contribution, a detailed budget and disbursement schedule, and capacity building needs;
4. appraised and recommended or rejected by the district committee;
5. approved by the SDR;
6. executed by the beneficiary in collaboration with a veterans association, an NGO or a private
sector firm; and
7. monitored and evaluated by the liaison office, antenna and district committee.
The beneficiaries (as well as the partner agency, if any), will be contracted by the liaison office after
confirmation of a sub-project. Sub-project appraisal will follow specific guidelines to ensure - to the
extent possible - sub-project sustainability, including institutional, economic, financial, social and, if
applicable, environmental criteria as specified in the project implementation manual.
Accounting, auditing andfinancial reporting (see Annex 5). As a general rule, financial management will
be undertaken centrally by the SDR. The SDR will include an accountant who will be assisted by an
experienced financial expert for the establishment of a computerized project financial management
system, including accounting and internal control systems capable of recording and reporting reliably all
assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project. The accountant will maintain project accounts
and produce annual financial statements in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
principles.
Payment to beneficiaries, NGOs, suppliers, etc., will be effected directly by the SDR according to the
approved payment schedules specified in the project implementation manual. All sub-projects will be
required to keep proper books of accounts and issue annual sources and applications of funds, with the
assistance of NGOs, if necessary, in a format specified in the project implementation manual. The
accountant will be trained on IDA financial reporting requirements and procedures by a Financial
Management Specialist from the Bank.



Ex-Conmbatants Reintegration Project    9
Project accounts, the accounts of a randomly selected number of sub-projects, and the accounts of NGOs
participating as executing agencies will be audited annually by an independent, internationally reputable
firm under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The audit firm will conduct an interim audit (9
months into the project fiscal year) and a final audit at the end of the project fiscal year. The interim audit
will provide a detailed and comprehensive review of the project internal control system and make
practical recommendations for its improvement. An interim report to that effect will be issued within two
weeks of the end of the assignment.
During the final audit the auditor will be required to produce: (i) an audit report including an opinion on
the financial statements and separate opinions on the utilization of statements of expenses and the
management of the Special Account and (ii) a management report documenting the implementation of the
recommendations of the interim report and providing additional recommendations for further
improvement. The reports will be provided within six (6) months of the close of the project fiscal year.
In order to facilitate project implementation, a Special Account will be opened in the central bank under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The establishment of a sound and reliable financial
management system is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Monitoring. Project monitoring is the primary responsibility of the SDR. To this end, it will develop and
apply a computerized management information system. The SDR will collect socio-economic baseline
information of all ex-combatants during start-up and update this information during implementation. Such
information will be critical to trace ex-combatants during the reintegration phase and identify and solve
problems as they arise.
Sub-project implementers will have to submit quarterly financial reports to the respective district office
(liaison office or antenna). Monitoring of sub-projects will be the duty of the district offices, assisted by
the district committees. Standardized monitoring forms are included in the project implementation manual
to facilitate monitoring and situation analyses. These forms also contain objectively verifiable indicators
of project performance to allow for easy comparison. The liaison offices will prepare short monthly
district implementation progress reports which will be summarized by the SDR into monthly financial
and implementation monitoring reports. On a quarterly basis, the SDR will prepare a more detailed
situation analysis for submission to thie Inter-Ministerial Commission and IDA.
Evaluation. During the life of the project, two external evaluations, one mid-term, one final, will be
contracted to independent consultants. Both evaluations will analyze: (i) the achievements in project
implementation; (ii) the impact on the ex-combatant families and host communities; and (iii) the
appropriateness of the institutional arrangements and administrative mechanisms. Both evaluations will
be based on (i) the internal management information system and the financial monitoring reports; and (ii)
a beneficiary and community assessment to evaluate impact on the ground. The mid-term evaluation will
be followed by the Bank's mid-term review mission.
Special arrangements. Until December 1999, the costs of the SDR, including the district offices and
technical assistance, will be funded under IDA's PATARE credit. The reintegration project is expected to
be completed by June 30, 2000. Hence, the project will finance operating costs for the last few months of
implementation. Being funded as part of the PATARE project, procurement, disbursement and auditing
arrangements are similar to enhance synergy.



10       Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Socialfund/AGETIP-type approach. A social fund aims to reduce poverty and integrate destitute groups
into the economy. It is designed to fund local organizations, public or private, in a flexible and
transparent manner. A social fund is demand-driven in that it responds to funding requests from local
agencies and neither identifies nor implements projects. On the other hand, an AGETIP (Agence
d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Publique) is an independent executing agency for public works with the
aim of creating employment using labor-intensive tc hniques.
Social funds/AGETIPs are oriented towards an extended target population, usually focusing on the poor
and otherwise marginalized groups. Treating ex-combatants within the social fund as a special target
group with preferential access bears the risk of creating discontent among the larger community.
Furthermore, the social reintegration needs of ex-combatants, their families, and the host communities
(such as psycho-social counseling and social communication) cannot easily be addressed using social
funds/AGETIPs.
Ex-combatants are a specially vulnerable group in need of targeted, time-bound assistance. Without such
support, ex-combatants are at risk of social and economic exclusion as a result of their lack of social and
human capital and financial resources. Unaided, they may resort to violence and rent seeking at the barrel
of a gun, and hence pose a danger to social stability. Yet, while treating ex-combatants as a special target
group, the project includes measures aimed at mitigating possible community resentment.
2. Reasons for using a Learning and Innovation Loan
For a variety of reasons, a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is the ideal instrument to process the
project. The LIL will test decentralized decision-making for a priority segment of the population, which,
if not addressed, can soon threaten the evolving social reconstruction and peace process. Ex-combatant
reintegration is uncharted territory in Djibouti. Locally viable economic, financial and social solutions to
successfully reintegrating ex-combatants into society following demobilization are not yet known. The
project will test aflexible, multi-sectoral approach to reintegration, aimed at responding to the particular
socio-economic characteristics of the target population.
The intervention entails providing menu options from which ex-combatants can select what best fits their
needs and aspirations. The approach is unique, and the combination of training through informal sector
apprenticeships, information/counseling, and community-based micro-enterprise development is expected
to facilitate the transition of ex-combatants into (self-) employment and income-generating activities. It
may be noted that although the Bank has been involved in preparing and implementing demobilization
and reintegration programs in other countries (see Section D.3 below), this is itsfirst self-standing project
exclusivelyfocused on the economic and social reintegration of ex-combatants.
A second innovation relates to a decentralized approach whereby the local administration and local civil
society participate in the decision-making process, thereby moving away from the country's historical
pattern of centralization. Decentralized decision-making and community participation provides an
innovative 'second generation' to earlier social fund approaches that relied heavily on intermediaries,
instead of empowering communities to take responsibility for identifying needs and priorities and
managing resources.



Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project   11
If successful, the project will set a good precedent with respect to decentralized institutional and
implementation arrangements for not only a possible second-phase related operation but also for other
future developmental activities, most immediately the Bank's CiviLl Works and Social Development
project slated for appraisal around mid-1999. Building local and central institutional capacities for
planning and implementing development projects is crucial for Djibouti, a country burdened with weak
central capacity and an inefficient civil service. Through experimentation and piloting, the LIL helps
identify the best institutional/implementation arrangements and helps assess local capacity for future
(reintegration as well as other) operations.
A further element of innovative design relates to the expansion of access to micro-project grants beyond
ex-combatants to include dependents and civilians. Indeed, encouraging the formation of mixed/diverse
groups augurs well for the reconciliation of communities suffering from the effects of war. This
innovation goes to the heart of building social cohesion and addressing issues of exclusion - an
underlying cause of conflict in the first instance.
The ground has already been laid through Government efforts, and CGovernment is firmly committed to
facilitating the reintegration process. A LIL - requiring modest funds and preparation time - lends
momentum to such commitment, and addresses the urgent need to provide assistance to ex-combatants
who lack immediate reintegration assistance, including information and counseling. As such, the LIL
could well serve as a key intervention in preventing the recurrence of conflict - given Djibouti's fragile
post-war society and continuing threat of internal and external conflict - by establishing small but
multiple successful examples of harmonious integration of ex-combatants into communities.
The mechanics of involving stakeholders in planning and implemenlation will be constantly improved
through monitoring and evaluation, in particular: (i) the carrying out of studies that aim at better
understanding the economic and social dynamics at the local level and (ii) a comprehensive management
information system for real-time learning (also see Section C.5). The final evaluation will determine the
degree of achievement of the project's objective and outputs. If thie project was deemed successful
regarding design, implementation and financial management; if the beneficiaries (ex-combatant families
and communities alike) were highly satisfied with project outcomes and procedures; and if Government
remained committed to inclusive development through ex-combatant reintegration, a follow-up
intervention in the form of a related operation could be envisaged, covering some or all of the remaining
ex-combatants.
3. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
Recently, initiatives have been started by IDA, the ADB, IFAD and LUNOPS. Although these initiatives
target different sectors, they mainly use social fund/AGETIP-type approaches for implementation. All
initiatives are currently either being planned or under preparation; they are being coordinated by the
National Monitoring and Coordination Committee (Comite National de Suivi et de Coordination des
R6formes). It is likely that ex-combatants will be among the beneficiaries of these interventions. Hence,
once operational, the SDR will closely cooperate with these complementary strategies, especially in the
area of (self-) employment generation, to avoid duplication of efforts.
In particular, the project complements the Bank's proposed Civil Works and Social Development Project
(CWSDP), which is currently under preparation. The CWSDP will not include support to micro-
enterprises, the mainstay of the reintegration project, and the latter does not finance larger-scale labor-
intensive public works, the major focus of the CWSDP.



12        Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
Sector issue        Project                                          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings (Bank-financed projects)
IP            DO
Bank-financed
Poverty reduction   Civil Works and Social Development Project; ID       n/a            n/a
44584; objective: improve living standards of the
poor, including low-skilled unemployed and ex-
combatants, through employment generation and
improving access to basic services; under preparation.
Technical assistance   Technical Assistance Project to Support Economic   S              S
Reform Project (PATARE); ID 44174; Credit 2934-
DJ; US$ 6.5 million; closing date: 06/30/00; finances
Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and
Reintegration.
Urban infrastructure   Urban Development Project II; ID 616; Credit 2203-  HU           HU
DJ; US$ 11.2 million; closed: 6/30/98.
Capacity building   Manpower Training Project (completed); ID 614;  Outcome: marginally
Credit 2080-DJ; US$ 5.8 million; closed 10/31/95.  satisfactory; sustainability:
uncertain; institutional
development: moderate; Bank
performance: marginally
satisfactory.
Other development agencies
Demobilization      PAAC, co-funded by Government, IDA, the Caisse  Until September 1998, some
Francaise de Developpement, the European Union and  7,700 combatants have been
the African Development Bank; US$ 17.8 million  demobilized; discharge
(plus US$ 9.0 million financed by Government 1993-  modalities are very effective;
96); expected completion (demobilization       financial administration is very
component): early 1999.                        efficient (with French technical
assistance).
Poverty reduction   African Development Bank: Social Development         n/a            n/a
Fund Project; under preparation
Rural development    International Fund for Agricultural Development;    n/a            n/a
definition and scope to be determined.
Post-war            UN Office for Project Services: rehabilitation of war-  n/a         n/a
reconstruction      effected areas; US$ I million available from UNDP.
IP: implementation progress; DO: development objectives.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (highly satisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (unsatisfactory), HU (highly unsatisfactory), n/a (not
applicable).
4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The Bank has been assisting various countries in preparing and implementing demobilization and
reintegration programs. Such assistance has often taken the form of technical advice and/or financial
support through reallocations from ongoing projects as well as through budget support programs. In



Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project   13
addition, the Bank undertook best practice work on the experience with such programs in selected
African countries (see Annex 8, Colletta et al.). The Bank's operational and analytical work points to a
number of lessons around which the project has been designed. Among the issues relevant to this project
are:
ECONOMIC REINTEGRATION
Ex-combatants constitute a specially vulnerable group in need of priority targeted assistance. They should
be assigned to target groups and sub-groups on the basis of their main economic activity and, thus, on
their differing needs and aspirations. This allows for the development of a differentiated, relevant, and
cost-effective approach. Disabled ex-combatants commonly require tailored training and employment
assistance, and their special medical needs should be met through the provision of specialized services.
Ex-combatants should receive no more support than is necessary to help them attain the standard of living
of the communities into which they reintegrate. To avoid the creation of a dependency syndrome,
assistance should have a specific time horizon. Information, counseling and referral services can assist
ex-combatants in crucial ways. Apprenticeship in the informal sector combines the benefits of vocational
training and employment at the lower end of the market and is, thus, a feasible and cost-effective option.
Micro-credit schemes can help ex-combatants secure their economic independence and self-employment.
They are, however, also the most expensive interventions and the most difficult to manage. Micro-grant
schemes are, therefore, preferable.
SOCIAL REINTEGRATION
Social reintegration is often eased by the support of an extended faimily network, and ex-combatants
might well be encouraged to reintegrate in the vicinity of their extended families. Informal networks of
ex-combatants - discussion groups, veterans associations, joint economic ventures -- are key elements to
successful economic and social reintegration. Efforts to strengthen social capital enable communities to
take development into their own hands and facilitate the reintegration of ex-combatants.
Care should be taken that ex-combatants are not stigmatized as unfit for military service or as conveyers
of disease, violence and misbehavior. Community sensitization and political awareness are paramount in
this effort, though the fears and needs of communities related to ex-combatant reintegration must not be
neglected. Furthermore, a community support program that provides visible benefits to the community is
a critical adjunct to assistance for ex-combatants.
INSTITUTIONAL CONCERNS
Central program coordination by one civilian agency with overall responsibility, balanced by
decentralization of implementation authority to districts and communities through existing organizational
structures makes for a powerful institutional arrangement. Ex-combatant counselors, as well as field-
besed staff, can perform crucial roles in facilitating reintegration. Local communities should be involved
directly in decision-making, especially on important local matters, so that scarce public resources are
allocated in a transparent and socially accountable manner.
To put scarce resources to optimal use, reintegration assistance measures should be ranked by simplicity
of implementation, with the simplest components first on the list, in particular counseling and community
sensitization. Once the major program objectives have been fulfilled, remaining activities should be
integrated into the government's mainstream development efforts. It: is advisable both to use existing



14       Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
government and NGO manpower, technical resources, and infrastructure and to avoid duplication of
existing structures and programs. The effectiveness of program interventions in relation to ongoing
development initiatives is maximized by careful coordination within government and among other project
promoters.
5. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
Military downsizing, coupled with facilitating the transition into civilian life of the retrenched soldiers, is
among the Government's top priorities. Since 1995, the Government, through the Technical Committee
for Demobilization and Reintegration and later the Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and
Reintegration, has been spearheading efforts at devising and implementing a comprehensive program.
The PAAC submitted to donors at the 1997 Round Teble as well as the PRAC have been prepared by
Government. It is in response to the Government's lead role and request that the Bank has been providing
technical assistance and has initiated preparations for the project.
6. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Government has been relying on the Bank to provide guidance in the conception of the PAAC and
the PRAC since October 1995. At the same time, Bank advice ana institutional support proved critical to
assure donors of an implementable and quality program, evideneced by their co-funding of the PAAC in
the amount of US$ 15.9 million. Hence, Government commitment and Bank input have been key factors
for launching this initiative.
The recent revision in the calculation of the departure allowance (see Section B.2) essentially crowds out
any reintegration support envisaged in the PAAC. Donor funding for the PAAC has been forthcoming
only with difficulties (see Section F.3), and it is highly unlikely that the reintegration program - as critical
as it is - would find further financial support. Nor would Government be in a position to finance such
costs, given the constraints of its economic reform program. Hence, the project enables the Government
to implement measures mitigating the effects of military downsizing and war-to-peace transition that may
be harmful to both society and the individual.
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Financial
There will be no direct recurrent costs resulting from project activities. However, the SDR will cooperate
closely with other Government departments regarding recurrent cost implications under community social
services sub-projects. Furthermore, the project will fund sub-projects through micro-grants, not micro-
credits. Hence, no arrangements for credit recovery are required. The Government's counterpart
contribution is 2% of total project costs, with another 12% being contributed by beneficiaries in cash or in
kind as part of all approved activities under the social and economic reintegration . .nds and the disabled
component (15% of each activity funded). Modalities for the payment of the Government's counterpart
contribution are included in the project implementation manual.
2. Institutional
The SDR was established and staffed prior to the implementation of the PAAC but requires
reorganization. Staff needed for the execution of the project at the central and local level will be hired



Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project    15
before the project starts. Efforts will be made to employ within the local offices qualified ex-combatants
who are trusted by their peers and communities alike. Staff training at the central and local levels, in
particular for counseling, sub-project management and monitoring and reporting, will be among the
critical start-up activities. Such training will focus on imparting practical problem-solving techniques.
The depth of the involvement of the district committees and local NGOs (including veterans associations)
will depend on their human resource and institutional capacity. Such needs will be identified during start-
up, and appropriate training programs will be developed and provided during implementation with a view
to foster people-centered, inclusive development. These activities will be closely linked to ongoing and
planned efforts by donors and NGOs.
3. Social
Socio-economic, political, cultural, institutional and social factors that affect the project at the local level
will be continuously monitored during implementation. Close coolperation will be sought with local
leaders (traditional, religious, modern) and local civil society to identify these factors and to devise
locally adequate conflict resolution measures. Such measures will enhance mutua! understanding and
build trust between ex-combatants and communities, thereby mininnizing possible disruptions of, and
maximizing the project's positive impact on, the community social fabric.
4. Environmental assessment
Environmental Category:      []A   L] B    [x] C
None of the activities financed by the project are expected to have an environmental impact.
Nevertheless, appropriate environmental aspects will be included in appraising sub-projects under the
economic and social reintegration funds. Specific environmental evaluation criteria are included in the
project implementation manual.
S. Participatory approach
The design of interventions aimed at economic and social reintegration benefited from a series of
consultations with ex-combatants. For instance, a socio-economic survey of combatants was undertaken
before discharge to determine, among others, their level of professional qualifications and their
aspirations once demobilized. Furthermore, focal group and key infornant interviews were carried out in
all parts of the country to better understand the economic and psycho-social dimensions of reintegration.
Lastly, veterans associations have actively participated in various project planning sessions.
Stakeholders                               Preparation      Implementation      Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups                COL               COL               COL
Partner agencieslNGOs                         COL               COL               COL
Training institutions                         CON               COL               COL
Local and central government                  COL               COL               COL
Other donors and agencies                     CON               COL               COL
IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: collaboration.



16        Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project will be implemented over 18 months to facilitate the reintegration of approximately 3,800 ex-
combatants during this critical transition period. Its sustainability will be viewed in terms of social
cohesion and the stabilization of the ex-combatants' economic situation vis-a-vis the general population.
Factors critical to achieve these goals are continued social peace and a favorable economic environment.
The project addresses these sustainability issues through, among others, (i) a sensitization program to
inform the general public (using public and popular folk media, workshops, etc.); (ii) the participation of
the local population in the decision-making process; and (iii) close links to employment-generating
interventions within a coordinated approach to long-term, inclusive development. Depending on its
success and on sustained Government commitment, a related operation benefiting (but not necessarily
limited to) remaining ex-combatants could follow.
It is worth noting, nevertheless, that reintegration is a long and complex process without a clear
conclusion. Many veterans, and in particular those not reached by the project, may remain or become
poor, requiring longer-term assistance through mainstream operations. Long-term sustainability is also a
function of regional developments, Government progress on basic economic issues, and longer-term
growth as a consequence of the development of the social sectors. The impact of the project, even if
successful, is thus recognized to be modest, limited to the demonstration value of improved community
acceptance, reduced banditry, and increased near-term social and economic welfare of ex-combatants.
2. Critical risks
Risk                                        Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
1. Outputs to Objective
Beneficiaries cannot rebuild their social       M         Social mobilization program: community
capital.                                                  sensitization, public information campaign;
social counseling: settling with close relatives,
counseling on rights and duties as a civilian;
devising local conflict mediation mechanisms.
Beneficiaries suffer from a dependency           S        Extended counseling that reintegration
syndrome.                                                 assistance: is not a right, is time-bound;
coverage of longer-term needs through other
programs and projects.
Concurrent strengthening of community social     S        Close collaboration with relevant Government
services not undertaken.                                  departments; recommendation on budgetary
allocation.
2. Components to Outputs
Local economies cannot absorb ex-combatants.    H         Link to other interventions that expand the
local resource base; monitoring resource
allocation mechanisms whether they disfavor
ex-combatants; economic counseling and
referral and attendant information collection.



Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project    17
continued
Risk                                       Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Insufficient capacity of local NGOs to assist in  S     Identification of capacity building needs
implementation.                                         during stlrt-up; development and provision of
appropriate training program.
Legal framework hinders development of the     M        Review of legislation regarding informal sector
informal sector.                                        activities; recommendation to authorities if
legislation restrictive.
Overall Risk Rating     S        Learning and adaptation based on continuous
monitoring will contribute to risk
minimization.
Risk Rating - H (high risk), S (substantial risk), M (modest risk), N (negligible or low risk).
3. Possible controversial aspects
PAAC financing. Following Round Table discussions, demobilization under the PAAC was planned in
three phases under financing from (i) France (last quarter of 1997), (ii) the EU (first quarter of 1998), and
(iii) the ADB (second quarter of 1998). France already provided approximately US$ 4.9 million for the
demobilization of a total of 2,785 soldiers. Demobilization underEU funding commenced in June 1998,
allowing for the payment of the departure allowance for a further 2,850 soldiers, including 228FRUD ex-
combatants. Funding for the departure allowances of the other 272 eligible FRUD ex-combatants, who
for administrative reasons had not been included in the PAAC, remains yet to be identified. Unless their
claims are addressed in due time, they are likely to become a source of instability.
The ADB has tied its contribution to the PAAC to an ESAF with the IMF, which has been postponed
from 1998 to 1999. This link will lead to a delay in payment and possibly outright cancellation, ifESAF
conditions are not met in due time. The consequences for demobilization would be substantial. The
demobilization of the remaining, approximately 3,000 combatants is now not envisaged before the first
quarter of 1999. If it stalled, Government would not be in a position1 to cover the shortfall, which may
amount to around US$ 5.0 million.
Such a delay would not jeopardize the rationale and implementation of the project as the reintegration
needs of the combatants already demobilized, as well as of the FRUD ex-combatants, remain to be
addressed. However, it would severely strain the Government's financial situation and may lead to the
temptation of using the project for financing the remaining departunr allowances. In addition, measures
may be drawn up that alleviate the short-term budgetary pressure but that do not respect the principles of
fairness and equity in treating ex-combatants. Such a scenario could lead to social unrest. It could also
lead to the putting on hold by the AND and FNP of further discharge operations if they resent such
unequal treatment.8 The Bank is assisting the Government and concerned donors iin finding a mutually
agreeable solution for the 272 FRUD ex-combatants and the final phase of demobilization.
Identification. During the civil war, membership in any of the forces transcended colonial boundaries. A
good part of those already demobilized by the AND and FNP are said to have returned to their homeland.
Yet foreigners mobilized into the government forces were granted Dj iboutian nationality upon discharge.
8      An extended conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia could likewise lead to a postponement of
demobilization. It is to be noted, however, that Djibouti has a defense agreement with France in which France
assures military assistance in case of external aggression.



18       Ex-Combatants Reintegration Project
The project does not extend benefits to non-citizen ex-combatants unless they are legally resident in
Djibouti. During start-up of operations, ex-combatants will be required to register to be eligible for
project benefits.
Prior to discharge, AND and FNP ex-combatants have been issued with identification cards, and each will
be required to produce this card, as well as supplementary documentation (discharge certificate and/or
nationality/residency card) upon registration. This system will help prevent leakages. In addition, local
authorities could be asked to cooperate and verify whether a particular person is known to reside at the
stated address. The identity of FRUD ex-combatants will be ascertained by verification missions to the
districts at project start-up. Supplementary documentation will be used to the extent possible, e.g. lists
prepared during FRUD disarmament.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Agreements to be reached during negotiations
*  Institutional structure and implementation arrangements at central and local levels.
*  Financial management, disbursement, audit and procurement procedures.
*  Procedures regarding identification of ex-combatants.
*  Extent of beneficiary contribution for approved sub-projects.
*  Areas of technical assistance and content of staff development program.
2. Conditions for approval by Bank management
*  Decree reorganizing the Executive Secretariat.
*  Finalization of project implementation manual acceptable to IDA.
* Receipt of a letter from Government containing a policy statement that: (i) constraints for
informal sector development will be removed to facilitate the absorption of ex-combatants; and
(ii) public and private training providers will have autonomy to design and implement modular,
short-term courses for ex-combatants.
a  Adoption of text on framework for establishing the district committees (specifying especially
their responsibilities and composition).
*  Selection of the ten most severely affected communities, following procedures acceptable to
IDA.
3. Effectiveness conditions
*  Staffing of the Executive Secretariat, including liaison offices and antenna, and physical
establishment of district committees in all districts.
*  Establishment of a satisfactory financial management system.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ]    The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x]    The Project Implementation Manual has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.



Ex-Ccombatants Reintegration Project   19
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Mr. Markus Kostner
ctor  anager: Mr. Nat Colletta
Cou    Director: Mr. Michael Sarris






Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance           Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS       1. Revitalization of local  *  ESW in social sectors,  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:                    production and           poverty, social assessment  *  Sustainable economic
Social and economic      employment opportunities;  (periodic).             reform and external debt
reintegration of ex-     2. Social cohesion in                              management;
combatants into civilian  communities;                                      *  Regional integration
life.                    3. Availability of                                 in the Horn of Africa;
adequate social services                          *  Sustainable human
for the poor and                                  resources strategy.
vulnerable population
groups.
Project Development      1. Acceptance of          *  Beneficiary and       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:               beneficiaries and their   community assessments    *  Local economy can
To demonstrate that      families by communities;  (mid-term and final);    absorb beneficiaries;
targeted, multi-sectoral  2. Degree of beneficiary    monitoring reports.   *  Complementarity
assistance to ex-        participation in                                   between and sequencing
combatants, including the   community social life;                          of related donor
disabled, can be effective.  3. Incidence of crime                          interventions;
related to ex-combatants;                         *  Stabilized national
4. Level of poverty among                         and regional security
beneficiary households;                           situation.
5. Level of dependency of
disabled ex-combatants on
family/community and
public services;
6. Assessment regarding
replicability of activities.
Outputs:                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
1. Communities           1. Level of               1. Beneficiary and       .  Beneficiaries do not
informed about project;    understanding by        community assessments    suffer from dependency
beneficiaries take       community of project      (mid-term and final).    syndrome;
informed decisions about   rationale and                                    *  Concurrent
findig (self-) employment responsibilities;                                 strengthening of
and show acceptable social  assessment by                                   community social services
behavior.                beneficiaries of advice                            (personnel, recurrent costs,
received; assessment by                           production of prostheses,
communities of ex-                                 etc.);
combatants' conduct.
2. Beneficiaries engaged  2. Degree of cost-       2. Monitcring reports;    *  Beneficiaries rebuild
in sustainable and gainful   efficiency and continuity   sub-project completion  their social capital.
economic activities.     of economic activities    reports.
after sub-project
completion; number of
sub-projects financed.
21



22       Annex I - Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance           Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
3. Additional             3. Assessment by          3. Community
community social services  communities of the       assessments (mid-term and
provided to facilitate the    improved capacity of  final).
absorption of settling ex-   social services after
combatants.               settling of ex-combatants
4. Targeted assistance    4. Effective provision of  4. Beneficiary and
provided to disabled ex-    medical services and    community assessments
combatants.               prostheses, rehabilitation    (mid-term and final).
of center and adaptation of
houses.
5. Capacity established    5. Level of quality and    5. Monitoring reports
in SDR for effective      timing of monitoring and   (monthly); financial audit
implementation,           evaluation activities; rate   reports.
monitoring, and evaluation  of rejection of project
of the project; competent   proposals; rate of projects
sub-project cycle         with deviations; level of
management.               quality of financial
management; staff
development program
activities undertaken;
studies completed.
Project                   Inputs: (budget for each                            (Components to
Components/Sub-           component, including                                Outputs)
components:               contingencies)
1. Social mobilization:    1. US$ 0.16 million.     *  Disbursement reports   *  Sufficient capacity of
.   Information and                                 (monthly);                local and international
sensitization;                                                            NGOs to assist in
*  Information,                                                               implementation;
counseling and
referral.
2. Economic               2. US$ 1.83 million.      *  Monitoring reports     *  Legal framework
reintegration fund:                                 (monthly).                fosters development of
*  training;                                                                  informal sector.
. micro-projects;
3. Social reintegration   3. US$ 0.30 million.
fund:
* basic health;
. adult education.
4. Assistance to disabled  4. US$ 0.44 million.
ex-combatants:
. medical services;
* prostheses and other
aids;
. special training;
* special services.
5. Project                5. US$ 0.44 million.
implementation.
/



Annex 2
Detailed Project Description9
A.    Social Mobilization
Background and Justification
Although demobilization was initiated first in 1993, and despite the fact that acceptance by the host
communities is a key element to the program's success, the demobilization and reintegration program was
never fully discussed by Government in public. As a result, the local population has never been properly
informed about, and prepared for their important role in, the reintegration process. At the same time, such
a program has a national dimension as it affects society as a whole. Hence the need to inform and
sensitize the population about the objective and rationale of the program.
Ex-combatants commonly lack information about the economic opportunities available to them on their
return to civilian life. Furthermore, the longer their service in the military, the more used they are to the
exigencies of military life. Their social capital - which can be a circle of friends or peers providing
information, a sympathetic ear, credit and access to other productive assets - also diminishes over time.
Hence the need to provide information and social and economic counseling services to ex-combatants.
Objectives
- To inform the general public about the program's objective and rationale and sensitize them about the
challenge and responsibilities during the reintegration process for both ex-combatants and host
communities.
T To inform and counsel ex-combatants about project benefits, opportunities for economic reintegration
and their rights and duties as civilians and to refer ex-combatants to employment opportunities.
Sub-Components
INFORMATION AND SENSITIZATION
Information and sensitization activities will be undertaken throughout project implementation. Use of the
following media is envisaged: radio broadcasts (bi-weekly), televis:ion broadcasts (quarterly), information
brochures (quarterly), and a veteran pamphlet (including information on special topics, e.g., on how to
prepare a micro-project). In addition, regular seminars and meetings will be held throughout the country,
and field visits by high government officials to the districts will be carried out periodically. All related
activities will be organized by the SDR and its liaison offices and amtennas, and diistrict committees. Costs
are estimated at US$ 91,000.
The radio broadcasts will not only provide basic information about the program but will also be a
comprehensive source of information for ex-combatants, their families and the population at large. They
will address problems of all affected population groups, could give tips on day-to-day life, relate greeting
messages from one ex-combatant to another, supplement the colLnseling services with project-related
9      Implementation mechanisms for each component and sub-component are included in the project
implementation manual. Beneficiaries (ex-combatants, communities, etc.) will provide 15% in cash or in kind for all
sub-projects approved under the economic and social reintegration funds and the disabled component.
23



24      Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description
information upon request (e.g. how to search for a job), and present a few games (e.g. a crate of soda to
three winners per district every quarter). Such activities are expected to increase the popularity of the
program, increase listenership and thus generally increase awareness of this aspect of civil life.
The project also includes the use of popular folk media to present the many facets of social and economic
reintegration in a manner that effectively catches - and retains - the interest of the audience. Social
drama is proposed as alternative to classical teaching methods. It transfers the messages in the local
languages in a simple, easily understandable and entertaining manner to both adults and children. After
the development of the play (including equipment), the program will be shown in each district at least
twice per year. As entertainment is only the means to achieve the major objective of civic education,
several accompanying measures could be envisaged to complement the social drama, such as special (and
additional) radio programs, letters to politicians, or the preparation and distribution of an illustrated
booklet about the play. A local theater group will be contracted to implement this sub-component.
INFORMATION, COUNSELING AND REFERRAL
The information, counseling and referral service will assist ex-combatants in crucial ways. First, it will
provide answers to questions about access to reintegration entitlements and other more general issues;
counseling on job-seeking strategies; information and counseling on training and employment
opportunities; and advice on micro-project identification, preparation and implementation. Second, it will
offer a means for linking ex-combatants to such opportunities, thereby also integrating the education,
training, employment, and micro-project sub-components of the project.
Importantly, the service will also refer ex-combatants to labor-intensive public works programs financed
through other interventions. Finally, it will provide critical psycho-social support during the difficult
transition phase. The information, counseling and referral service will be implemented by the liaison
offices and antennas. A qualified counselor will be recruited in each liaison office. In all districts, ex-
combatant counselors will undertake outreach activities, visiting ex-combatants in the villages and
helping to solve reintegration problems sur place. Costs are estimated at US$ 72,000.
B.    Economic Reintegration Fund
Background and Justification
Discharge from military service signifies the loss of the main source of income for most ex-combatant
households. Coupled with the fact that many ex-combatants have neither finished formal education nor
acquired marketable skills, the economic outlook for many an ex-combatant is bleak indeed. The
challenge of economic reintegration is intensified by the extremely weak natural resource and economic
base of the country. Reintegration options into agriculture are essentially non-existent, and absorption in
the formal sector, including the civil service, is beyond the reach of unskilled or functionally illiterate ex-
combatants. Hence the need to offer options for economic reintegration, in particular in the informal
sector.



Annex 2 -- Detailed Project Description  25
Objective
- To provide ex-combatants with (i) opportunities to acquire ancl employ marketable skills and (ii)
financial assistance for proposed income-generating activities in order to enable them to lead gainful
and productive lives.
Sub-Components
SKILLS ENHANCEMENT
'he project provides opportunities for (i) vocational training and 6ii) apprenticeships. Forvocational
training, the SDR will contract existing training sul pliers for preparing and implementing short, modular
training courses that correspond to (i) the limited educational background of ex-combatants and (ii) the
needs of the labor market. In addition, in order to ensure that training is demand driven and enhances
consumer choice, the use of vouchers will be encouraged, enabling ex-combatants to purchase the
training they want. Implicitly, vouchers diversify and increase the relevance in the local training market.
The project does not finance the establishment of new training infrastructure.
Informal sector apprenticeships, i.e. the financing of training expenses incurred by artisans who train ex-
combatants, move the training provision closest to the point of emiployer, stressing learning by doing.
While they do not guarantee employment in and of themselves., they do place the trainee in an
environment which increases the opportunity for informal business skill acquisition and networking for
longer-term employment. In order to increase the employability of ex-combatants, tool kits for different
trades (such as plumbing, carpentry, and bicycle repair) will be provided after completion of the training
or apprenticeship.
Ex-combatants who fulfill the skills requirements for a particular job in theformal sector will also be
supported with apprenticeships. These will constitute incentive schemes designed to encourage formal
sector hiring as well as entry into pre-service occupation. Cooperation with the private sector will be
paramount in this respect, as employment opportunities in the civil service and in public enterprises are
very limited.
Local labor and product market assessments will be undertaken by the district offices, identifying where
demand for training and labor is the strongest. Regarding the formal sector, the SDR will be responsible
for contacting prospective employers and forwarding this informnation to the district offices to match the
particular job and personal profiles. Given the low literacy level of most ex-combatants, vocational and
informal sector training will contain a functional literacy component which could be offered through the
adult literacy program (see below). The skills enhancement sub-component will be implemented by
independent, public and private training providers in coordination with the Ministiy of Labor. Costs are
estimated at US$ 896,000.
MICRO-PROJECTS
The project will finance micro-projects of/for ex-combatants on a grant basis in any sector, such as
livestock, fishing, commerce or manufacturing. An NGO or private sector firm will assist ex-combatants
in all phases of the project cycle, if needed. Only ex-combatant groups will be eligible for such support,
and the inclusion of qualified civilians in these groups will be erncouraged for the sharing of skills.
Furthernore, ex-combatants will be required to contribute financially to the sub-project, in particular
through the use of their departure allowance.



26       Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description
Sub-project approval, by the SDR following recommendations from district committees, will be preceded
by a transparent appraisal process considering a range of criteria, such as financial, economic, social and
environmental aspects. Sub-projects that do not meet these criteria will be returned to the applicants with
a detailed explanation. Close adherence to this process will be important for ensuring the quality of sub-
projects and, hence, their sustainability. The sub-project cycle and implementation airangements are
outlined in Section C.5 and are presented in detail in the project implementation manual. Costs for this
sub-component are estimated at US$ 937,000.
C.    Social Reintegration Fund
Background and Justification
Communities are challenged by the return of ex-combatants in two ways. Firstly, communities have to
absorb the increased demand for local social services, in particular in basic health. Resource-scarce
communities may be ill prepared to cope with such an increase. Secondly, there may be uncertainty, even
prejudice, about the personal conduct of ex-combatants who are uneducated and used to a military way of
life. Hence the need to assist communities in reintegrating ex-combatants. The ten most affected
communities (villages) are eligible to receive support; these have been identified by the SDR in
cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of two criteria: (i) the percentage of ex-
combatants in the community's overall population and (ii) the level of poverty in the community.
Objectives
-. To strengthen local social infrastructure to absorb the increased demand emanating from returning
ex-combatants.
v To strengthen social cohesion through community activities, including education for peace.
Sub-Components
BASIC SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Social infrastructure in Djibouti is largely deficient, in particular in rural areas. The project will,
therefore, strengthen basic social infrastructure in the ten most affected communities. Activities
envisaged under this sub-component could include: the rehabilitation of primary schools, dispensaries
and markets; the construction of water points and latrines; and activities pertaining the environment, for
instance anti-erosion measures.
Specific sub-projects will be identified by the eligible communities and be prepared with the assistance of
specialized local and/or international NGOs. These services will be open for the entire population of the
particular community. This sub-component enhances the capacities of the existing system; it does not
reform the system or create parallel structures. It will be implemented by specialized NGOs in
collaboration with the respective ministry.
COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
The project finances activities that strengthen community social capital, including adult education
programs, civic and peace education, music and sports groups, the rehabilitation of religious centers, etc.



Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description  27
The local population will benefit from such activities directly or indirectly, and the sub-component, thus,
contributes to the Government's efforts at reinforcing social cohesion. The various activities will be
identified by ex-combatants and community members and be implemented by ex-combatants, mixed
groups, private and public schools and specialized NGOs. Costs for both sub-components are estimated at
US$ 300,000.
D.    Assistance to Disabled Ex-Combatants
Background and Justification
Assistance to disabled ex-combatants is important for two reasons. Firstly, as handicapped persons, their
reintegration into a community is more difficult, both economically and sociallly. Secondly, having
sacrificed their future for inclusive development in a united country, they expect compensation in return.
Responding to these particular needs, the disabled AND and FNP solldiers have already been examined
and placed into three categories: (i) those with disabilities of less than 10% (less severely disabled); (ii)
those with disabilities of between 10% and 50% (moderately disabled); and (iii) those with disabilities of
over 50% (severely disabled). Disabled FRUD ex-combatants will be examined at start-up. Assistance
provided under this component differs by degree of disability.
Objective
> To help disabled ex-combatants recover (most of) their basic mental and physical faculties to become
active and productive members of society.
Sub-Components
MEDICAL SERVICES
The project makes available to all disabled ex-combatants of the AND, FNP and FRUD free drugs,
medical consultations and other services, through a contract with a specialized service provider. These
medical services will be offered through existing facilities of NGOs arid the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs. Costs are estimated at US$ 117,000.
PROSTHESES AND OTHER AIDS
Depending on the type of disability, ex-combatants will receive prostheses, including necessary surgery,
physiotherapy re-fitting and, if required, replacement of prostheses. Furthermore, the severely disabled
ex-combatants will be provided with a wheelchair. These services will also be offered through existing
facilities of NGOs and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. Costs for this sub-component are
estimated at US$ 97,000.
SPECIAL TRAINING
The country's only rehabilitation center is deficient in both staff and equipment. However, without such
re-education and rehabilitation assistance, the moderately and severely disabled ex-combatants may not
acquire, again, some physical capabilities which make it possible for them to carry out professional
activities. The same holds true for the other disabled. The projiect, therefore, reinforces existing
capacities, through specialized NGOs and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, of the rehabilitation
center to the benefit of all disabled persons. Costs are estimated at US$ 113,000.



28       Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description
Though disabled ex-combatants, or one of their household members, are eligible to receive support for
vocational or apprenticeship training, their needs in terms of skills enhancement are often distinctly
different. Hence, the project provides supplementary financing to training providers and artisans to
accommodate these special needs (tool kits, facilities, etc.). Costs are estimated at US$ 56,000.
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE
Severely disabled ex-combatants have particular housing needs. Having been provided with a wheelchair,
their houses need to be adapted without draining scarce household resources. The project, therefore,
includes support for accommodation, e.g. for the purchase of building materials and the hiring of labor.
This sub-component will be implemented through NGOs and/or private contractors and is estimated to
cost US$ 60,000.
E.    Project Implementation
Background and Justification
Due to the project's very nature, local administrative capacities for implementing a demobilization and
reintegration program are very limited. To establish such capacities, the Bank has been supporting the
Government through the financing of the Executive Secretariat, including its district offices. However,
the project not only consolidates, but also extends operations. Hence the need to reinforce local
capabilities for project implementation.
Objective
-  To ensure the appropriateness, efficiency and effectiveness of project implementation while at the
same time strengthening local capacities for longer-term, people-centered and inclusive development.
Sub-Components
EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
The SDR has already been provided with office equipment and vehicles. However, to allow closer
proximity to the beneficiaries, the project will supply motorcycles to all outreach staff (ex-combatant
counselors) in the field offices, as well as a vehicle for each liaison office. Communications and basic
office equipment will also be provided to the antenna in Yoboki. Operating costs (including personnel)
are covered by the PATARE credit until December 1999 and will be financed by the project thereafter.
Costs for this sub-component are, thus, estimated at US$ 296,000, including equipment.
CAPACITY STRENGTHENING
Skills of project staff will be strengthened through the provision of a staff development program. Such
staff training will focus in particular on counseling and practical problem solving as well as on
monitoring and reporting. Training sessions will be repeated during implementation to sharpen the
acquired skills. Furthermore, local NGOs and associations, including veteran associations, will play a key
role in sub-project preparation and implementation. However, their capacities are more often than not
severely limited. The project, therefore, includes district-level training sessions targeted at both district-



Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description  29
based project staff and representatives from local groups. Specialized NGOs and/or consultants will be
contracted to prepare and carry out these training programs. Costs are estimated at US$ 80,000.
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Special consultant services will be required throughout implementation to review and evaluate project
progress and to enhance the knowledge base about the economic and social reintegration of ex-
combatants. Such services include: two external audits, two community and beneficiary assessments and
two external evaluations (mid-term and final). In addition, a limited number of other studies will be
carried out, e.g. a social and an institutional assessment. Specialized, mainly local consultants (individuals
or firms) will be contracted to undertake these assignments. Costs are estimated at US$ 60,000.






Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                  Local          Foreign        Total
----------------------- US$ million --------------------
Social mobilization                                0.15                          0.15
Economic reintegration fund                         1.67              -          1.67
Social reintegration fund                          0.27               -          0.27
Assistance to disabled ex-combatants               0.40               -          0.40
Project implementation                             0.27             0.13         0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                2.76             0.13         2.89
Physical Contingencies                             0.14             0.01         0.14
Price Contingencies                                0.14             0.01         0.14
Total Project Cost                                 3.04             0.14         3.18
31



32         Annex 3 - Estimated Project Costs
Table A
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$, including contingencies)
CategorySltem                                       FY99         FYOO        Project         IDA      Counterp.
A.   Social mobilization
A.1  Information and sensitization                       30,310        60,619       90,929       73,559        17,369
A.2  Information, counseling and referral                24,000       48,000        72,000       72,000             -
sub-total     54,310       108,619      162,929       145,559       17,369
share/cumulative     54,310       162,929          5%          89%           11%
B.    Economic reintegration fund
B.l   Skills enhancement                                298,750       597,500      896,250      761,813       134,438
B.2   Micro-projects                                    312,500       625,000      937,500      796,875       140,625
sub-total    611,250     1,222,500     1,833,750    1,558,688      275,063
share/cumulative    611,250     1,833,750         58%          85%           15%
C.   Social reintegration fund
C. I   Basic social infrastructure/community activities  100,000      200,000      300,000      255,000        45,000
sub-total     100,000      200,000      300,000      255,000        45.000
sl. e/cumulative    100,000      300,000           9%          85%           15%
D.   Assistance to disabled ex-combatants
D.1   Medical services                                   39,000        78,000      117,000       99,450        17,550
D.2   Prostheses and other aids                          97,000            -        97,000       82,450        14,550
D.3   Special training                                  169,000            -       169,000      122,933        46,067
D.4   Special services                                   60,000            -        60,000       51,000         9,000
sub-total    365,000        78,000      443,000      355,833        87,167
share/cumulative    365,000      443,000          14%          80%          20%
E.   Project implementation
E.A   Equipment, materials and supplies                 127,000            -       127,000      127,000
E.2   Operating costs                                         -       169,131      169,131      145,792        23,339
E.3   Capacity strengthening                             26,800       53,600        80,400       80,400
E.4   Consultant services                                30,000       30,000        60,000       60,000
sub-total     183,800      252,731      436,531      413,192        23,339
share/cumulative    183,800      436,531          14%          95%            5%
Grand total                                      1,314,360    1,861,850    3,176,210    2,728,272      447.937
Share/cumulative                                 1,314,360    3,176,210        100%          86%           14%



Annex 4
Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration
Organigram
Inter-Ministerial Commission
for Demobilization and Reintegration
Chair: Prime Minister
Secretary: Director
Director
Administration                 Secretariat
Management                    Informnation,                Reintegration/
Accounting                lnfornation System             Counseling, and                 Operations
l __________________Referral  l
District
Com.mitees           I  Aiann offices
Project                     Technical
Counseling                   Assistance
Ex-Combatant
Secretariat                  Counselor
Yoboki: Two ex-combatant counselors only.                             33






Annex 5
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements"'
1. Procurement
General
Goods and works financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996, August 1996 and
September 1997. Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997. The Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration (SDR) will be
responsible for procurement. It will receive assistance from the PATARE project unit, which is familiar
with Bank procurement procedures. PATARE will ensure that SDR is adequately trained to manage the
procurement arrangements.
At negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Government that the procurement arrangements
outlined below will apply for the implementation of the project. In addition, a General Procurement
Notice (GPN) is to be transmitted to IDA for publication in the United Nations Development Business to
advertise for major consulting assignments. This notice is to be updated every year during the execution
of the project until all contracts have been procured. Procurement methtods and prior review arrangements
are indicated in Tables A and B of this Annex.
A.    Procurement Methods
Micro-projects. Micro-projects consisting of activities in livestock, iFishing, commerce, manufacturing,
community social activities, etc. involving works, goods and services not expected to exceed US$ 10,000
per activity for an aggregate amount of US$ 1.60 million will be procured competiitively in accordance
with procedures defined in the project implementation manual.
Civil Works. Civil works to be carried out under the project consist of the (re-) construction of small-scale
social infrastructure, the rehabilitation of the rehabilitation center for ithe disabled, and the remodeling of
houses for severely disabled ex-combatants. In view of the small cost of each contract, the works
contracts will be procured under NCB procedures provided that each contract does not exceed US$
150,000 and that the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$ 0.40 million.
Goods. Goods, consisting of prostheses and wheelchairs, publications, tool kits, furniture and office
equipment, above US$ 30,000 per contract for an aggregate of US$ 0.13 million will be procured under
ICB procedures. Procurement of prostheses and wheelchairs may be tndertaken using direct contracting
without competition on the basis of reasonable prices. Remaining iteims below USSi 30,000 per contract
up to an aggregate of US$ 0.19 million will be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures
(minimum of three quotations from eligible suppliers) in accordance with the project implementation
manual.
10    The project implementation manual provides detailed procedures for procurement, financial management
and disbursement.
35



36      Annex 5 - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Prior review arrangements. Goods and works contracts costing more than US$ 100,000 per contract and
the first three micro-project contracts per liaison office will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other
contracts will be subjected to post review.
B.     Consultancy Services and Training
Recruitment offirms. Consultancy services for studies, technical assistance and training requiring the
recruitment of firms will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Most of these services will be
recruited on the basis of the Quality and Cost Based Method (QCBS). Exceptions to the QCBS method
will be for the following: (i) the Least Cost Selection Method will be used for financial audits. For
contracts based on a shortlist of consultants estimated to cost US$ 50,000 or less, the shortlist may consist
entirely of national consultants if a minimum of three qualified consultants are available. For contracts
involving the use of NGOs for social mobilization, training and hiring community agents, the shortlist
may consist entirely of NGOs.
Recruitment of individuals. Individuals will be recruited in cases where a firm is not needed. Such
individuals will be recruited on the basis of qualification and experience in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
Prior review arrangements. All procurement documents for consulting contracts with firms, individuals
or NGOs for amounts exceeding US$ 50,000 per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA.
However, terms of reference and direct contracting will be subject to IDA prior review regardless of
contract amount. All other contracts will be subjected to post-review.
2. Disbursement
Use of statements of expenses
Use of statement of expenses (SOEs) will be made for expenditures valued under US$ 100,000 for goods
and civil works and under US$ 50,000 for consultants. Such use is contingent upon the recruitment of a
qualified accountant responsible for financial management, including maintenance of proper accounts and
preparation of project progress reports, ability to process and maintain SOE documentation, and
satisfactory annual audit arrangements. Provided this conditionality is met, SOEs will be used for all
expenses related to sub-projects, and expenses relating to contracts below prior review thresholds will be
claimed on the basis of SOEs to be available for review by Bank supervision missions at any time.
Supporting documentation will be retained by the SDR.
Special account
The Government will open a Special Account in US$ in the name of the SDR, with theBanque Nat.onale
de Djibouti to which project funds will be transferred. The SDR will receive an initial advance to
commence operations. The advance will be kept initially to a limited amount, while the project activities
get underway, but will be increased once full execution begins. For further disbursements, the SDR will
submit appropriate justification (bank reconciliation statements and other reasonable documentation) to
IDA. An interim audit of the Special Account will be performed nine (9) months into the project fiscal
year to provide a detailed and comprehensive review of the project internal control system and make
practical recommendations for its improvement. A final audit will be undertaken at the end of the project
fiscal year.



Annex S - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    37
Sub-Projects
The SDR will contract a large number of groups and associations for the: carrying out of sub-projects and
special assignments (e.g. preparation of staff development and adult literacy programs, provision of
prostheses and production of social drama). A prerequisite for all these activities will be the submission
of a detailed payment schedule which will be approved by the SDR. All payments under the contracts will
be made directly by the SDR. The liaison offices will only have access to petty cash to cover operational
expenditures. Implementers will generally receive an initial advance, to be followed by further tranches
subject to timely submission of appropriate justification.
Financial management for the sub-projects will be undertaken by the beneficiaries assisted by a
competent NGO or private sector firm. Unless an ex-combatant group has a bank account and adequate
financial management capabilities, payments incurred under such sub-projects will be effected by the
SDR on behalf of the beneficiary. Such payments will be to the account of the NGO or supplier in
accordance with contract payment terms.



38        Annex 5 - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method                      Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other        N.B.F.
1. Micro-projects                   -            -          1.59          -             1.59
(1.35)                      (1.37)
2. Civil works                      -          0.40           -           -             0.40
(0.32)                                   (0.32)
3.  Goods                          0.13          -          0.19          -             0.31
(0.13)                   (0.16)                      (0.29)
4.  Consultant services             -            -          0.70          -             0.70
(0.62)                      (0.62)
5.  Operating costs                 -            -          0.17          -             0.17
(0.15)                      (0.15)
Total project costs               0.13         0.40         2.65          -             3.18
(Financed by IDA)                 (0.13)      (0.32)       (2.28)                      (2.73)
N.B.F. means non-Bank financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value            Procurement         Prior Review Contracts
Category               (Threshold)                Method
US $                                          US $ millions
1. Micro-projects                 NA                   Competitive 1/                0.10
2. Civil works                  < 150,000                  NCB                       0.40
3.  Goods                       > 30,000                    ICB                      0.13
< 30,000                Quotations                  0.19
4.  Consultant services         > 50,000               Shortlist/3 CVs               0.20
5. Operating costs                 NA                       NA                       NA
Total:           1.02
See project implementation manual.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 1.02 million.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                       Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage 1/
1. Micro-projects                                   1.35                     85
2. Civil worl                                       0.32                     80
3. Goods                                            0.29                     91
4.  Consultant services                             0.62                     89
5. Operating costs                                  0.15                     86
Total          2.73                      86
I/     The disbursement percentages have been calculated to exclude Bank financing of local taxes and import duties. The
percentages to be applied to each invoice total.



Annex 6
Timetable for Training, Monitoring and Consultants
Activity                         Date/Period                       Responsible
Training                          1. Quarterly staff development   SDR will contract local training
sessions throughout project      provider(s).
implementation.
2. Quarterly district-level training
sessions throughout project
implementation.
Monitoring (technical and         1. Baseline monitoring information   1. SDR
financial)                        on ex-combatants.                2. Liaison office.
2. Monthly district implementation   3. SDR.
progress reports.                4. Implementers.
3. Monthly financial and
monitoring reports.              5. SDR.
4. Quarterly sub-project reports.  6. SDR.
S. Quarterly situation analysis.
6. Mid-term project progress
reports.
Studies                           1. Beneficiary and community     SDR will contract loca'
assessment after 9 and 18 months    consultant(s).
of operation.
2. Two studies after 9 months of
operation to further the knowledge
base regarding the social and
economic reintegration of ex-
combatants.
External evaluations              1. External mid-term evaluation  SDR will contract local
fourth quarter of 1999 (followed by  consultant(s) for external
Bank mid-term review).           evaluations.
2. Final evaluation second quarter
of 2000.
External audits                   1. End of nine months - interim  SDR will contract external auditors
audit (fouDth quarter of 1999).  acceptable to the Bank.
2. End of 12 months (first quarter
of 2000).
39






Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ 000) 1/                      Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
108.6                  83.4
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)             5                      5
First Bank mission 2/                              11/09/1997            11/09/1997
Appraisal mission                                 06/06/1998             06/06/1998
Negotiations                                      06/20/1998              10/05/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      10/01/1998            01/01/1999
(expected)
I/ Including funds from the Social Compact and short-term consultancies financed under the PATARE project.
2/ The project was identified during a supervision mission of the PAAC. The SDR commenced preparations
for the reintegration program thereafter.
Prepared by: Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Ncrme                           Specialty
Markus Kostner                  Economist-Social Scientist/Task Team Leader
Manorama Gotur                  Operations Analyst
Ely Dieng                       Researcher
Bertrand Ah-Sue                 Procurement Specialist
David Freese/Paul Vandenheede   Disbursement Officers
Sidi Boubacar                   Counsel
41






Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Manual
I.    Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and Reintegration. 1998. Project
implementation manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I .    Aide-Memoire, Assistance Program for the Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-
Combatants; October 1995.
2.     Aide-Memoire, PAAC preparations; July 1996.
3.    Aide-Memoire, PAAC supervision; April 1997.
4.     Aide-Memoire, PAAC supervision; November 1997.
5.    Aide-Memoire, project appraisal; June 1998.
C. Other
1.    Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996a. The Transition from War
to Peace in Sub-Saharan Africa. Directions in Development. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
2.    Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996b. Case Studies in War-to-
Peace Transition. The Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants in Ethiopia,
Namibia, and Uganda. Discussion Paper No. 331. Washington, DC: World Bank.
3.    Comite Technique de Demobilisation et de Reinsertion. 1996a. "Perspectives de
RKinsertion des Demobilises". Djibouti.
4.    Comite Technique de Demobilisation et de Reinsertion. 1996b. "Bilan de la Reinsertion
des Anciens Demobilises". Djibouti.
5.    Comite Technique de Demobilisation et de Reinsertion. 1996c. "Institutional Framework
and Implementation Arrangements". Djibouti.
6.    Cullen, Michelle. 1998. The Deconstruction of Conflict in D)jibouti. Mimeo.
7.     Secretariat Executif de Demobilisation et de Reinsertion. 1998. Programme de
Rdinsertion Economique et Sociale des Demobilises. Djibouti.
8.    Secretariat Executif de Demobilisation et de Reinsertion. 1997. Programme d'Assistance
aux Anciens Combattants. Djibouti.
43






Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                       and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                                            disbursements a/          Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Year                  Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD          IDA         Cancellations     Undisbursed       Orig  Frm Rev'd         Dev Obj         Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 8
Active Projects
DJ-PE-44174        1997               GOVERNMENT                  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 0.00          6.50            0.00              5.18          3.89        0.00            S              S
Total                                                                                                  0.00          6.50            0.00              5.18          3.89        0.00
Active Proiects       Closed Projects             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                           1.11                  45.64                  46.75
of which has been repaid:                              0.00                   1.53                   1.53
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                           6.50                  39.77                  46.27
Amount sold:                                              0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Of which repaid:                                         0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed:                                        5.18                    .05                   5.23
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU  highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
45






Annex 10
Djibouti at a Glance
1011196
Sub-   Low__
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan   mIdd_e-
Djibouti    Afriea  Income     Dewlopient damond'
1997
Populaton, mid-year (millions)                     0 64       614     2.285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US                              500     1,230                           Y
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     ..       309     2,018
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populabon (I%)                                      3.0       2.7       1.2
Labor force (%)                                               2.6       1.3     GPe                            Gross
Most recent estimate labtestyear avalalebb 1991-97)                           jcapita                      enrollmnent
Poverly (% of population below national poverty line)  45       .                                j
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)               83        32       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     50        52       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            106        90       36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           23                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               24        44       84
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                  54        43       19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  38      75      11i lDjiouti
Male                                               44        82      116              Lower-middle-income goup
Female                                             33        67      113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic mtioas
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..    0.37      0.49      0.50
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                                 9.2       9.5                    Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP                            41 3      41.3                    rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                    -7.7     4.2
Gross national savings/GDP                                    -0.5     -0.5
Current account balane/GDP                            ..       .1      -6.4     Domestic 4nveshnt
Interestpayments/GDP                                0.8       0.6       0 6                   4stic-    '     s
Total debt/GDP                                      34.2     49.7      48.6        n9s
Total debt servicelexports                                    4.9       6.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                    28.2
Present value of debtexports                                 81.2
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97    1996       197   199602
(average annual growth)
GDP                                        -3.1    -5.1       05Djiboui
GNP per capita                                                                       - - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rae of output and Investment 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   3.6       3.6     2
Industry                                                     20.4      20.5  o _
Manufacturing                                                5.7      5.7   *. 2?
Services                                                     76.1      75.8    4
Private consumption                                          74.2      78.3    4t
General govemment consumption                                33.5      27.9
Imports of goods and services                                58.2      57.0                   GDI          GDP
197646  1987-97      1996     1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture
Industry
Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption
General govemment consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services
Gross natonal product
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group averagi. If date are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.
47



48  Annex 10 - Djibouti at a Glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic pricese
(% change)
Consumer prices                                        16.4        4.2       2.0     s
Implicit GDP deflator                                    ..        4.1       2.6     4
Govemment finance                                                                    2-
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                  a
Current revenue                                                   29 5      27 5            92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                           .-19                       -3 8             -     GDP apIator    t  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -5.8      -81
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      ..         40       43      300
Other food
n.a.                                                                               200
Manufactures                                                                       2|
Total imports (cif)                                                200       203           |||
Food                                                                                100JE
Fuel and energy
Capital goods 
91   92   93   94   95   9e   97
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                              .                                     Exports        Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                      --_l
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)/ l
Exports of goods and services                                     223       231       0
Imports of goods and services                             .       287       291
Resource balance                                                   -64      -60
-10
Net income                                                          -3       -3
Net current transfers                                               38       32
Current account balance                                            -29      -32    -20
Financing items (net)                                               31       20
Changes in net reserves                                   .           -1      12     3
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        .        157      145
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)             177.7    177 7      177.7    177.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1t976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            17      125        241      243
IBRD                                           0        0          0        0                       Gil
IDA                                            0       11        46        46                                 B 46
Total debt service                               1        9         '1        16
IBRD                                           0        0          0        0                                      C4
IDA                                            0        0          1         1
Composition of net resource flows                                                        E 90
Official grants                               12       51        42        50
Official creditors                             7       21          6        2
Private creditors                              0       -2          0        0
Foreign direct investment                      0        1          5        5
Portfolio equity                               0        0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0         0         7      A - IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        4          1        3      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0          0        0      C - IMF                       G - Shorl-term
Net flows                                      0        4          1        3
Interest payments                              0        0          0        0
Net transfers                                  0        4          1        3
Development Economics                                                                                                   10/1/98



IBRD 23069R
Red Sa430'                                                                                                                        13;00 R CPUBLIC
N.                                                                       0                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF
See          RE~~~PU BLIC                                                                                                                                           YEMEN
ERITE                   OF                                                                                                         e,muO
YEMEN
TI> >   Gaff                                                        ERITREA                                                              Bob El Modeb
ETHIOPIA     i   Di oh          Adon        >3                                      .                                                                                                       30
I _2 Aden /30 o            -                                          / .                                                              /                            run
SOMALIA                                           *                                                                                                &r Pt Freru Iue,
This -op wos Pr pored    2;
byteMpUit ofY.f                                                                                                                             OSOCK
teWorld Bo-k.
The boundories, colors.
denorninotions and ony                                                                                                                                g       
other informotion shown
onthis weP  do  -ot/
The yWorld Beb rGoop ,' 
anpy  Idgnret ethe thG lt                      /                                                                      s
atto  ofanteror
or any *ndorsement                           5h000(/     
or accepanc  of such                            Mfh
boondories.                                J;         5g                                                                                                   *.T                     EN    /  
ETHIOPIA                                                R
K-00, ~ ~     ~        ~       ~ ~ X                                                                                                                                            12  ik  1 : f0  '% J
.F   2     A                              otn                 _       -       g                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GULF OF
rNi                                                    ^             ADEN
k a sA"' 'S  ;X Wk (>- A a; ( S                                                                                                                    X l',t,,~~~~~~~~~~~a  d
LAK'                 :    W'<;E PLATEAU''t@
| \ \ S < S , gg WN I                                                                                                                                       BOUTI
W.3~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                  PaLdARad
t g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~si;n Trck (National)
ETHIOPIA                          0O    0                                     SelectedVillagessad Towns    *    International AVport
600-Boo                                    District Copitsls            .. Airfields sond Ainstrips
400. 600
Loawneer o        0o        Sc        30        40         50                                                                (@    National Capitals
200.400                                                                  _;    Seasonal Rivcrs Wor'dis)
|   |   |                ;2L: --                                         -      D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ritrict Boundories
~~  c   so              w                             0.200                             -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     Intcrnational Boundariess  i  otFa
.72570  Spot Elarato8ne in Mtders                                                  .     Drinking Water
42-50'                                                   42;00                                                   53-00
DECEMBER 1996



