Report No. PID6367
Project Name                     Djibouti-Ex-Combatants Reintegration (@)
Project (Learning and Innovation Loan)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social
Project ID                       DJPE56419
Borrower                         Government of Djibouti
Implementing Agency              Executive Secretariat for Demobilization
and Reintegration
Telephone: (253) 35 06 98
Fax: (253) 35 50 85
E-mail: sdr@intnet.dj
Date PID Updated                 November 24, 1998
Appraisal                        June 1998
Expected Approval Date           December 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background
Country Background
Djibouti, a small country of 23,200 km2 at the Horn of Africa, gained
independence from France in 1977. Over the next 15 years, though ostensibly
remaining internally stable, the country suffered severely from the effects of
wars in neighboring countries. The first test for the young republic, the
Ogaden war between Ethiopia and Somalia in 1977/78, nearly bankrupted the
country by disabling the railway link to Addis Ababa, Djibouti's lifeline, for
a year. The turmoil in Somalia after the overthrow of President Barre in
January 1991 and the fall of the Mengistu regime in Ethiopia in May 1991 led
to an influx of about 100,000 refugees, exacerbating already existing
disparities between the Afar and Issa population groups. A civil war ensued
late in 1991 which in one year of heavy fighting (1991/92) resulted in major
destruction to infrastructure in the districts of Obock and, to some extent,
Tadjourah. The civil war formally ended in December 1994 with the signing of
the Peace Accord.
Djibouti has only very limited natural resources, no permanent waterways, an
insignificant manufacturing base, and very limited agricultural potential. The
country's single most important comparative advantage, the provision of
transport services to the region, had been undermined by the Ethiopian
government's preference of the Eritrean port of Assab over Djibouti after
Eritrea's independence in 1991. The reduction in budgetary transfers from
France and the reduction in the number of French cooperants and military
personnel in the mid-1990s have further worsened Djibouti's economic and
financial performance. The external effects on the economy have been profound.
GDP per capita (in 1993 prices) fell from US$ 1,505 in 1978 to US$ 770 in
1991. Per capita GDP further decreased throughout the first half of the 1990s.
Classified as a lower middle-income country, this indicator masks serious and
widespread poverty. In 1996, 45.1% of the population were estimated to live
below the poverty line (US$ 1,223 per adult equivalent).



Sector Background
The combined pre-war strength of the Armee Nationale de Djibouti (AND) and the
Force Nationale de Police (FNP) was approximately 4,500. With the onset of the
civil war, both AND and FNP recruited heavily to counteract the early
successes of the FRUD forces (Front pour la Restauration de l'Unite et de la
Democratie). By the end of the war, the AND and FNP had an estimated 17,000
men (and some women) under arms, representing a staggering 9t of the
economically active, indigenous population. The burden of military expenditure
on the Government's finances has been substantial, rising from 23.5w in 1991
to 34.9w in 1994.
Demobilization (entailing disarmament, discharge procedures and payment of a
departure allowance) already started before the end of the war in late 1993 by
which time armed struggle had essentially subsided. Up to August 1996, the
Government demobilized some 4,000 soldiers under its own budget. Thereafter,
the Government prepared a comprehensive demobilization and reintegration
program (DRP) to reduce its armed forces to about the pre-war level. At the
round table conference organized by UNDP in May 1997, donors pledged to
support the DRP in the amount of approximately US$ 16.7 million. While the
second part of demobilization started in the last quarter of 1997 with the
departure of 2,500 soldiers, a revision of the eligibility criteria (to curb
civil unrest by discontented ex-combatants) for receiving bonus payments for
front-line duty led to an increase of the program budget of about US$ 2.5
million, i.e. roughly the equivalent of the program's envisaged reintegration
component.
Strategic Context
The last formal Country Assistance Strategy for Djibouti was discussed in
1991. A new one is planned for the year 2000, on the basis of preparatory
analytical work over the next year and extensive in-country discussions
(involving government, civil society, private sector and other partners).
Present Bank involvement in Djibouti is guided by the government's 1997 policy
framework note which emphasizes regional integration, the expansion of the
resource base, and social cohesion as the strategic pillars of sustainable
development. Immediate objectives are to consolidate peace and jumpstart
economic growth. Bank assistance thus aims to help the Government (i) lay the
foundation for sustainable social and economic development through a process
of social and economic inclusion and employment generation, and (ii) outline a
human resources strategy for people-centered and inclusive development. The
Bank will also continue its support to the Government's efforts aimed at
sustainable economic reform.
2.      Objective
Within its program of fiscal decentralization and economic reform initiated in
October 1995, the Government accords center stage to the restructuring of
public expenditures from the military to social and economic development. The
demobilization and frictionless reintegration of ex-combatants into productive
civilian lives is the central element of this restructuring process. It is
also a prerequisite for social peace. Thus, the project development objective
is to effectively facilitate the social and economic reintegration of ex-
combatants into civilian life through targeted, multi-sectoral assistance,
validating, in the process, this innovative approach for use in other
- 2 -



countries facing similar post-conflict challenges. On the basis of the Peace
Accord, ex-FRUD combatants will also be eligible to receive such assistance.
3.      Description
The project will provide targeted and multi-sectoral assistance to ex-
combatants, their families and the communities of settlement. It will:
Inform and sensitize the general public about the program's rationale and the
challenge and responsibilities during the reintegration process for both ex-
combatants and host communities.
Provide social and economic counseling and referral services and offer adult
education courses.
Provide (grant) funds for economic reintegration activities (micro-projects,
training, employment); this would be a central component.
Provide funds for strengthening community basic infrastructure to absorb the
increased demand by ex-combatants and their families and for community
activities to strengthen social cohesion.
Provide assistance to disabled ex-combatants and their families.
Strengthen the capacities of local NGOs and the project implementation unit.
4.      Financing; Role of IDA
The credit will amount to US$ 2.7 million., and the Government's counterpart
contribution, including the contribution of beneficiaries, will be 14t in cash
or kind. IDA funding is needed: the revision of the eligibility criteria for
bonus payments to ex-combatants during demobilization led to severe
underfunding of the DRP's reintegration component, in which other donors have
not been involved. The project has innovative features (enabling its
processing as a Learning and Innovation Loan) and could, if successful, lead
to a larger-scale operation as well as serve as a model for multi-sectoral
reintegration assistance to ex-combatants in other countries emerging from
conflict. It proposes a flexible, multi-sectoral, demand-driven approach that
offers ex-combatants a menu of services, permitting them to select what best
fits their needs and aspirations. It would also initiate a decentralized
approach whereby the local administration and local civil society would
participate in the decision-making process. The project would thus help build
local capacities for planning and implementing subsequent development
projects.
5.      Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Executive Secretariat for
Demobilization and Reintegration (SDR) under the guidance of the Inter-
Ministerial Commission for Demobilization and Reintegration. The SDR - for
which substantial up-front capacity building is planned - has already
established district offices in Ali Sabieh, Dikhil, Obock and Tadjourah to
facilitate outreach and counseling activities. The SDR will closely cooperate
with relevant government agencies for the execution of specific components,
such as the Ministry of Health for the program for disabled veterans and the
Ministry of Labor for employment and vocational training. The implementation
of micro-projects and training activities will be the responsibility of local
and international NGOs.
6.      Sustainability
-3-



The project will be implemented over 18 months to facilitate the veterans'
reintegration during this critical transition period. However, reintegration
is a long and complex process without a clear conclusion. Many veterans will
remain, or become, poor, thus requiring longer-term assistance through main-
stream development projects. The project's sustainability will, therefore, be
viewed in terms of (i) the stabilization of the beneficiaries' economic
situation vis-a-vis the general population and (ii) social cohesion and social
peace. Key performance indicators will be, among others, the level of poverty
(financial autonomy) among beneficiaries, the incidence of crime related to
ex-combatants, and their acceptance by the communities. Monitoring and
evaluation will be a significant part of project activities, in recognition of
the 'learning' nature of this credit and the need to draw 'real-time' lessons
during implementation.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has provided technical and financial assistance to similar projects
in a number of countries and undertook a best practice study on DRPs in
selected countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Among the experiences relevant to
this project are:
Ex-combatants should be assigned to target groups and subgroups on the basis
of their mode of subsistence and thus on their differing needs and
aspirations. This allows for the development of a differentiated, relevant,
and cost-effective approach.
Factoring in security concerns, assistance to ex-combatants should not be
disproportional to the assistance to, or the living standard of, the poor
population.
To avoid the creation of a dependency syndrome, a DRP should have a specific
time horizon. Once the major program objectives have been fulfilled, remaining
activities should be integrated into the government's mainstream development
efforts.
To put scarce resources to optimal use, program components should be ranked by
simplicity of implementation, with the simplest components first on the list.
Such phasing in would also help build local capacities.
Central coordination of a DRP by one civilian agency with overall
responsibility, balanced by decentralization of implementation authority to
districts and communities through existing organizational structures makes for
a powerful institutional arrangement.
A DRP should not attempt to reform entire sectors of an economy. To the extent
possible, a multi-sectoral DRP should be closely linked to ongoing or planned
mainstream development projects to enhance synergy and reduce the burden on
implementation.
Continuous awareness activities help communities accept the returning ex-
combatants and their families. A community support program that provides
visible benefits to the community is a critical adjunct to assistance for ex-
combatants.
Informal networks of ex-combatants - discussion groups, veterans'
associations, joint economic ventures - are key elements to successful
economic and social reintegration.
8.      Poverty Category
The project does not have a targeted poverty focus. Its primary beneficiaries
are ex-combatants who are vulnerable as a result of their loss of income
- 4 -



source, their limited skills and their bleak economic outlook. Failure to
achieve reintegration, for instance because of lack of targeted assistance,
can lead to considerable insecurity at the societal and individual levels,
including rent-seeking behavior at the barrel of a gun.
9.      Environmental Aspects
The project has been placed in category 'C'. None of its activities are
expected to have an environmental impact.
10.     Contact Point:
Mr. Markus Kostner, Task Team Leader
Post-Conflict Unit
Social Development Department
Telephone: (202) 473 5886
Fax: (202) 522 1669
The InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
The World Bank
-5-



