Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3154 DJI
Development Credit Agreement
(Ex-Combatants Reintegration Pilot Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 23, 1998 
CREDIT NUMBER 3154 DJI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1998 between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated November 29, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a pilot program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
facilitate the reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian life  (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an Ex-combatant (as hereinafter defined), a group of 
Ex-combatants or any other group consisting, in whole or in part, of Ex-combatants, 
including a household, a community, an entity or an association which has received or 
applied to receive a Grant (as hereinafter defined) under Part B of the Project for 
the purpose of carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined); and “Beneficiaries” 
means, collectively, two or more such individuals, groups, or entities;
(b)
“District Committees” means the committees, established in each of the 
Borrower’s Districts (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 
98-0503/PRE of August 20, 1998, for the purpose of assisting SEDR (as hereinafter 
defined) in the implementation of the Project;
(c)
“District” means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower’s 
territory;
(d)
“Ex-combatants” means the members of the army and security forces of the 
Borrower and the members of the armed forces of the Front pour la Restauration de 
l’Unité et la Démocracie (FRUD) who were demobilized following the peace accord of 
December 26, 1994 concluded between the Borrower and the FRUD, and determined to be 
eligible in terms of the criteria specified in the PIM (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary or an Implementing Agency (as hereinafter defined) for the 
purpose of carrying out a Subproject under Part B of the Project and referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Grant” means a grant provided or proposed to be provided to finance a 
Subproject;
(g)
“IAPSO” means the Inter Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(h)
“CIDR” means the Commission Interministérielle pour la Demobilisation et 
la Reinsertion, the Borrower’s Inter-Ministerial Committee for Demobilization and 
Reintegration, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 
98-0503/PRE of August 20, 1998; 
(i)
“Implementing Agency” means a community committee or association, or 
other entity, responsible for the implementation of a Subproject for, or on behalf of, 
a Beneficiary;
(j)
“Project Implementation Manual” and “PIM” mean the manual referred to in 
Page  3
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement and setting out, inter alia, procedures, 
guidelines, manuals, timetables, and other arrangements for the purposes of carrying 
out the Project;
(k)
“SEDR” means the Secrétariat Exécutif de Démobilisation et de 
Réinsertion, the Borrower’s Executive Secretariat for Demobilization and 
Reintegration, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 
98-0503/PRE of August 20, 1998; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
“Subproject” means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be 
financed, through a Grant and referred to in Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for a Subproject, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out, of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  4
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 2009 and ending November 15, 2038. 
Each installment up to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEDR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, social, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project through SEDR in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the PIM.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
Page  5
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
SEDR has been fully staffed, and District Committees have been 
established in each of the Borrower’s Districts; and 
(c)
a financial management system satisfactory to the Association has been 
established for the purpose of carrying out the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
BP: 13
Djibouti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By /s/ ROBLEH OLHAYE 
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ CALLISTO E. MADAVO 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Subprojects
    990,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
under Part B of the
Project
(2)
Civil works
    230,000
80%
(3)
Goods
    210,000
91%
(4)
Consultants' services
    460,000
89%
and training
(5)
Operating costs
    110,000
86%
TOTAL
  2,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management, auditing, evaluation, and monitoring, 
including office supplies, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, travel 
and supervision costs, and salaries of contractual staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a)
in respect of a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and services of: (i) consulting firms not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (ii) individual consultants not exceeding $30,000 
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in preparing and 
implementing innovative pilot programs designed to facilitate the reintegration of 
Ex-combatants into civilian life.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Social Mobilization 
1.
Preparation and implementation of programs designed to inform and sensitize the 
general public about the Borrower’s reintegration program for Ex-combatants, including 
preparation and diffusion of radio and television broadcasts, preparation and 
dissemination of information brochures, preparation and organization of seminars, 
meetings, and field visits.
2.
 Provision of: (a) information and referral services to Ex-combatants to: 
(i) facilitate their access to training and employment opportunities, and (ii) 
strengthen their skills in the identification, preparation, and implementation of 
Subprojects; and (b) social and psychological counseling services to Ex-combatants to 
facilitate their reintegration into civilian life.
Part B:
Economic and Social Reintegration Fund
(a)
Promotion, preparation, appraisal, supervision, and evaluation of pilot 
activities to facilitate the economic and social reintegration of Ex-combatants, 
including: (i) formal and informal training activities to provide Ex-combatants with 
marketable skills; (ii) income-generating micro-projects, including livestock, 
fishing, commerce, and manufacturing activities; (iii) activities designed to promote 
employment of Ex-combatants in the private sector; (iv) strengthening of community 
infrastructure; and (v) improving adult literacy; and 
(b)
provision of Grants to finance such activities.  
Part C:
Assistance to Disabled Ex-Combatants
1.
Provision of medical and surgical services and equipment to disabled 
Ex-combatants, including prostheses and wheelchairs.
2.
Rehabilitation and equipping of the Borrower’s rehabilitation center at Djibouti 
City.
3.
Preparation and implementation of training programs designed to facilitate the 
reintegration of disabled Ex-combatants.
4.
Adapting private housing accommodations of severely disabled Ex-combatants to 
their specific needs and handicaps.
Part D:
Capacity Building  
1.
Strengthening the technical, financial management, organizational and 
operational capacities of SEDR in Project implementation, including its capacity to 
appraise, monitor, supervise, and evaluate Subprojects, through provision of technical 
advisory services, acquisition of equipment, materials and vehicles, and training.
2.
Preparation and implementation of training programs designed to provide local 
community groups, veteran associations, and non-governmental entities with skills and 
knowledge required to carry out their responsibilities in the implementation of the 
Project, including the identification, preparation, implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation of Subprojects.
3.
Carrying out of social and economic assessment studies.
Page  9
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $190,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and as specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
4.
Direct Contracting
Prostheses and wheelchairs may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (i) each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and (ii) the first three contracts for works and goods for 
Subprojects regardless of their estimated cost. 
Page  10
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General 
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The shortlist of consultants for all services, with the exception of those for 
auditing, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning  
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)), 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
non-governmental organizations estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, 
Page  11
but less than the equivalent of $50,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)), 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
I.
Overall Project Implementation 
1.
CIDR shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the implementation of 
the Project. 
2.
SEDR shall be responsible for the implementation of the Project in accordance 
with the Project Implementation Manual. For this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure 
that, at all times until the completion of the Project, (a) SEDR carries on its 
operations and conducts its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and 
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) the position of Director of 
SEDR is filled by a person having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association. SEDR shall carry out the Project in close consultation with the District 
Committees.
3.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply 
the criteria, policies, procedures, guidelines and standard contracts set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not amend 
or waive the Project Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, in a manner 
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
by the end of each quarter until the completion of the Project, furnish 
to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date on the progress of the Project.
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about nine (9) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out jointly with the Association a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things:
(i)
a review of the Subprojects financed under the Project, including 
Page  12
their geographical 
distribution;
(ii)
a discussion of the options for ensuring the long-term 
sustainability of the 
Borrower’s program for the reintegration of 
the Ex-combatants;
(iii)
a review of arrangements for meeting recurrent costs; and
(iv)
a review of the assessment of the impact of the Project by the 
Beneficiaries 
and by the communities involved.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program.
II.
Part B of the Project
6.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless SEDR has 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines 
set forth in the PIM, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified 
below and in more detail in the PIM, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for the reintegration of Ex-combatants into 
civilian life;
(b)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable, 
and environmentally sound, in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(c)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection; and
(d)
Subprojects involving involuntary resettlement of the population shall 
not be eligible for financing under the Project, unless an action plan for the 
resettlement of the affected population has been agreed upon with the concerned 
population and approved by the Association.
7.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out through Grants made pursuant to Financing 
Agreements, to be concluded between SEDR and the Beneficiary or the Implementing 
Agency, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, 
shall include the following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, social, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
Page  13
(d)
the right of SEDR to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Association, 
if the Association shall so request, the goods, works sites, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
the right of SEDR to obtain all information as SEDR or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the Subproject; and 
(f)
the right of SEDR to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary or 
Implementing Agency to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon failure 
by the Beneficiary or the Implementing Agency to perform any of its obligations under 
its Financing Agreement. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
Page  14
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
