Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCLUL USE ONLY
Report No. 9149
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 827-IND)
DECEMBER 4, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted dr,tribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
BRI Jan. 1 - Dec. 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton (t)       = 1,000 kg               - 2,200 pounds
1 hectare (ha)  - 10,000 square meters  = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -      Asian Development Bank
ALP         -      Annual Lending Program
ASCRIN.O    -      Indonesia Credit Insurance Corporation
BI          -      Bank Indonesia
BIMAS       -      Mass Guidance (a farm input-credit program)
BPKP        -      Agency for Finance and Development (National Auditor)
BRI         -      Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DG          -      Directorate General
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
IDA         -      International Development Association
INMAS       -      Mass Intensification (a farm input program)
KIK         -      Small Investment Credit
KHKP        -      Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
P&PTE       -      Extensification, Rehabilitation and Replanting of Export
Crops Project
RCP         -      Rural Credit Project
SEDP        -      Small Enterprise Development Project(s)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oike ca Dtctev-Gewal
Op"ati vaitwafi-,t
December 4, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDONESIA
Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. This project has not been audited by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withaout World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 827-IND)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .           ........................................................i
BASIC DATA  SHEET  ...............................................iii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .............................................                                        v
I.   INTRODUCTION  .........................................                                     1
II.   PROJECT  FORMULATION  ..................................                                    2
III.   IMPLEMENTATION  .......................................                                      3
IV.   AGRICULTURAL  IMPACT  ..................................                                    9
V.   FINANCIAL AND  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ......................                                  10
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL  PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT  ............13
VII.   ASSESSMENT  OF  IDA  PERFORMANCE AND  LESSONS  LEARNED    ....                              16
ANNEXES
ANNEX  1    Project-Related  Tables  ...............................                                    19
1.   Allocation  of Credit  Proceeds  ........................                                 19
2.   Project  Cost  Summary  .................................                                 20
3.   Project  Financing  ....................................                                  21
4.   Disbursements  ........................................                                   22
5.   RCP:   Annual  Lending Programs  ........................                                 23
6.   Summary  of  Subloan Disbursements  .....................                                 24
7.   Summary  of  Subloan  Disbursements  by Value  ....                      ........         25
8.   Location  of  Subloans  by Region  and Type  ....                      ..........         26
9.   BRI:   Term Lending  Training  Programs  .................                                27
ANN4EX  2    Agricultural  Impact  ..................................                                   28
1.   Key  Indicators  .......................................                                  28
2.   Farmgate  Prices  .......                ...............................                  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                                 Page No.
ANNEX 3   Economic and Financial Analysis ......................                  29
1.  BRI:  Summary Balance Sheet ..........................                 30
2.  BRI:  Summary Income Statement .......................                 31
3.  BRI:  Summary of Loan Arrears ........................                 32
4.  Summary of RCP Loan Arrears ..........................                  ,3
5.  Cattle Breeding Herd Projections .....................                 34
6.  Economic and Financial Returns - Cattle Breeding   .....               35
7. Economic and Financial Returns - Brackish-Water
Fishpond (Mixed Culture)  ...........................               36
Figure 1:  Comparison of Arrears Calculations ....              ..............    37
ANNEX 4   Institutional Performance
1.  BRI Lending Operations ...............................                 38
MAPS  -  IBRD 13186R
IBRD 13187R
IBRD 13188R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 827-IND)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Credit
Project in Indonesia, for which Credit 827-IND in the amount of US$30.0
million was approved on June 13, 1978.  The loan was closed on March 31,
1985. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on October 18,
1985.
2.       The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Asia Regional Office and is based on data received from the Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI), on the findings of an IDA mission to Indonesia in November
1985 (which included discussions with concerned Government officials and
visits to the major areas of agricultural development financed under the
project), on the reports on the mid-term review of the project in 1981 and
the evaluation study carried out under the project, and on reviews of the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.
3.       This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
T;.e draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on June 15, 1990, for comments by
August 3, 1990, but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA: RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal            Actual or         Actual as 2 of
estimate         current estimate   appraisal estimate
Project costs (USS million)                                   60.0                71.0                  118
Credit amount (USS million)                                   30.0               28.67                   96
Date Board approval                                           6/78             06/13/78
Date effectiveness                                          09/26/78           11/03/78
Date physical components completed                            n.a.                n.a.                n.a.
Proportion then completed (%)                               n.a.                n.a.                n.a.
Closing date                                                03/31/85           03/31/85                 100
Economic rate of return (2)                                     27                  40                  148
Financial rate of return (M)                                    25                   36                 144
Institutional performance                                        -                Fair
Agronomic performance                                            -                Fair
Number of direct beneficaries                               40,000              46,000                  115
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY79     FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85
Appraisal estimate (USS a)                             0.7      4.9      12.9     24.2      28.0     29.7      30.0
Actual (USS m)                                         0.2      1.8       9.6     26.1      27.1     28.3      28.67
Actual as X of estimate                                 49       37        74       108       97        95       96
Date of final disbursement                          10/18/85
Repaid to:
I-;ISSION DATA
Date   No. of    Man-days       Specializations   Performance                   Type of
Mission           (mo/yr)  persons   in field/a   represented /b          rating /c   Trend /d  problems /e
Preparation            02/76        4          40           A,C,E,F             -             -
Appraisal              10/76        6         180          A.F,E,G,T,L          -             -
Subtotal                      10          220
Supervision  1 /a      08/78        2          14             P,E               1             2             -
Supervision  2         02/80        1          32              F                1             2             0
Supervision  3         03/81        1          41              F                2             2            T.O
Supervision  4         02/82        3         110            F,C,G              2             1             0
Supervision  5         08/83        2          42             F,A               2             2             M
Supervision  6         06/84        1          14              F                2             2            9
Completion Report      11/85        2          20             E,C               -             -             -
Subtotal                      12          273
Total                         22          493
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                           Republic of Indonesia
Executing agency                    Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Fiscal year of borrover             April I - March 31
Name of currency (abbreviation)                Rupiah (Rp)
Currency exchange rate:
Appraisal year average                        USS1.00 -  Rp   415
Intervening years averaRe                     US51.00 -  Rp 690.5
Completion year average                       USS1.00 -  Rp 1,026
Follow-on project: None
/a  Under continuous supervision by RSI.
7Wb  A - agriculturist; C - credit specialist; E - agricultural economist; P - financial analyst; G - fisheries
specialist; T - tree crop specialist; L - livestock specialist.
/c  1 - problem-free or minor problem; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems.
7T  1 a improving; 2 - stationary; 3 * deteriorating.
7e  P - financial; H - managerial; T - technical; P - political; and 0 - other.



- iv -
STAFF INPUTS
(Stalf Wek.S)
FY78  FY74  FY75  FY78  FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY88  FY84  FYss  FY88  TOTAL
Preapprlsial       2.1  86.1  19.9  40.7  14.8                                                            113.1
Appraisal                 .0              112.8  26.8                                                     189.8
NegotiatIons                                     26.4                                                      26.4
Supervision                                       1.8   7.2   6.7   7.6  22.8   7.9   8.4   2.8  14.4   72.9
Other               .5           .0    .0    .7    .7                        .2    .1                       2.8
Total s          2.6  86.2  19.9  40.7 127.8  64.4   7.2   6.7   7.8  28.0   8.0   8.4   2.3  14.4  B85.2
* Excludes time spent by young professionals.



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 827-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The main objective of the project was to expand and improve the
supply of term credit to smallholders by: (a) providing funds through the
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for long-term lending in selected geographic
areas for a range of agricultural activities; and (b) strengthening BRI
through technical assistance and training, to improve its capacity to carry
out lending both under the project and under its other term credit
programs. BRI, the main institutional source of rural credit in Indonesia,
was responsible for project implementation.
Implementation Experience
2.       The project's onlending objective has been achieved.  About 46,000
subloans (15 percent more than the appraised estimate) were extended for
various agricultural activities.   This amounted to Rp 45.3 billion, with
livestock accounting for more than half of the total (Rp 23.8 billion),
fisheries, 38 percent (Rp 17.4 billion) and the remaining 10 percent by
perennial crops (Rp 4.1 billion).   BRI has also improved its ability to
deal with long-term loans with the assistance of consultants for the design
and establishment of better loan processing and appraisal procedures and
preparation of manuals, slides and training materials.  However, the suc-
cesses of the project are clouded by BRI's growing arrears problem which
has increased from 11 percent in 1983 to 28 percent of loans outstanding in
1985.   This has resulted from lending in high risk areas, more favorable
interest rate on saving deposits than the penalty rate for nonrepayment,
weak legal and enforcement functions, poor credit analysis, weak collection
effort, and inadequate information on arrears.   This problem needs to be
overcome by a serious, concerted and intensified effort by Government and
the concerned agencies.
Results
3.       An estimated 46,000 families, 15 percent more than targeted, have
benefited from the subloans end an estimated 4,750 man-years of permanent
or seasonal jobs have been generated in the rural areas.   Incremental
annual production from the subprojects is valued at about Rp 25.3 billion
or US$22.4 million, which constitute 197 percent and 73 percent of the
respective appraisal estimates.
4.       Project costs are estimated at about US$71.0 million equivalent or
18 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of US$60.0 million, due to a
larger volume of subloans (U5 percent more than expected) and the extension
of the consultants' contracts. The increased costs were, however, partial-



- vi -
ly offset by reduced expenditures for training and studies. A post-project
economic analysis of selected subprojects shows a weighted economic rate of
return (ERR) of 40 percent compared to the appraisal estimate of 27 per-
cent.
Sustainability
5.       Some of the momentum for long-term lending and improving BRI staff
capability has not been sustained because of the absence of a follow-up
project.   (The government authorities were not supportive of a follow-up
project because, in their view, the Bank funds were too costly.)  In the
absence of a follow-on project, however, a parallel project (SEDP III)
continued technical assistance to BRI to reinforce institutional improve-
ment.   BRI's rising arrears problem at the time threatened its financial
stability, but the institution is hardly independent of Government and
received funds at 3 per cent interest, such that its institutional future
was not in doubt. High economic and financial rates of return estimated in
the PCR suggest the enterprises funded will be sustained.
Findings
6.       The major implementation problems were those related to technical
factors of production, e.g., poor artificial insemination services, obso-
lete shed design, excessive water salinity ecc., and the lack of expe-
rienced credit officers to process and supervise the subloans. Poor trans-
port and communication facilities in the early part of the project hampered
the efficiency of credit personnel but these probleu.s were later remedied.
Technical assistance provided by the agriculture departments varied among
the regions and in general could have been better.   The large number of
credit programs being managed by BRI, with varying terms and conditions and
reporting requirements, impose a heavy administrative burden on the bank
and impede its efficient operations.
7.       The major lessons learned from the project are that:
(a) the 3ubloan categories in a credit program should be formulated in
a flexible manner in order to allow for changes in subproject
composition and approach to achieving project objectives.   The
Association should also consider open lines of finance, unres-
tricted with respect to farm technologies or on-farm uses of capi-
tal equipment for future credit projects (paras. 3.05 and 7.01);
(b)  the use of experienced consultants can have a significant impact
on a lending institution through assistance in programming of term
lending activities and introduction of better methods and proce-
dures of project and loan appraisal.  There is also an advantage
in having a single consultant firm responsible for technical
assistance with regular high level management reviews of progress
(para. 3.09);
(c)  The  training program was  satisfactory  largely because  it was
undertaken as an integral part of the main activities of the
project and the work of the consultant team (para. 3.15);



- vii -
(d) multiple credit programs need to be consolidated and the varying
lending terms and conditions of the financial institution rationa-
lized to provide a more effective credit delivery system to small
farmers and fishermen (para. 3.18);
(e) an adequate number of well trained staff is necessary for the
successful implementation of a credit program (para. 3.18) and
(f) an effective cooperation between the financial institution and the
extension service is essential in enhancing the technical and
financial feasibility of the subprojects (paras. 6.05-6.06).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 827-IND)
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01      The agricultural sector provides more than half of Indonesia's
employment, almost 25% of GDP and is a major source of income for about 66% of
rural households and 10% of urban households.  The major objectives of the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) for the sector are to:  (a) create productive
employment to raise incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food
supply to keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports,
particularly of tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's varied land, water and other natural resources. In pursuit of
these objectives, Government has introduced a wide range of assistance
programs to the agricaltural sector including credit schemes, extension
services and research. Until 1973, there was virtually no medium- or long-
term financing available to smallholders in Indonesia except for a few
projects for a narrow range of purposes financed by the Bank Group and the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). Since then the Government and Bank Indonesia
(BI), the central bank, have introduced national programs for medium-term
credit (1-5 years), Small Investment Credit (KIK) and Small Permanent Working
Capital Credit (KMKP). The Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) is the main institu-
tional source of rural credit in Indonesia for smallholders and has the
largest staff and branch network of the five state-owned commercial banks. It
is also the largest lender under the KIK/KMKP program accounting for about 53%
of the outstanding KIK/KMKP portfolio nationwide.
1.02      The most significant changes affecting rural credit in recent years
are the financial sector policy reforms introduced on June 1, 1983, aimed at
increasing domestic resource mobilization and financial intermediation and
increasing efficiency of resource use. The major refocms included a liber-
alization of interest rates, a reduction in the scope of rediscounting facili-
ties/liquidity credits and the abolition of credit ceilings. Deposit and
lending rates have risen sharply (from 6-13% p.a. to 17-24% p.a.) and the
lending rate for KIK loans was raised from 10.5% to 12%. However, the Govern-
ment and BI are still reluctant to bring the interest rates on preferential
credit programs mure closely in line with market rates. Thus BRI which
manages mostly a portfolio of preferential loans has not been substantially
affected by the June 1983 financial reforms. While its role is evolving, BRI
is still perceived primarily as a conduit of credit for government sponsored
programs rather than a financial intermediary.
Bank Assistance
1.03      The Bank Group has supported COI's objectives for the sector through
22 irrigation and swamp reclamation projects, ten projects in estate and



smallholder tree crops, five projects in transmigration, plus projects in
fertilizer production and distribution, livestock, fisheries, research, exten-
sion, seeds, etc. In financial development, the Bank's involvement has
consisted of financial and technical assistance to the small-scale enterprise
(SSE) sector through various financial institutions, as follows (a) an IDA
credit of US$40 million approved in 1978 .-. the first Small Enterprise
Development Project (Credit 785-IND); (b) SEDP II (Loan 2011-IND) in 1981 in
the amount of US$106 million; and (c) SEDP III (Loan 2430-IND) in 1985 in the
amount of US$204.65 million. Special surveys undertaken to evaluate SEDP I
and II have shown a generally positive development impact although the costs
had not been quantified. However, SEDP III is encountering problems related
to subsidized interest rates and an increased guarantee for P.T. Ascrindo
(Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation).
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
2.01      The Rural Credit Project (RCP), identified in September 1974, was
primarily conceived to strengthen the institutional capacity of BRI in view of
its importance to the country's rural development and to ongoing and proposed
Bank projects involving BRI. Two IDA missions in February and May 1976 assis-
ted BRI to prepare the project, which was appraised in October/November 1976,
with follow-up discussions in March and November 1977. There were no signifi-
cant cIanges from the original project design. Several components were sug-
gested for inclusion in the project such as financing for village-level stor-
age and rubber replanting, but they were subsequently included in other proj-
ects. A proposal to broaden the scope of technical assistance under the
project and to finance short-term agricultural credit as well was rejected on
the grounds of "overloading" an already complicated project. The major issues
raised in the course of project appraisal related to subloan interest rates,
subsidies to BRI, and the auditing of BRI and project accounts. The
Association accepted GOI's proposed onlending rate of 3% p.a. to BRI, and
subloan rates of 10.5-12% to ensure consistency with other existing pro-
grams. The Government auditors were accepted by the Association provided they
increased the coverage and improved the timeliness of their reports. The
Association also agreed to finance 50% of total project costs, including 40%
of local costs, in view of the shortage of funds for term lending and the
project's emphasis on small farmers. Project processing was delayed due
largely to an initial attempt to integrate the project with the proposed
SEDP I and, later, to efforts at resolving the issues common to both proj-
ects. The project was presented to the Board on June 13, 1978, twenty months
after departure of the appraisal mission.
Project Objectives and Components
2.02      The main objective of the project was to expand and improve the
supply of term credit to smallholders by (a) providing funds through BRI for
long-term lending in selected geographic areas for a range of agricultural
activities; and (b) strength2ning BRI through technical assistance to improve
its capacity to carry out lending both under the project and under its other
term credit programs, especially KIK/KMKP. Project components were as



- 3 -
follows:  (a) about 40,000 long-term subloans for pepper planting and replant-
ing, coffee fertilizer, cattle breeding, brackish water and fresh water fish-
pond development, fishing boat motorization, ice plants, etc.; (b) about 20
man-years of expert assistance in term-lending at BRI's head and regional
offices; (c) about three man-years of consultancy services for BRI's account-
ing, management information and related systems; (d) training for key BRI
term-lending staff; and (e) an Evaluation Study of the project's socioeconomic
impact. New subloan categories were to be developed by BRI for inclusion in
the project, subject to IDA and BI approval. In addition, any branch which
participated satisfactorily in the project for one year was permitted aggre-
gate lending for a "miscellaneous" category up to 20% of the amount of its
aggregate lending for approved categories.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      The Credit Agreement was signed on June 23, 1978 and made effective
on November 3, 1978. Selection of consultants took longer than expected and
the full team was not in the field until August 1979 rather than in April.
Revisions
3.02      Various technical factors over which BRI had no control (such as
coffee disease in Lampung and a ban on cattle exports from Sulawesi) prevented
project lending as planned. In January 1980 the restriction on lending for
specific commodities was relaxed, and BRI was allowed to lend for any agricul-
tural term lending purpose which it considered appropriate within the general
objectives of the project to expand and improve the supply of long-term credit
to smallholders. The! credit was reallocated twice on October 20, 1981 and
March 11, 1982, both times to provide increased funds for consultancy services
and training (Annex 1, Table 1). Techncal asistance was extended to include
two additional development bankers and cover other term lending programs of BRI.
Project Costs
3.03      Actual project costs are estimated at about US$71.0 million equiva-
lent which is 18% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$60.0 million (Annex
1, Table 2). The increase was due to a larger volume of subloans (15% more
than appraisal) and extension of the term-lending consultancy which resulted
in a 161% overrun in this category. The increased costs of subloans and tech-
nical assistance in term lending are partially offset by reduced expenditures
for training and the lack of expenditures for the Evaluation Study which was
carried out b) BRI rather than by a local university as originally planned.
Financing and Disbursements
3.04      Financing by category is shown in Annex 1, Table 3.  IDA provided
40% of the total cost, less than the 50% envisaged at appraisal due to higher
project costs and the depreciation of the rupiah against the dollar. BI
financed a larger share of the project cost, 40% compared to the appraisal
estimate of 21%, while BRI's share was 17% as planned. The findings of the



-4-
project Evaluation Study conducted in November 1984 estimated the subbor-
rowers' contribution to be negative in a few cases, i.e., the loan exceeded
the investment. This may be due either to diversion of loan funds to other
uses or the failure to account for the value of equity labor in the invest-
ment.
3.05      Disbursement generally followed expected levels although it was
initially slow due to the restriction on Lending to particular commodities and
locations (Annex 1, Table 4). The relaxation of restrictions in January 1980
gave BRI more flexibility to achieve project objectives and accelerated dis-
bursements. By June 30, 1982, 87% of the credit was disbursed, exceeding
expectations by 8Z. Disbursement was completed within the seven-year period
envisaged at appraisal. About US$1.3 million of the credit was cancelled due
to BRI's lack of incentive to claim reimbursements for its subloan disburse-
ments since they had already been financed by BI and any reimbursements from
the IDA credit would go to BI and not to BRI.
Subloan Performance
3.06      Annual Lending Programs (ALPs).  ALPs were prepared for each project
year for all subloan categories, with assistance from the consultants. They
were well prepared, in considerable detail, and proved of value in the field,
although the models given were frequently used by field officers as the bases
for subloans, without any amendments to allow for local conditions. Annex 1,
Table 5 shows the ALPs for each year, and the subloan approvals arising from
them. They were generally ambitious and the annual overall targets were not
reachet, although approvals in the livestock subsector were much closer to
targets than those in the fisheries and perennial crops subsectors. Over the
five years of project lending, total approvals were only about 37% of the
cumulative ALP targets, partly due to a tapering off of lending in the last
two years as nroject funds became exhausted. The ALPs for those two years
were also rather ambitious since they were prepared in the expectation of a
follow-up project which did not materialize. There was no follow-up project
because of the lack of support from the appropriate government authorities who
considered Bank funds to be too costly. No further ALPs were prepared for
term lending in subsequent years, so that much of the experience and
discipline in preparing them has been dissipated.
3.07      Subloan Disbursemnt.  As of December 1984, about Rp 45.3 billion
(US$66.4 million) were disbursed, exceeding appraisal estimates of Rp 23.7
billion (US$57.0 million) by 91% (or 15% of the target in US dollars) (Annex
1, Table 6). Almost 46,000 subloans were made, against appraisal estimates of
40,000 and the average size of the loan was Rp 985,000, well below the
Rp 5 million ceiling set for any single subproject under RCP lending guide-
lines. By value, livestock accounted for 53% of disbursements, fisheries 38%
and perennial crops 9% (Annex 1, Table 7). Cattle breeding and fisheries
subloans exceeded appraisal estimates by 94% and 32% but pepper and coffee
lending were only 27% and 13% of t;Ieir respective targets (Annex 1,
Table 2). A disease outbreak in Lampung restricted pepper lending and coffee
farmers preferred the cheap loans under the Extensification, Rehabilitation
and Replanting of Export Crops Project (PRPTE). The limited impact of the
project on perennial crops was largely due to the competition from PRPTE which



financed a wide variety of crops including rubber, coconut, cocoa, tea,
cloves, etc. at 6% p.a.
3.08      About 60% of livestock lending took place in Java, with the rest
widely spread among the other regions. Two thirds of subloans were for cattle
breeding, and a further 22% for buffalo and sheep. Loans for sheep breeding,
although a small amount in total, reached a significant number of small
farmers, about 5,000. About 48% of fisheries development was in Java, 47% in
South Sulawesi, and the rest (5%) in Sumatra. Brackish water ponds accounted
for 72% of subloans by value, still water and running water ponds 24%, with
the balance (4%) used for 46 hatcheries and 3 ice factories. The brackish
water fishpond subloans focussed on the intensification of production from
existing ponds, monoculture (milkfish) and mixed culture (milkfish and tiger
prawns). Monoculture was mainly in Central and West Java, and mixed culture
in South Sulawesi and East Java. Perennial crops accounted for only 9% of
project subloans by value, with pepper 50% of the total and oranges 26%.
About 56r of investments were in Sumatra (pepper, oranges and coffee), 22% in
Kalimantan (pepper and oranges), 15% in Java (oranges, tea and rubber) and
most of the balance (7%) in Sulawesi (oranges and tea) and Bali (vanilla).
Performance of Consultants
3.09      Project technical assistance consisted of the services of an econo-
mist, training specialist, three development bankers, and three technical con-
sultants (fisheries, livestock and perennial crops). The contract, signed on
March 30, 1979, provided for assistance to strengthen BRI's term lending oper-
ations and to assist in the implementation of the project and other medium and
long-term lending operations. It was later extended to include two additional
development bankers. Consultants also undertook the Evaluation Study which
was originally to have been done by an Indonesian university. The technical
assistance provided by the consultants has been of significant benefit to BRI,
despite the absence of a follow-up project and suitable counterparts to
expedite the transfer of knowledge. BRI benefited from having a single con-
sultant firm responsible for technical assistance with regular high level
management reviews of progress. The same approach was adopted with the
technical assistance for BRI under SEDP III.
3.10      Up to June 1982 the consultants provided guidance and assistance in
planning and implementing the project's lending program. Thereafter, when the
program was fully committed, they worked on consolidating progress already
made, and extending the benefits of the improved operating techniques to other
programs, particularly KIK/KMKP. All consultants assisted with training at
all levels - at the head office, regional offices, branches, and in the field,
and produced a large amount of training material.
3.11      Economist.  The economist was mainly concerned with the preparation
and programming of new term lending activities. This culminated in the prep-
aration of ALPs and their incorporation into BRI's total lending program.
Some head office staff were also trained in economic and financial methods of
project and loan appraisal.



- 6 -
3.12      Training Specialist.  After appraising BRI's training needs, the
training consultant assisted in the early establishment of a training program
in term lending, mainly for branch managers. However, the program stretched
BRI's limited training resources, and courses were discontinued in 1980. He
then formulated proposals to make training more cost-effective but these were
shelved because of diversion of resources to meet other :raining needs.
Changes in senior personnel caused some problems, but the major focus remained
on special training needs for term lending, and on providing short courses to
meet them. In retrospect the project's terms of reference for the training
consultant were too wide and beyond the scope of one individual. BRI did not
find the training consultant to be completely satisfactory but in 1982 decided
against adding a second consultant. In spite of BRI's dissatisfaction with
the training consultant, the training program results were adequate (para.
3.15).
3.13      Development Bankers.  The senior development banker acted as an
advisor at the head office, while the other four banking consultants were
posted to regional offices where they provided guidance and assistance, visit-
ing branches and making field visits as necessary. Apart from conducting
training sessions, they monitored project lending at branches, discussing
problems and solutions associated with errors, poor appraisals and inadequate
supervision. After June 1982 they reviewed the term lending systems, proce-
dures and forms, and made proposals for changes which BRI approved and intro-
duced. They also developed training material and a training program, and
helped to train the trainers.
3.14      Techrical Specialists.  At project commencement there was a fairly
low level of understanding among branch staff of important technical factors
affecting term lending. Many borrowers also had insufficient technical or
management skills to undertake new projects. There has been a useful improve-
ment in these areas, mainly through the efforts of the three specialist
consultants, reinforced by the build-up of the Research and Development Branch
of BRI, a requirement of the project.
Training
3.15      Annex 1, Table 9 gi  a a digest of training courses and on-the-job
training to staff at all leve      Most of the consultants participated at some
stage in the training provided under the project. Over 4,500 staff attended
the courses, around 30% of BRI's average total staff (15,500, excluding
Village Units) over the period. Some 6,700 were given on-the-job training,
just over 40% of the average total staff. After allowing for attendance at
both courses and training sessions by some staff, it is probable that at least
60% of all staff received some training in term lending. Although
implementation of the training program was delayed and the funds allocated to
it were alOt used up, the program was satisft or-- The funds were not fully
drawn because BRI used BI grant funds to fin.nce - major part of its training
program. The satisfactory results of the training program derived partially
from the integration of training into the main activities of the project and
the work of the consultant team, as a whole, especially the development
bankers.



-7-
Evaluation Study
3.16      At negotiations it was envisaged that the Evaluation Study of the
project's socioeconomic impact would be undertaken by Cajah Mada University;
however, the University's pilot study was unacceptable to BRI. IDA suggested
various alternative candidates to do the study, but none of them were able to
proceed. An impact study was finally undertaken by BRI with the help of a
project consultant. It was expected that the report issued in November 1984
would give financial and economic rates of return for various subprojects, but
this was not done since the data BRI collected on labor proved to be inaccu-
rate which made it impossible to evaluate non-livestock subloans in which
labor was a major input. The work of the study team was further hampered by
the delayed arrival of a computer required for data analysis, so that some
areas of analysis had to be abandoned. Further analysis could still be done
on the data already collected, either by BRI staff or university students
looking for research topics, and BRI should be encuuraged to pursue these
possibilities. BRI utilized its own funds for the study and did not claim any
reimbursement for this category. In spite of its late start, the study
provided a partial picture of the impact on production, income, and employment
of a sample of project subloans and gave BRI some experience in designing and
implementing an evaluation study.
Implementation Problems
3.17      Delayed recruitment of consultants postponed project start-up by six
months. This was followed by problems with cattle breeding subloans in some
areas where there were not enough extension officers for articial irsemination
(AI) and borrowers were unable to breed their stock successfully. A large
number of cows were therefore infertile for a season (particularly prior to
1982), which meant that some loans had to be rescheduled. This situation hes
however improved and is now adequate. Subloans for sheep breeding were
generally satisfactory except in the Cianjur district where the lambing rate
has been low due to high mortality rates in both young and old stock. An
obsolete shed design without individual pens was responsible for many newborn
lamb deaths, while a high incidence of disease and pests in adult stock led to
high adult mortality rates. Nearly half the farmers with subloans in this
district also received no extension assistance. Efforts are being made to
improve services in the area. Production constraints troubled some of the
brackish water fishponds financed under RCP, mainly due to excessive salinity
(preventing the introduction of tiger shrimp), flooding, and loss of fish due
to the continuing presence of white shrimp and mujair fish, which leaves the
ponds open to predators and parasites. The majority of problems met by
borrowers for development of still water ponds were related to water quality
and quantity, and theft. The sapply of fry has also been affected by ash
showers from Mt. Galunggong, but this was only a temporary constraint. Some
further investment to overcome problems of flooding may be needed, but this
affects all cultivators in the areas flooded, and will require government
assistance.
3.18      A major implementation problem was associated with the lack of BRI
credit officers to process subloans and effectively supervise the performance
of subprojects. BRI's poor transport and communication facilities also



-8-
initially hampered the efficiency of credit personnel but these problems were
later remedied. A problem facing BRI is the proliferation of commodity
specific credit programs which are difficult to administer, monitor and
evaluate because of their varying features, terms and conditions. The
reporting requirements also impose a heavy administrative burden on the bank
and impede its efficiency. To a certain extent, the Association, has not
helped this situation by utilizing BRI either as an executing or channeling
bank to onlend credit for its numerous Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects
and other agricultural production projects. In 1982 the number of credit
programs handled by BRI was about 297-, each with its own interest rate,
maturity and eligibility requirements. These credit programs which have not
diminished in number need to be consolidated and rationalized in order to
improve the operations of BRI and provide a more effective credit delivery
system to the smallholders.
Reporting
3.19      BRI regularly sent semiannual reports to the Bank's Resident Staff
in Indonesia (RSI), usually within three months of the end of the reporting
period. Although brief, they contained details of approvals and disburse-
ments. They did not, however, give loan collection rates in the form agreed
at negotiations (para. 5.02). Otherwise they were satisfactory.
Audit
3.20     BRI was slow to comply with the project's audit requirements due
to delays in completion of audits by the Agency for Finance and Development
(BPKP) owing to the Agency's organizatiorial and staffing weaknesses. This
problem occurred in most Bank group projects in Indonesia at that time.
3.21     BRI Accounts.  Audit reports were in a form and at a level of
detail which made it difficult to accurately assess some essential aspects
of BRI's financial condition. The reports were originally to include a
review of internal audit-controls, an analysis of the loan portfolio, and
some discussion on the arrears situation, but this was not possible until
BPKP's capabilities improved. The Accounting Development Project (Loan
2940-IND, approved in FY88) should mitigate the shortage of trained
auditors in Indonesia with impact on BPKP in the future.
3.22     Project Accounts.  Audit reports on project activities were
received with the BRI reports, and the 1984 report is awaited. As with the
BRI reports, they do not give a complete picture of the project's financial
condition. Nevertheless, they are generally satisfactory, by giving
details of irregularities within the branches audited and making limited
recommendations on general administrative problems. The latter include the
tightening of controls in specific branches where irregularities were
found, and the rescheduling of loans where arrears were not the fault of
the borrower. Arrears of the branches audited are reported, but specific
problems are not discussed. The 1981 and 1982 combined report (dated June
1984) also suggested that if a repeat project was being conbidered, more



- 9 -
attention should be paid to marketing aspects, particularly the role of the
middleman, since BPKP was of the opinion that borrowers in some areas were
not receiving a fair price for their production.
IV.  Agricultural Impact
Incremental Output and Prices
4.01      The incremental annual output at full production resulting from
project subloans is estimated at about Rp 25.3 billion or US$22.4 million
which constitute 197% and 73Z of the respective appraisal estimates (Annex 2,
Table 1). Production shortfalls in pepper, coffee, milkfish, carp and ice
were offset by significant increases in the production of cattle and other
livestock, fisheries and crops. Output prices were generally favorable to the
producers and exceeded the appraisal estimates in both rupiah and dollar terms
except in the case of pepper, coffee and ice (Annex 2, Table 1). Over the
five years (1980-85), prices of the major commodities financed have increased
by 12% to 133% (Annex 2, Table 2).
Yields and Technological Changes
4.02      Actual yields given in the Evaluation Study for sample subloans were
generally in line with appraisal estimates and the ALP models (Annex 2, Table
1). In cattle breeding, calving rates were generally in line with appraisal
estimates and mortality rates were slightly lower. However, overall herd
growth rates were usually below forecasts. In some districts studied,
although project stock formed a small proportion of the district totals, it
formed a large proportion of the increases in stock numbers. In cases where
subloans were given to farmers already holding stock, many sold off their
stock prior to receiving the subloan, so that there was little incremental
impact in stock numbers from project investment. For borrowers having no
livestock prior to the subloan, experience has been generally good. Although
some borrowers showed initial resistance to the relatively high cost of the
selected cattle, the better quality of calves produced has considerably
reduced complaints about prices. The use of fodder grasses, the cost of which
is included in cattle (and sheep) models, is uneven. It has been best where
government has allocated land for its cultivation, although in some areas
inability to establish pasture grasses has been due to lack of knowledge of
their cultivation, but the situation is improving.
4.03      In the districts st.died, the average unit size of brackish water
fish ponds under the project was much higher than the district averages.
Milkfish yields increased by more than forecast in the ALPs due to an inc:ease
in the number of fry used and adoption of new production technologies. The
earlier (1914) IDA-financed Fisheries Project II (Cr. 480-IND) was partly
responsible for the general acceptance of many modern production techniques.
For example, almost all farmers under the project used pesticides and organic
and inorganic fertilizers. Shrimp yields, however, were well below targets



- 10 -
which w',s unfortunate since most of the increased income under the project was
originally assumed to come from shrimp production and shrimp prices during the
project period were even higher than expected. The major cause of low shrimp
productivity was probably the use of very low densities of fry, around one
quarter of that recommended, because of a shortage of fry. More shrimp fry
hatcheries are now starting up, which should alleviate the problem. Other
constraints on shrimp production are excessive salinity and (often related)
water shortage. For fresh water fish ponds, production has generally
increased satisfactorily, despite some evidence of over-investment (excessive
concreting of earth walls). Fish yields per harvest have increased, and the
number of harvests per year has also significantly increased in most dis-
tricts. An analysis of overall results indicates that in areas where liaison
between BRI and extension staff has been good, production has been higher than
elsewhere. In general, extension services have been satisfactory, although
borrowers in a few areas have received no extension support, making disease
and insect control more difficult.
4.04      Average production yields for pepper were often higher than ALP
estimates, particularly in new land areas with good fertility. There was also
a positive correlation between fertilizer use and yields. While, future
pepper production could decline if the increasing incidence of yellow disease
related to soil nematodes is not stopped, the extension service is in the
process of informing farmers of the effective disease control measures
available. Pepper prices have been more than twice ALP estimates and,
although expected to decline, should remain slightly above the estimates.
Thus, the immediate prospects for borrowers have been good.
4.05      Beneficiaries Reached.  About 46,000 families, 15% more than
targeted, were financed by the project. Findings from the Evaluation Study
indicate that the average RCP borrower has an above-average holding ranging
from 0.7 ha in Cianjur to 10.5 ha in Indramayu. RCP borrowers also have other
income sources amounting to an average of Rp 490,000 to Rp 1,675,000 p.a.
Permanent or seasonal incremental employment resulting from the project is
estimated at about 4,750 man-years, 65% of which would probably be family
labor and the remainder hired.
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
BRI: Financial Performance
5.01      Summary balance sheets for 1979 through 1984 are shown in Annex 3,
Table 1. The relatively large increase in total assets between 1983 and 1984
was due to a loan from Bank Indonesia to finance BULOG operations. Total
assets in current terms increased more than five times over the 5-year period,
but only by about three times in real terms. Summary income statements for
1979 through 1984 (Annex 3, Table 2) show a marked increase in profitability
in 1984 and 1985, due largely to increased interest earned from BULOG opera-
tions and foreign exchange transactions. The various ratios shown in the two
tables are satisfactory excegt the debt-equity ratio which showed a dramatic
increase from 6.9 in 1979 to 28.1 and 30.2 in 1982 and 1983 respectively.  At
the 1984 level of 16.1, the debt-equity ratio remains high indicating an
inadequate capital base and high financial leverage.



- 11 -
BRI: Arrears
5.02      Under Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, BRI agreed to maintain
a satisfactory level of subloan collection performance, and to take measures
to improve J7e performance of branches that did not achieve an annual "collec-
tion rate" - of 70% under the project. This represented an attempt to amend
BRI's recording of arrears, which had normally been shown as a percentage of
the loans outstanding at the year's end. IDA also hoped that some progress
would also be made to improve data on the aging of loans. In spite of conti-
nuous pressure from IDA throughout the disbursement period, no progress was
made, and arrears continue to be shown as a percentage of loans outstanding.
This method does not provide meaningful data to management. In an ongoing
lending program it can give a misleading picture of the seriousness of the
problem, since the arrears position shown, particularly in the earlier years
of the program, will be very much smaller than if calculated by the collection
rate method, which shows the real loan collection performance. Annex 3,
Figure 1 shows a comparison of the two methods in two project areas. In
Pemalang, collection rates improved in quarters 5 and 6, but the BRI method
does not reflect the change. Similarly, in Cianjur the collection rate
through quarters 3 to 6 was good, but the BRI method shows increasing
arrears. Data on the ageing of arrears are also necessary to fully understand
the situation.
5.03      The following table compares BRI's end-1977 position given in the
SAR with that at end-1984. Data on the Bimas/Inmas input and credit support
programs have been excluded, as these figures distort the situation and there
is also considerable doubt whether the Bimas loans can be collected.
At December 31                       1977       1984
A.  Loans outstanding (Rp bln)                         357.3   3,957.7
B.  Loans over three months in arrears (Rp bln)         35.8      296.5
C.  B as X of A                                         10.0        7.5
D.  Accounts outstanding (thousands)                   446.1   1,814.0
E.  Accounts over 3 months in arrears (thousands)   35.8          330.2
F.  E as x of D                                          8.0       18.2
While the arrears as a percentage of loans outstanding has improved over the
period, the collection rate would undoubtedly have shown a deterioration.
This is borne out by the more than doubling of the percentage of accounts in
arrears. Actual numbers in arrears increased over nine times.
5.04      Annex 3, Table 3 gives a summary of loan arrears by loan category at
the end of 1984, and shows the impact of the Bimas/Inmas program, whose aver-
1/   Collection Rate:  defined as the amount collected during a given period
expressed as a percentage of the amount falling due during that period
plus overdues at the beginning of the period.



- 12 -
age loan outstanding per borrower is only Rp 3,300. Of total accounts in
arrears, 91% fall under that program.
5.05      The high level of arrears results from various external and internal
factors. Externally, inadequate information to borrowers on the status of
their loans, a higher interest rate on deposits compared to loans for priority
sectors (encouraging borrowers to deposit excess funds rather than repay
loans), a majority of lending in high risk areas, together with weak legal and
enforcement functions contribute to the problem. Internally, poor credit
analysis, a weak collection effort, and inadequate information on arrears are
the main factors.
5.06      The arrears situation for subloans financed under the project is
shown in Annex 3, Table 4. Arrears are shown separately for principal and
interest, but the interest figures are undoubtedly understated, since a number
of branches do not calculate interest regularly each year, but only when the
borrower wants to repay. The large increase in numbers of borrowers in
arrears over the period indicates the extent of the deterioration. Due to the
grace period, the arrears problem only became apparent towards the end of the
project period. As at end-August 1985 some 42% of borrowers were in arrears
for repayment of principal and more than half for repayment of interest.
Arrears by value in the fisheries subsector were about 40% of outstandings
compared with only about 22% for livestock and perennial crops. The arrears
position continues to deteriorate and requires immediate attention from the
management.
5.07      Under the project BRI obtains credit insurance from the Indonesian
Credit Insurance Corporation (ASKRINDO) for 75% of the amount of each subloan,
upon payment of a fee (5% for loans over 5 years, of which BRI pays one-third
and BI the rest). These terms are the same as for KIK/KMKP loans. The sub-
stantial coverage provides BRI with little incentive to select borrowers care-
fully or to vigorously pursue loan supervision and collection. This has
undoubtedly affected project loans, although it is difficult to estimate the
extent to which selection of borrowers and pursuit of repayment would have
been better without the insurance. ASKRINDO considers that its experience
with the project was good up to end-1984, when total coverage was Rp 46.5
billion and claims paid out were Rp 2.6 billion (under 6%), in keeping with
the national average. However, claims have increased disproportionally
over the five years 1980-85, and IDA expressed concern that ASKRINDO would
need GOI support to cover its obligations. Under SEDP III a review of
ASKRINDO's operations, financial structure, and management and development
strategy was to be undertaken.l/
Financial and Economic Rates of Return of Subprojects
5.08     Financial and economic returns were estimated for typical cattle
breeding and brackish water fishpond subprojects which represent about two-
thirds of the total value of project subloans and number of borrowers. The
financial and economic analyses yield the following returns:
1/ The PCR for SEDP III (SecM90-513, dated April 24, 1990) notes in
paragraph 13 that although no review was received by the Bank, minor
changes were made, which reduced ASKRINDO's losses, but that "these
changes are unlikely to foster efficiency into the system, and may
merely transfer ASKRINDO's losses to BI."



- 13 -
Brackish water mixed
Cattle breeding      culture fishponds
 __________(z)________
Financial rates of return (FRRs)
SAR                                         21                      40
Actual                                      28                      44
Economic rates of return (ERRs)
SAR                                         23                      52
Actual                                      30                      51
Estimates of actual FRRs and ERRs exceed or approximately equal the SAR
estimates due to exceedingly good prices for milkfish, shrimp and cattle and
investment costs that stayed within budgeted levels (para. 4.01). For the
economic analysis, economic prices were assumed to equal financial prices,
although the opportunity cost of labor is estimated to be 50% of the market
wage. At full development incremental farm income would amount to Rp. 1.7
million from the brackish-fishpond and Rp. 342,000 from the cattle breeding
package which represent substantial increases over previous incomes. Detailed
cash flows of these subprojects are provided in Annex 3, Tables 6 and 7.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
BRI: Organization and Management
6.01      The rapid expansion of BRI's financial support to small farmers and
fishermen over the past decade exacerbated a number of institutional problems,
in particular the shortage of highly qualified staff, lack of uniformity in
credit procedures, a complicated accounting system, and a poor management and
control system. The objectives of the technical assistance component of the
project were to improve term lending by strengthening the planning, training
and monitoring ability of BRI's head office, the supervisory role of its
regional offices, and the implementation capacity of its branches.
6.02      BRI has a well-structured regional and branch network, with func-
tional lines clearly drawn, but at the head office, administration of credit,
operational and financial control is split among all Directors, making coordi-
nation and management cumbersome. Other constraints are the heavy pressures
on administrative and branch staff, and the difficulties arising from poor
communications within the hiely dispersed and understaffed branch network
(although this noticeably improved towards the end of the project period).
6.03      Nevertheless, the project's impact on BRI's operational efficiency
in long-term lending has been greater than the relatively small proportion of
project loans in BRI's lending program. Loans outstanding under RCP only



- 14 -
accounted for about 2X of BRI's total outstandings by value at end-1983 and
declined to 1Z at end-1984 (Annex 4, Table 1). Unfortunately some of the
impetus generated by the project has been dissipated because of the lack of a
follow-up project. The main benefit has been an increased awareness among
staff at all levels of the methods of processing long-term loans, and a marked
improvement in their handling techniques.
6.04      However, further improvements in BRI's overall operational effi-
ciency resulted from a technical assistance program included in the Bank-
assisted SEDP III. Under this project, consultants would study a wide range
of institutional and operational problems within BRI, with emphasis on
simplifying regulations, procedures, reporting requivements and standardiza-
tion, in particular for programs having similar purposes but different proce-
dures. BRI would recommend suitable changes and produce an action plan to
implement them. The estimated total cost of this technical assistance is
US$1.75 million.
Extension Services
6.05      Under the Development Credit Agreement, the Government agreed to
strengthen the extension services for livestock, fisheries and agriculture so
that they could provide adequate support to farmers obtaining project
subloans. Once the project was expanded to cover a large part of the country,
this requirement became physically impossible to accomplish, since it would
entail strengthening the services nationwide, while the project itself was
extremely small in relation to the services' other commitments. This point
does not seem to have been considered by IDA when the expansion was agreed.
Nevertheless, it affected the degree of support the extension services were
able to provide, and should have been anticipated.
6.06      With 195 BRI branches involved in project lending, and with their
dependence on the extension services for technical support, cooperation
between BRI and the services has varied widely, since it largely depends on
individual personalities at the branch and field levels. Cooperation, has
overall, however, been reasonably good, considering the limitations of staff
and transport within both organizations, especially in the earlier project
years.
6.07      While cooperation has been satisfactory, the physical support which
the services provided in the field was adequate in some areas, but less than
satisfactory in others since it 2epended on the availability of staff and
transport in each project area.-   Almost 40% of borrowers in the areas
surveyed by the Evaluation Study had no contact with the relevant extension
service.
2/   In 1981 in the Aceh Region, extension staff cooperated wholeheartedly in
drawing up ALPs and assisting in desk appraisals of subloans, but were
able to assist in the field only to a very limited extent because of lack
of transport.



- 15 -
6.08      The SAR records that the Director General of Fisheries would need to
establish about 15 new demonstration ponds for brackish water culture and 5
f,r fresh water culture in new project areas to show farmers the successful
application of up-to-date technologies. However, no provision for the ponds
was included in the loan documents. A review of the project carried out in
1981 by consultants indicated that the ponds visited were grossly inadequate
and should be abandoned or replaced. To ensure that in future projects such
demonstration ponds would play a useful part in project implementation, it
would be advisable to include suitable provisions in the loan documents.
Alternatively, the extension device of using top farmers as models for visits
by farmers' groups would seem to be a more efficient and less costly approach
to the problem of demonstration units, and should be considered for future
projects.
Accounting and Management Information
6.09      BRI's organization and management were improved in 1977 as a result
of an ADB-financed project. To further BRI's management and information
system and the Jakarta Special branch office, US$300,000 was included in this
project to cover retroactive financing of some of this %rk, which was
completed in June 1984. The final consultants' report on the project
recommended further organizational and administrative changes, which will be
considered in the study to be carried out under SEDP III (para. 6.04).
Staff and Offices
6.10      BRI employees (excluding Village Units) increased from 12,550 at
end-1979 to 18,150 at end-1984, or by about 45Z. Over the same period two
additional regional offices and two regional audit offices were opened,
bringing the totals to 15 and 16, respectively, while branch offices increased
from 270 to 293. Most of the new branches were in remote areas and since some
of them will probably not be profitable in the near future, they are supported
by a GOI subsidy.
6.11      Loan Officers.  BRI's staff of loan officers increased from about
1,100 at end-1981 to about 1,600 at end-1984. In 1982 about 160 were working
exclusively on this project. The number of loan officers varies considerably
by area and by branch. Provisional estimates in 1981 showed about 750 per
office in Java but 200 in the more remote areas. The number of loan officers
per branch depends on branch location, types of loan administered and averatc
distance of borrowers from the branch. The very heavy workload of loan
officers has meant that for this project many have been able to visit borrow-
ers only when processing their applications, with follow-up visits mainly
confined to arrears collection. The Evaluation Study revealed a wide varia-
tion among branches in average number of visits per borrower, but little cor-
relation betw-een visits, their effectiveness, and subloan collection rates.
In 1982 BRI began a study of subloans handled by loan officers, which fed
into the studies of BRI funded under SEDP III (see PCR para. 18, op. cit.).



- 16 -
6.12      The SAR did not discuss the rote of BRI's Loan officers in imple-
menting the project, but specified that at least one officer and one super-
visor per branch should receive training in term lending. It did not consider
the number of loans each officer could reasonably be expected to administer.
Because of the lack of knowledge or the effectiveness of loan officers, any
attempt in the SAR to lay down ratios would almost certainly have proved of
little value. Nevertheless, as loan officers are the principal contact
between BRI and its borrowers, some discussion in the SAR of their role in the
project might have focussed on what has turned out to be one of the main
factors in subloan administration.
Institutional Changes
6.13      Before the project became effective, a new Program Development
Department was set up in BRI's Planning Bureau, primarily to coordinate
preparation of ALPs. However, it did not develop as fully as was expected,
and by 1982, staff numbers declined to half the 1979 levels, and there was
excessive reliance on consultants for field studies and their evaluation.
Later, the PLanning bureau was reorganized and became the Research and
Planning Division with responsibility to identify and prepare new lending
programs, provide technical support and services for existing loans, carry out
and evaluate studies, and do research. In Aut:ust 1983 the Project Aid
Division, which handled project implementA:.icri, was consolidated into the
Investment Credit Bureau. These evolutionacj changes have been helpful to
project implementation.
Project Organization
6.14      As the project evolved, numerous im,  vements in its procedures and
methods were gradually introduced to make impi'eiaentation more efficient. This
improvement included the involvement of BRI brax hes in preparing ALPs, the
introduction of procedural guidelines and a maruti for term lending in 1981
(which took some time to become effective in al' tranches) the simplification
of application forms in 1984 and the streamlining of loan processing
procedures.
VII. ASSESSMENT OF IDA PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01      The appraisal report was comprehensive in coverage and adequate in
treatment of the major issues. The project objectives were clearly defined
and appraisal estimates of costs were reasonably accurate considering the
indicative nature of the subloan component based on potential subloan demand
and the substantial depreciation of the rupiah against t.he dollar. However, a
great deal of effort, probably unjustified, was spent in defining subloan
categories and specific commodities, determining precise locations of lending,
and estimating rates of return of various subprojects which inhibited BRI
lending in the early stages of the project. The Association was correct in
lifting the lending restrictions in January 1980 and alloving BRI to finance
any agricultural project within the general objectives of the project. As
credit funds are fungible and the rural credit project is essentially a line
of credit, the focal point of appraisal should have been the institution, not



- 17 -
the subprojects, and its capacity to identify, appraise and lend to worthwhile
long-term investments. The OED Evaluation on Agricultural Credit Programs
(Report No. 1357) proves that relatively unrestricted lines of term credit can
be effective in many diverse circumstances and the Bank operational divisions
do not have to cover these open lines of credit with a technological argument
in the SAR.
7.02      The SAR considered the main project risk to be that BRI might not be
able to implement the project properly, in view of its staffing constraints,
lack of consistency in credit procedures and inadequate controls, coupled with
the wide range of its other programs. To reduce the l-kelihood and potential
impact of this risk the SAR stressed the institutional development of BRI,
under the project, through the consultancy, scaff training and the establish-
ment of the Program Development Department. As an added protection, the col-
lection performance of branches was to be closely monitored. The SAR
correctly assessed the risks, and the safeguards did much to reduce them.
Only the oollection performance of branches fell short of expectations, and
that still remains the most serious risk to BRI's future prospects. The SAR
also considered that the extension services might pressure BRI to approve
subloans that were not up to standard. This did happen to some extent in the
earlier years, particularly in the fisheries subsector, but was subsequently
overcome.
7.03      Bank Supervision.  Since the start of the project, supervision has
been the responsibility of RSI, which has prepared regular reports as appro-
priate. In November/December 1981 an in-depth review of the project was
carried out by two independent consultants, and their findings are incorpora-
ted elsewhere as appropriate in the text of this PCR. Supervision by RSI has
been carried out through regular monthly meetings to discuss project progress
and problems with the head of BRI's Bureau of Project Aid Loans, the BRI
officers responsible for the project at the head office, and the project
consultants. Subjects aiscussed included financial and economic data, reports
by members of the consultants' team, and the immediate problems of implementa-
tion. Consequently, both sides were fully aware of project progress through-
out the disbursement period. This supervision method is preferable to IDA
missions mounted from Washington which may cause supervising staff to remain
unaware of a problem until actually in the field. Supervision of the project
was therefore satisfactory.
7.04      Lessons Learned.  The main lessons learned under the project are as
follows:
(a) subloan categories in a credit program should be formulated in a
flexible manner in order to allow for changes in subproject
composition and approach to achieving project objectives. The
Association should also consider lines of bank finance, unrestricted
with respect to farm technologies or on-farm uses of capital
equipment for future credit projects (paras. 3.05 and 7.01);
(b) the use of experienced consultants can have a significant impact on
a lending institution through assistance in programming of term
lending activities and introduction of better methods and procedures



- 18 -
of project and loan appraisal. There is also an advantage in having
a single consultant firm responsible for technical assistance with
regular high level management reviews of progress (para. 3.09);
(c) the training program was satisfactory largely because it was
undertaken as an integral part of the main activities of the project
and the work of the consultant team (para. 3.15);
(d) multiple credit programs need to be consolidated and the varying
terms and conditions of the financial institution, rationalized to
provide a more effective credit delivery system to small farmers and
fishermen (para. 3.18);
(e) an adequate number of well-trained staff is necessary for the
successful implementation of a credit program (para. 3.18); and
(f) an effective cooperation between the financial institution and the
extension service is essential in enhancing the technical and
financially feasibility of the subprojects (paras. 6.05-6.06).



ANNEM  1
- 19 -                           Table 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ equivalent)
Reallocation
SAR       October 20, March 11,
Category                   estimates       1981 /a      1982 /b      Actual use
1.  Subloan               26,000,000   26,000,000   23,000,000   23,527,582.31
2. Consultants and
Specialist Services    2,300,000    3,460,000    5,460,000    4,952,713.44
3.  Training                 200,000       200,000    1,200,000       170,742.67
4. Unallocated              1,500,000      340,000       340,000               -
Cancelled                           -            -             -    1,348,961.58
Total                30,000,000   30,000,000   30,000,000        30,000,000
/a To finance cost increases in Category 2 and provide funds for the completion
of BRI's term-lending consultancy contract with W.D. Scott and Co.
/b To provide increased funds for consulting services and training to (exten-
sion of the consultant's contract up to June 1984).



ANNEX 1
Table 2
- 20-
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost Summary
Appraisal estimate              Actual           Actual as x
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  of appraisal
--------------- (USS million) ---------
Credit
Pepper                        7.9      3.9     11.8      2.2    1.n      3.2          27
Coffee                        1.7     0.6       2.3      0.2    0.1      0.3          13
Cattle breeding              11.0     0.3      11.3    21.5    0.4    21.9           194
Brackish-water fishponds   16.2       0.3      16.5    18.6    0.4    19.0           115
Freshwater fishponds          2.0      -        2.0      5.5     -       5.5         275
Fishing boat motorization   0.3       0.4       0.7       -      -        -            -
Ice plants                    0.4     0.8       1.2      0.3    0.7      1.0          83
Unspecified/others            9.6      1.6     11.2    12.8    2.1    14.9           133
Subtotal                 49.1      7.9      57.0    61.1    4.7    65.8           115
Technical Assistance
Term-lending consultancy    0.7        1.1      1.8      1.8    2.9      4.7         261
Accounting consultancy        0.1     0.2       0.3       -     .0.3     0.3          0o0
Training                       -      0.3       0.3       -     0.2      0.2          67
Evaluation study              0.6      -        0.6       -      -        -            -
Subtotal                   1.4     1.6       3.0      1.8    3.4      5.2         173
Total                    50.5      9.5      60.0    62.9    8.1    71.0           118



ANNEX 1
-1Table 3
-21-
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Financing
Appraisal                    Actual
Total        Share         Total        Share
(US$ mln)        %         (US$ mln)        %
Credit
IDA                             27.0          47           23.5          36
BI                              12.7          22           30.9          47
BRI                              9.9          17           12.0          18
Subborrowers                     7.4          13           -0.6        -0.1
Subtotal                     57.0         100           65.8         100
Technical Assistance
IDA                              3.0         100            5.2         100
Total Project
IDA                             30.0          50           28.7          40
BI                              12.7          21           30.9          43
BRI                              9.9          17           12.0          17
Subborrowers                     7.4          12           -0.6        -0.1
Total                        60.0         100           71.0         100



ANNE 1
Table 4
- 22 -
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA                     Appraisal estimate                     Actual
fiscal                        Cumu-   % of total              Cumu-   % of total
year                Annual  lative    credit         Annual  lative    credit
1979                  0.7      0.7          2        0.24      0.24       0.8
1980                  4.2      4.9         16         1.60     1.84       6.1
1981                  8.0    12.9          43         7.79     9.63      32.1
1982                 11.3    24.2          81        16.50    26.13      87.1
1983                  3.8    28.0          93         1.01    27.14      90.5
1984                  1.7    29.7          99         1.15    28.29      94.3
1985                  0.3    30.0         100        0.36    28.65       95.5
As of November 5, 1985                                         28.67      95.6



- 23 -                         ANNEX I
Table 5
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RCP: Annual Lending Programs
Year ending March 31                       1980  1981  1982  1983  1984    Total    (x)
Annual Lending Program (Rp bln)
Livestock                                0.7   6.8  12.5  21.9  12.7        54.5   (41)
Fisheries                                2.1   6.5  14.7  29.5  12.6        65.4   (49)
Perennial crops                          0.7   3.4   3.2   3.2   2.R        13.3   (10)
Total                                 3.4  16.6  30.4  54.7  28.1    133.2  (100)
Approvals (Rp bln)
Livestock                                0.6   5.5  10.4   7.9   1.2        25.6   (52)
Fisheries                                0.9   4.4   6.8   5.4   0.5        17.9   (36)
Perennial crops                            -   1.7   2.0   1.1   0.2         5.0   (10)
Other /a                                   -   0.4   0.2       -      -      0.6    (1)
Total                                 1.4  12.0  19.4  14.4   2.0        49.2  (100)
Approvals as Percent of ALP
Livestock                                 88    82    83    36        9        47
Fisheries                                 49    68    46    18        4        27
Perennial crops                            -    50    63    34        7        38
Other                                      -      -     -      -      -         -
Average                                41    72    64    26       7        37
/a Includes ice and tea factories.
Note: Differences between columns and totals due to rounding.
Source: Consultant's Report.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Subloan Disbursementa
(Rp million)
Average
1980             1981               1982              1983            1984/85           Total          loan
Number  Amount  Number  Amount   Number  Amount   Number  Amount  Number  Amount  Number  Amount   size
(Rp'000)
Livestock
Cattle breeding              6,674   3,123    8,441   5,365    6,243   4,357   2,677   2,620            -        78    24,035  15,543         647
Draft cattle                    126      93       325      283       792     657       92      112      -         -      1,335   1,145        858
Buffalo                        192      141       838      633    1,184   1,177       632      888      -         6     2,846   2,845       1,000
Coat                            105      26       505      137       502      129     430      146      -        13      1,542     451        292
Pig                              -        -        10       10       563   1,194       56      245      -         I       629   1,450       2,305
Sheep                          371      133    2,835   1,355    1,486        645      284      237      -        -      4,976   2,370         476
Total                     7,468   3,516   12,954   7,783   10,770   8,159   4,171   4,248           -        98    35,363  23,804          673
Fisheries
Brackish water ponds         1,629   2,901    1,476   4,305          931   2,779      420   2,565       -        20     4,456  12,570       2,821
Fresh water ponds              190      188    1,392   1,117         798     727      290      304      -        20     2,670   2,356         882
Running water ponds              91     198       340   1,000        521      285     128      252      -         -      1,080   1,735      1,606
Carp hatchery                    -        -         5       11        34      46        6       16      -        -          45      73      1,622
Shrimp hatchery                  -        -         -        -         1       20       -       30      -         -          '      50    50,000
ice factory                      2      246         1      329         -       -        -        -      -         -          3     575   191,667
Total                     1,912   3,533    3,214   6,762    2,285   3,857          844   3,167      -        40              17,359      2,103
Perennial Crops
Coffee                           23        2       67       82         7       70       -       19      -        81         97      254     2,619
Vanilla                          20       9        45       45        64       40      170      91      -         -        299      185       619
Pepper                         338      331       403      729       124      779      32      374      -       126       897   2,339       2,609
Tea factory                       -       -         2       28         -       10        2     132      -         -          4      170    42,500
Tea plantation                    -       -        68       77       280       59       17     129      -         -        365     265        726
Oranges                          41      25       197      121       317      375      132     269      -        95        687     805       1,288
Passion fruit                     -       -         6        1         2        3       -        -      -         -          8        4        500
Rubber                           -        -         -        -         6        3       -        -      -         -          6        3       500
Total                       422      367       788   1,083       800   1.339       353   1,014       -       302     2,363   4,105       1,738
Project Total                  9,802   7,416   16,956  15,628   13,855  13,355   5,368   8,429            -       440    45,981  45,268         985
Notes.  (1)  Numbers are actual.  Amounts are in Rp million.
(2)  Numbers are shown in the year in which the subloans were approved.  Disbursements may be spread over following years.                             e
(3)  The 1984/85 amounts include disbursements made to August 31, 1985.



- 25 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of Subloan Disbursements by Value /a
1980    1981   1982   1983   1984/85        Total
Subsector                                        (percentages of subsector total)
Livestock                               14.R    32.7   34.2   17.9       0.4        100.0
Fisheries                               20.4    39.0   22.2   18.2       0.2        100.0
Perennial crops                          8.9    26.4   32.4   24.9       7.4        100.0
Overall                                 16.4    34.5   29.5   18.6       1.0        100.0
Subsector and Program (overall)
x of subsector             2 of RCP
Livestock
Cattle breeding                                     65.3                  34.3
Draft cattle                                         4.8                   2.5
Buffalo                                             12.0                   6.3
Goat                                                 1.9                    1.0
Pig                                                  6.1                   3.2
Sheep                                               10.0                   5.2
Subtotal                                       100.0                   52.6
Fisheries
Brackish water ponds                                72.4                  27.7
Still water ponds                                   13.6                   5.2
Running water ponds                                 10.0                    3.8
Fish hatchery                                        0.4                   0.2
Prawn hatchery                                       0.3                   0.1
Ice factory                                          3.3                   1.3
Subtotal                                       100.0                   38.3
Perennial Crops
Coffee                                               6.2                   0.6
Vanilla                                              4.5                   0.4
Pepper                                              57.0                   5.2
Tea factory                                          4.1                   0.4
Tea plantation                                       6.5                   0.6
Oranges                                             21.6                   2.0
Passion fruit                                        0.1                    -
Rubber                                               0.1                    -
Subtotal                                       100.0                    9.1
/a Up to August 31, 1985.
Source: BRI.



ANNEK I
- 26 -                             Table 8
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Location of Subloans by Region and Type
(Rp billions disbursed)
Livestock   Fisheries   P. Crops         Total (%)
Aceh /a                            0.1          0.2          -         0.3    (06)
N. Sumatra                         0.8          0.1         0.3        1.1    (2.5)
W. Sumatra                          1.2         0.1          -         1.3    (2.9)
S. Sumatra                         0.6           -          2.0        2.7    (5.9)
W. Java                            2.5          5.3/b       0.5/c      8.4   (18.5)
Yogyakarta/Jakarta /a              0.7           -          0.1        0.8    (1.7)
Central Java                       3.4          1.1          -         4.5   (10.0)
E. Java                            7.6          2.0/b        -         9.6   (21.2)
S. Kalimantan                      1.1          0.3         0.9        2.3    (5.1)
S. Sulawesi                        1.5          8.2         0.1        9.8   (21.7)
N. Sulawesi                        1.6           -           -         1.6    (3.5)
Bali                               0.3           -          0.2        0.5    (1.1)
Timor Timur                        2.4           -           -         2.4    (5.3)
Total                        23.8         17.4         4.1       45.2
(X)                         (52.6)       (38.5)       (9.0)            (100.0)
/a Special territories.
7Wb  Includes ice factories (Rp 375 million).
77  Includes tea factories (Rp 170 million).
Note: Differences between columns and totals due to rounding.
Source: BRI.



ANNEX I
-27-                                        Table 9
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRI: Term Lending Training Programs
(Numbers of Staff Trained)
1979/a  1980/a  1981/a   1982   1983   1984  Total
Courses
Instructors and regional management /b    30           32      28        -       -     27    117
Branch managers /c                           20        18      2n        -      20    287    365
Branch department managers /c                 5         9       6        -       7      -      27
Credit officers                              81       160      36        -       -    287    564
Credit supervisors                           9r0      160      37        -       -    250    537
Credit field officers                       452       898      58        -       -  1,520  2,928
Total                                    678    1,277      185        -      27  2,371  4,53R
On-the-Job Training /d
Instructors and regional management           3        25      20       10       5      -      63
Branch managers and deputies                  -        15      25       36       -      -      76
Technical staff (head office)                12        15       15      10       6     60    118
Credit officers                              50       120     260      267    287       -    984
Credit supervisors                           65        90     120      150    200       -    625
Credit field officers                       320       690     950   1,400  1,520        -  4,880
Total                                    450      955   1,390   1,873  2,018        60  6,746
/a  Courses averaging about 20 days.
7Wb  Partly at BRI, some at the Institution for the Development of Banking.
77  All at the Institution for the Development of Banking.
/d  Training mostly given in half-day units over 5 days by individual consultants.
Source: Consultants' Final Report (December 1984).



swalIAM3
"PA 063?I.CTI C*631 821-3m)
Total ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      am   m ta 
3                                     -                          I                                                        cs..I Up  ~~~  4               V.1.. to34s3. saas!
Cmedwel   A"ro"i   &cc"&   .es.ii  '0.Ie   o.1oI                                                                               d61.. sw6smok.l                            Pric.. to  30Sc.. go       63016-1303
69.r.I..i  641.601    .eal..I  dC al.4      Actual     .p..*   er10            645...3    *pp:..2 "                  63A S                     s      .pee.I.)"IpaIbe,g    VP a.4       go          o"         "-m
mm,o                  2.100  a     .01  .       6      2.b1O61              .0   b         a       .0   c     )01I           2     404   d1.01-1.'A14 Id       2100 Id    ,.44 la    152         116-Ill   4.60        610         6.46    4*00
c.3f66                2.15"1        61          4                                                                                                   a.lI  2 2611 5271 64  046 71  61* 71    o.o7h  4"  4)     21"      a~mon                  4
Cr"i*   PM"             00      46.OS0 1.      14                                 1        10     320        2.)1L          4         Om~L 0.1 7j                            36         2)10                   60        60        4.6*    4,32)
011111001s                is.w  la       4,         ISO.400 lb    196*44        112-101    :*.mW       S.4*2 f        1          "a0 /a      0.06 la    I.~ VW       1.14 I'd    121          UI     200 lb   66410         6 .466   1.607
SeI~~~~~~~~~~~                                *t~~~~~~lo     61A           4       n12re       41  Li      40       1.             4.2 71    1.01  71    6.24, 71     110          *26    ::"a        )40         *16 3
ft2         ""        ISwto31.La                u 6                                                 n           %a .e-                                                                                                               6
11413                IS0 i        -          -                                                     S0       2  -          -         140          0.  1/4                    ---                            3120-                            -
k.l.cth. 1bu0                                                                                                 so. 90211 .                                      Om                                                      23
14.16 44632.  -  1.6101.  -             -              I 1       ~     ~~ ~~~                                                  ~~~~~~- SS.2        26~ l *2 ~   -                                           6       6 
IC e                                                                                     Sao.    2.6    -41     n.-    /a   64 La ---                        2.00p/--                                         --                  ,6      ,2      
W.0e1                           22.                                                                        S    .0        1  -                       -       *. Ef         .4~-                               -                             4
1.. 101016      -        ~~~~161-                                 I.                                  ..           --                                   ..        Il                           
Corp "S-                   662                           -           4.60            -        -       224.6  Id      ---                                 4014      01   d         --                    -                   .)      .1
~~~ 143456. ~ ~    ~     36                                        &A                                                                                  66
11d 04 4'01.
63    "".8*.    stts
#Wba 2.66.0..2.6011.  6642.bc...   elmI   t6cI.lfa   3.11eilg
and..
Isa PM.l"t
I,ftle.
P5,5P" 966 b.*tr..
be 3.5.
"sella.
ftot::.Pw bo"aft.~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.
ft'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '



ANNEX 2
- 29 -                               Table 2
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Farmgate Prices
(Rp'000)
Commodity                            1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Cattle (120 kg)                     172.1   186.1   201.4   215.5   191.0   206.5
Draft cattle (250 kg)               239.9   258.4   279.R   2q9.5   265.3   288.5
Buffalo (300 kg)                    253.1   276.1   309.3   300.0   294.9   341.4
Sheep (60 kg)                        69.2    73.6    78.4    83.2    79.6    77.2
Goat (60 kg)                         73.6    79.6    82.0    83.6    79.6    88.8
Swine (100 kg)                       91.2    93.7    96.2    98.1    q9.6   101.3
Brackish water fish
Milkfish (1 kg)                     0.9      0.9     0.1      0.1      1.1      1.3
Shrimp (1 kg)                       3.0     3.0      3.5      3.1      5.5      7.0
Carp (1 kg)                           0.9      0.1     1.0      1.4      1.5      1.7



- 30                                      ANNEX 3
Table r
INDONESIA
RU'AL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRI: Summary Balance Sheet
(Rp billion)
At December 31   1979       1980     1981      1982     1983   1984 /a
Assets
Current assets                          317.2    521.2    471.7    402.1    576.9    905.0
Loans outstanding                       616.8    976.8  1,575.2  1,965.0  2,271.7  3,958.2
Fixed and other assets /b                15.1      21.5     22.8      30.6      38.7    325.8
Total Assets                         948.1  1,519.5  2,069.7  2,397.7  2,887.3  5,189.0
Liabilities
Current deposits /c                     442.6    756.7    851.3/d  569.5    760.7  1,194.5
Time deposits                            89.9      88.7     95.5    131.7    276.5    357.6
Borrowings from Bank Indonesia          294.4    419.8    805.5  1,327.5  1,444.6  3,004.7
Foreign currency ahad other liabil-
ities                                  69.4    157.4    260.4    310.8    346.2    419.7
Total Liabilities                    896.3  1,422.6  2,012.7  2,339.5  2,828.0  4,976.5
Equity
Capital                                   0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3
Reserves, retained profits and
provisions                             52.1     96.6      56.7      57.9      59.0    212.2
Total Equity                          52.4      96.9     57.0      58.2      59.3    212.5
Total Liabilities and Equity         948.7  1Z519.5  2,069.7  2,397.7  2,887.3  52189.0
Total in 1980 Rp billion         1,120.0  1,520.0  1,840.0  1,950.0  2,100.0  3,420.0
Ratios (%)
Average loans outstanding/average
assets                                 68.0      65.0     71.0      79.0      80.0     77.0
Average deposits/average assets          52.0      56.0      50.0     37.0      33.0     32.0
Average deposits/average loans
outstanding                            76.0      86.0     70.0      47.0      41.0     42.0
Debt/equity                               6.9       6.0      18.7     28.1      30.2      16.1
/a Onaudiced.
/b Depreciated.
/c Includes savings.
/d High deposits due to temporary GOI placement covering a distribution of rural
subsidies through BRI.
Source: BRI.



ANNEX 3
- 31 -                               Table 2
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRI: Summary Income Statement
(Rp billion)
Calendar year:   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983  1984/a
Income
Interest                              66.9   95.4  143.8  187.3  231.9  381.3
Commission                              4.2    7.2    9.8    9.4   10.0   20.7
Foreign exchange                         -     6.2   15.3    5.6    7.3   21.0
Other                                  11.6   12.6    7.6   13.6   26.3   26.1
Total Income                       82.7  121.4  176.5  216.0  275.5  449.1
Expenditure
Interest                               26.0   29.2   40.3   62.7   95.2  210.2
Personnel                              28.0   37.7   74.7   73.6   96.3  144.4
Other administrative                   13.8   18.8   28.5   37.6   42.1   42.2
Provisions and contingencies           13.1   31.5   26.5   36.3   26.5   35.4
Total Expenditure                  80.9  117.2  170.0  210.2  260.1  432.2
Profit (Before Tax)                  1.8    4.2    6.5    5.8   15.4   16.9
Ratios (%)
Administrative expenses /b/average
assets                                1.7    1.0    1.6    1.7    1.6    1.0
Administrative expenses/averagc.
loans O/S                            2.4    1.5    2.2    2.1    2.0    1.4
Income/average loan portfolio          14.5   15.2   13.8   12.2   13.0   16.0
Expenses/average loan portfolio        14.1   14.7   13.3   11.9   12.3   12.9
Profit/gross income                     2.2    3.5    3.7    2.7    5.6    3.8
/a Unaudited.
/b Includes personnel costs.
Source: BRI.
r



-32 -                                  ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRI: Summary of Loan Arrears at December 31, 1984
Over 3 months
Out-    Up to 3 months    in arrears        Total
standing    in arrears    Amount    x /a  arrears
By Amount (Rp billion)
RIMAS/INMAS                     115.1           -           109.0   94.7    109.n
KIK/KMRP                       567.1          79.9          135.7   23.9    215.6
Other agriculture              598.5          18.0           26.6    4.4       44.6
Trade                        2,206.0           3.9           66.0    3.0       69.9
Government fund credit          100.1         10.5           12.6   12.6       23.1
Other loans                    496.4          26.4           63.6   12.8      90.0
Total                     4,083.2        138.7           413.5   10.1    552.2
By Borrowers (Rp'OO0)
BIMAS/INMAS                  3,489.4            -         3,332.6   95.5  3,332.6
KIK/KMKP                       303.7          76.8          115.7   38.1    192.5
Other agriculture               162.2         24.3           13.7    8.4       38.0
Trade                          599.7          20.3           23.5    3.9       43.8
Government fund credit         156.2          16.6          120.2   77.0    136.8
Other loans                    593.6          46.4           58.2    9.8    104.6
Total                     5,340.8        184.4        3,663.9   69.1  3,848.3
/a Percent of outstanding in category.
Source: BRI.



_33 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of RCP Loan Arrears
/a
Year ending December 31:  1981        1982     1983      1984      1985
By Value (Rp billion)
Disbursed, cumulative                  23.0     36.4      44.8      45.2      45.3
Repaid during year                      1.1       1.9      2.4       3.5       4.8
Outstanding at year-end (A)            21.9     34.5      42.4      41.7      40.5
Arrears:  Principal (B)                 0.1      0.4       1.6       3.6       5.6
Interest (C)                 0.3      0.2       2.9       6.4       5.8
Ratios:  (B) as % of (A)                0.5       1.2      3.8       8.6      13.8
(C) as 7 of (A)               1.4       0.6      6.8      15.3      14.3
(B) + (C) as % of (A)         1.9       1.8     10.6      23.9      28.1
By Borrower (Rp'0OO)
Disbursed, cumulative                  26.8     40.6      46.0      46.0      46.0
Outstanding at year-end (D)            26.0     38.6      42.6      42.1      41.7
Arrears:  Principal (E)                 0.5      2.3       6.8      14.R      19.3
Interest (F)                 2.6      n.a.    15.3       25.1      23.2
Ratios:  (E) as 7, of (D)               1.9      6.0      16.0      35.1      46.2
(F) as 7 of (D)              10.0      n.a.    35.9       59.6      55.6
By Subsector (Rp billion)
Outstanding:  Livestock                10.7     18.4      22.5      22.1      21.6
Fisheries               10.0     13.5      16.4      15.7      14.9
Perennial crops          1.2      2.6       3.5       3.9       4.0
Total             21.9      34.5     42.4      41.7      40.5
Arrears: /b   Livestock                 0.1      0.1       1.6       3.Q       4.7
Fisheries                0.3      0.3       2.7       5.3       5.9
Perennial crops           -        -        0.2       0.8       0.9
Total              0.4       0.4       4.5     10.0      11.5
Arrears as x  Livestock                 0.9      0.5       7.1      17.6      21.8
outstaiLd-   Fisheries                3.0      2.2      16.5      33.8     39.6
ing:        Perennial crops           -         -        5.7      20.5     22.5
/a As at August 31, 1985.
7b Arrears of principal plus interest.
Source: BRI.



ANNEX 3
- 34 -                              Table 5
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cattle Breeding Herd Projection
(1 unit: 2 cows)
Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 Yr 6 Yr 7 Yr 8 Yr 9 Yr 10
Cows                    2     2      2     2     2      2     2      2     2     2
Female calves           -     -      1     -      1     -     1     -      1     -
Male calves             -      1     -     1     -      1     -      1     -      1
Yearling heifers        -     -      -     1     -      1     -      1     -     1
Yearling bulls          -     -      1     -      1     -     1     -      1     -
2-year-old heifers      -     -      -     -     1      -     1     -      1     -
2-year-old bulls        -     -      -     1     -      1     -     1      -     1
Total Herd         2     3     4      5     5      5     5     5      5     5
Sales
2-year-old bulls      -     -     -      1     -      1     -     1      -     1
Culled cows           -     -     -      -     1      -     1     -      1     -
Remainder          2     3     4      4     4     4      4     4      4     4
Note:  Technical coefficients:
Net calf crop             = 50% (first year - 0%)
Market age of bulls       - 2 years
Culling age of cows       - 7-9 years
Liveweight assumptions:
Heifer, 1-2 years         - 150 kg
Male, 1-2 years           - 170 kg
Heifer, 2-3 years         = 190 kg
Male, 2-3 years           = 220 kg
Male, over 3 years        - 250+ kg



ANNEX 3
35 -                                   Table 6
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETIO. EPORT
Economic and Financial Rates of Return - Cattle Breeding
(Rp '000)
Yr 1  Yr 2  Yr 3  Yr 4  Yr 5  Yr 6  Yr 7  Yr 8  Yr 9  Yr 1O
Cash Inflow
Sales, young bulls                -    -      -    300       -   300      -   300      -   300
Sales, young bulls                -    -      -    300       -   300      -   300      -   300
Sales, young bulls                -    -      -    300       -   300      -   300      -   300
Sales, culled cows                -    -      -       -   300      -   300      -   300       -
Sales of manure                  48   54    66       78    78    78    78    78    78    78
Livestock hire                    30   30    30      30    30    30    30    30    30    30
Loan                            745    -       -      -      -     -      -     -      -      -
Total Cash Inflow            823   84    96    408   408   408   408   408   408   408
Cash Outflow
Cows, 2 head                    550    -       -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -
Shed                             40    -      -
Plow                              25    -      -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -
Feed concentrate                  10   10    10      10    10    10    10    10    10    !0
Veterinary expenses               10   11    14      16    16    16    16    16    16    16
Breeding expenses                10   10    10       10    10    10    10    10    10    10
Grass improvement                 10    5      5      5      5     5      5      5     5      5
Land title                       50    -       -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -
Small agric. equipment           15    -      -       -      -     -      -     -      -      -
Labor                             10   15    20      25    25    25    25    25    25    25
Subtotal                     730   51    59       66    66    66    66    66    66    66
Interest repayment                -    -      -    312    78    57    36    15         -      -
Principal repayment               -    -      -       -   200   200   200   145        -      -
Total Cash Outflow           730   51    59    378   344   323   302   226    66    66
Net Cash Flow                 93   33    37       30    64    85   106   182   342   342
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefits                         78   84    96    408   408   408   408   408   408   408
Costa                           730   51    59       66    66    66    66    66    66    66
Net Financial Benefit       -652   33    37    342   342   342   342   342   342   342
Financial rate of return - 28Z
Economic Benefit/Cost
Benefits                         78   84    96    408   408   408   408   408   408   408
Cost                            725   44    49       54    54    54    54    54    54    54
Net Economic Benefit        -647   41    47    355   355   355   355   355   355   355
Economic rate of return - 30%



ANNEX 3
- 36-                                      Table 7
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic and Financial Rates of Return - Brackish-Water Fishpond (Mixed Culture)
(Rp'0`)
Yr O/a   Yr 1    Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Vr 5   Yr 6  Yrs 7-10
Physical Output
Milkfish                         120        640  1,000  1,160  1,320  1,400  1,400    1,400
Shrimp                             -        210    260    260    260    260    260           260
Cash Inflow
Sale of milkfish                 156        832  1,300  1,508  1,716  1,820  1,820    1,820
Sale of shrimp                     -      1,470  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820    1,820
Sale of other fish                60          -       -       -      -       -       -         -
Loan                               -      3,996       -       -      -       -       -         -
Total Cash Inflow             216      6,29R  3,120  3,328  3,536  3,,60  3640    3,640
Cash Outflow
Investment                         -      3,524       -       -      -       -       -         -
Fry milkfish                      40        136    136    136    136    136    136           136
Fry shrimp                         -      1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000    1,000
Fertilizers                        -        176    176    176    176    176    176           176
Rice bran                          -         40      40      40     40      40      40        40
Chemicals                          -        100    100    100    100    100    100           100
Labor                             12        232    272    300    324    336    336           336
Subtotal                       52    5,498  2,479  2,922  3,130  3,142  3               1.788
Interest repayment                 -        290    755    624    336    227    106             -
Principal repayment                -          -       -    546  1,018  1,127  1,305            -
Total Cash Outflow             52      5,208  1,724  1,752  1,776  1,78R  1,7y    1,7RR
Net Cash Flow                 164        800    641    406    406    498    411         1,852
Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefits                           -      2,086  2,904  3,112  3,320  3,424  3,424    3,424
Costs                              -      5,156  1,672  1,700  1,724  1,736  1,736    1,736
Net Financial Benefit           -    -3,070  1,232  1,412  1,596  1,68R  1 6R8    1,f88
Financial rate of return - 442
Economic Benefit/Cost
Benefits                           -      2,086  2,904  3,112  3,320  3,424  3,424    3,424
Costs                              -      5,040  1,536  1,550  1,562  1,568  1,568    1,568
Net Economic Benefit            -    -2,954  1,3i8  1,562  1,758  1,856  1,856    1
Economic rate of return * 512
/a Without-project situation.



ANNEXC -3
- 37 -
Figure 1: Comparison of Arrears Calculation
SAPI BIBIT: FE&ILANG BRANC                      K.A.T.: CIPJVIR BRAN
0/ _                                      100,' \           /      _      _
90
0                                             s
0                                             70
;%10= BANK
0                                             s0
0                                             40
O                                             30
o                     ~~~~~~~B. RO. 1. ETHCD
__0 j  -    .   .    .    .    .  '--F  -  I   _            .                  .    ,    ,10
1    2    3   4    5    6    7    8             1    2   3    4    5    6    78
Q%a=   PSIC,;rc                                Qm           mcr)s



- 38 -                              ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CREDIT 827-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRI Lending Operations
Year ending Dec 31  1979        1980       1981       1982       1983       1984
Loans Outstanding
(Rp billion)
Short-term (A)          392       493        830      1,114      1,361      3,003/a
Medium-term (B)         219       448        718        774        775        796
Long-term (C)            13        46         92        166        235        283
Total (D)            624       987     1,640      2,054      2,371      4,082
RCP only (E)              -         ?         22         35         42         42
Ratios
(A) as % of (D)        62.8      5000       50.6       54.2       57.4       73.5
(B) as x of (D)        35.1     45.4       43.8        37.7       32.7       19.5
(C) as x of (D)         2.1       4.7        5,6        8.1        9.9        6.9
(E) as % of (D)           -?                 13         1,7        1.8        1.0
(E) as 2 of (C)                     ?       23.8       2(.8       18.1       14.7
/a  Includes Rp 1,589 billion in loans for new BULOG operations,
Note:  (A)   Less than 1-vear maturitv;
(B)   1 to  vr as'  maturitv (KIB, KTK/KlfKP, Minicredit and others) and
(C)   5 years and above (IBRD-, IDA- and ADB-financed projects).
Source: BRI,



104'                                                         106'
BAN GKA
Pa ngkalpinc ng
Tani unpondond
\ \       /              /r            v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sekayu                                                                                                I O
I               \->  ~-7BELITUNG'
PALEMBANG
Lubovk!inggou                Perobumulih, /          >^tKayuogung                                                             INDONESIA
Lu uklinggau                 PerJbu                                                                                RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
, <  {4tSuaraen m   ) I                                                                    Selatan and Lampung
>   Lahat2 A                                                                                                A & >  ^  BRI regional office
A  BRI branches                              4.
.4-           jPagorajom                                           Boturojo                                        *                                      Cattle
CN                       O\,,)                                                                              C   Coffee
6'              0                    f   0P  Pepper
/                          tt       AKotabumii                                                         Roads
/                                                                                                -   -  Province boundaries
p
- |  SMetro     106'                                                         108-
C  THAILAND                            PHIUPPINES
cTnjungkorang                             L A Y S SRUN       -               -
Tel  betung                                     anIGP4~c--
t >                                                                               <, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SINGAPORE    ,   PAPUA
SLcArAERA        XAiIMANTrAN                                   GUNEA
o            50            100           150                                                                                         I           D     O      N     E      S      I     A  UDINEAN   _
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                I                               OAm              JAYA CEW
0                    50                     100                                                                                          akarta
t 6                         MI S                                  1'c m1rn1S>~urCrx1f*1r th r #}}1 - . rl ih. r.vilJRer* rvad lh &;t n r  6  Purwakorto JAVA
_                                  hhr r  r1Rw rl I   wol  f/ts r.c.rt- hc       c c otr . r Cc rvWc and  Idc Jlm nyccvcc 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 104-  r s mr                    sbccc.;h  d .,cc c.v,.ccvc cv ad .vd,Icc.v  cv rcc c'cctcvc   ol surc- ccccc.,vsc                                            Qv



A
IBRD 13187R
INDONESIA'
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
JAWA                        ,dtL
JAKARTA                                                                                                                                                * Mt eon9tee
(    goood  o   3wo89  =   i-[                                                                                                i  eckl h fishDonds                        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LiPOCIR lOtjod
MAM                                                                                                            Fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.hiOtwtr it0et
L3b9hbreg gg.o. 5 .]ns , 7 * COtl                                                                                                                                                                   ggoIt
JA              B S    T 
oulotohonfotu   Molol   tz   X            XYO (J ~~~~~~~~ ~~~A WA             T E N 3    H                            >         i
c s WARor . . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ -od
,--                                                       A              - ..    o  a5    ?  
JULY 1990



N
IBRD 13187R
"' or  lIar                             INDONESIA'
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
JAWA
IS RI head afttio
Z            JAKARTA                                                                                                                                                                                        SRI b,..h.,                                     0oon iA EfIe
LOU^4^nquos dtoq   "                                                                                                                                                                     F7,hm, ,,,  wa ic. ct.a
0 J ~~~AKwBAXR /A                                                                                                T-,1 fih.
e \ v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* CatTl ; 
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  .. 6 .    ..
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od
s0s>!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K..
0pO-,.,,:, ~ ~~~~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ES                                                                      N            HI06T
0,.r,,,,,  20ar]  .0        tt75   jO 7J 100
L__ r >YlwO I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY19



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Palu                                                                Luwuk                          Sulawesi Selatan
A   BRI regional office
iN.                              ft)so                                                                            A  BRI branches
.   L SUAWESS /    TENGAH                                                                               * Fishing boatsand ice plants
.                                                                                                       I9 OBrackish fishponds
0Kolonodol                                                          _    Ratl
-Roads
SULAWESI                   ^                                                                                     -  Prrvince boundaries
SELATAN
j Momuiu
Makale        Popo  
AL   _p i                 X          eli          /  SULAWESI
Pijnre     nre k ngTENGGARA
-2-              KoreporeS                                                        tDendari                                                                                    2-
Sin gng                              Koloka
Wotonso Pen 
r   atompone
Pongkojenii    2            ;?                             --' -,  \.--                , ';                o0         50         100       150        200
KILOMETERS
LIJUNGPANDANQiZ'  ros                                                                         , 
UJUNGPANDANi   Mar s                                                                                         25      50       75      too      125
*                   ~~~~~~V
Sungguminaso                                                      t            ubou                                    MILES
Takolo 
~Jb   Bulukumba                                                              ,, THAILAND                          PHILIPPINES
Jeneponto                                                                                      L A Y S
1ew fo { s     ul to.        C SINGAPORE
-4-                                                         4--                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA?"A
_  -. ','"', "~' % 1  I4wvdasu  4-  Ifln     rAt AMANAUA                                 N!EW
Benteng A                                 ..I* h,l.Fa.                                                                                 GUINEA
0               '~~'~'**-.*  "-. '~~~-.~~.."'~'~~"-.       ePAngkoIwI.n gaAA
rarAIS ~~~~~OA'  ~I                N     D                      0S     I     A  /#,Av
.. ; md h. horulwr ro oPuroolpmrmo ~~~~~~~0 S                            IAIfS 51A /PANI
ow t,O'AVP a' -              Pu~~~~angrw'okorto
C20                                             .                                                                        TIMORW-*ub  Tanoerelngo  _  ibC
_                      ~~~~~~~~120-                                      122- e'e                                                                 riMoRt                   lco



