Report No. 1741 -IND                                                 IFILE  CPY
Indonesia
Appraisal of a Rural Credit Project
June 1, 1978
Rural Credit and Agro-Business Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       = Rp 415
Rp 1.00       =  US$0.0024
Rp 1 million  =  US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)   =  2.2 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
ASKRINDO  - Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BI        - Bank Indonesia
BIMAS     - Mass Guidance (a farm input-credit program)
BRI       - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DAN       - State Accountancy Directorate
DG        - Directorate General
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
IDA       - International Development Association
INMAS     - Mass Intensification (a farm input program)
KIB       - General Investment Credit
KIK       - Small Investment Credit
KMKP      - Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
LPPI      - Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
PDD       - Program Development Department of BRI
PMU       - Project Management Unit
RCP       - Rural Credit Project
SEDP      - Small Enterprise Development Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government              - April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia          - April 1 to March 31
Bank Rakyat Indonesia  -  January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .i...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
1.  INTRODUCTION  .1...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
2.  THE ECONOMY AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . .        2
The Economy .*.... . . . . . ..                                    2
The Agricultural Sector .... . . . ..                              2
3.  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
4.  BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA (BRI) ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
Management and Organization .... . .                               5
Staffing and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
Procedures    ..7
Lending Operations ..                                              8
Financial Performance and Position  . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
Accounting and Management Information . . . . . . . . . . .        9
Audit   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .  9
5.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Objectives   ..10
General Scope    . . ..10
Subloan Categories    ..11
Project Management in BRI .14
Branch Participation  ..15
Technical Assistance in Term Lending  . . . . . . . . . . .       15
Technical Assistance in Accounting and
Management Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
Monitoring and Evaluation    ..16
Project Cost and Financing    ..17
Subloan Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
Disbursement   ..19
Procurement ... . .20
Accounts and Audit   ..20
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements . . . . . . . . . . .       20
Project Execution Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
6. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Productioii-.-..-... .................. .  21
Marketing . ....................... .    22
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Risks   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  24
Environmental Effect:s    ........... .  25
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .............. . .    25
ANNEXES
1.  Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
Tables
1.  Summary of Lending Operations, 1973-76
2.  Summary of Short-term Lending Operations, 1973-76
3.  Summary of Term Lending Operations, 1973-76
4.  Summarized Income Statements, 1972-77
5.  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1972-77
6. Loans Outstanding and Loans in Arrears by
Type of Lending
7. Loans Outstanding and Loans in Arrears by Sector
8. Loans Outstanding, Loans in Arrears and Dubious
Loans as of December 31, 1976
9. Loans Outstanding, Loans in Arrears and Dubious Loans as
of December 31, 1977
Charts
No. 17385 - BRI Typical Regional Office Organization
No. 17387 - BRI Typical Branch Office Organization
No. 17849 - BRI Head Office Organization
2.  Project Subsectors
3.  Existing Agricultural Credit Operations
Tables
1. BIMAS Paddy Packages for 1977/78
2. BIMAS Secondary Crop Packages for 1977/78



-3-
3. BIMAS Lending for Paddy and Secondary Crops
4. Area Covered by BIMAS and INMAS Paddy
5. BIMAS Paddy Credit Repayment Performance - Total Java
6. BIMAS Secondary Crops Credit Repayment Performance - Total Java
4.   Project Subloan Categories - Explanation and Models
Tables
la Investment Cost for One Hectare Pepper Planting in Bangka
lb Cash Flow Projection for One Hectare Pepper Farm in Bangka
2a Investment Cost for One Hectare Pepper Planting in Lampung
2b Cash Flow Projection for One Hectare Pepper Farm in Lampung
3a Investment Cost for Coffee Deep-pruning (Lampung)
3b Cash Flow Projection for One Hectare Coffee Farm (Lampung)
4a Investment Cost for Cattle Breeding Packages
4b Cash Flow for Cattle Breeding Packages in South Sulawesi
4c Cash Flow for Cattle Breeding Packages in Lampung
4d Cash Flow for Cattle Breeding Packages in Java
4e Cattle Herd Projections
5a Investment Cost for One Hectare Brackish Water Fishpond
5b Cash Flow for One Hectare Brackish Water Fishpond, Monoculture
5c  Cash Flow for One Hectare Brackish Water Fishpond, Mixed Culture
6a Investment Cost for One Hectare Freshwater Fishpond
6b Cash Flow for One Hectare Freshwater Fishpond
7a Investment Cost for Boat Motorization
7b Cash Flow for Boat Motorization
8a Investment Cost for Five-ton Ice Plant
8b  Cash Flow for Five-ton Ice Plant
5.   Economic Analysis of Subloan Categories
Tables
1. Economic Rates of Return for Perennial Crops
2. Economic Rates of Return for Cattle Breeding
3. Economic Rates of Return for One Hectare Fishponds
4. Economic Rate of Return for Fishing Boat Motorization
5. Economic Rate of Return for Five-ton Ice Plant
6.   Term Lending Consultancy - Draft Terms of Reference
7.   Consultancy on Accounting, Management Information and
Related Matters - Terms of Reference



-4-
8. Evaluation Study - Draft Terms of Reference
9. Draft Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
10. Project Cost
Tables
1. Project Cost by Province
2. Estimated Project Cost (Commitments) by Year
11. Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
12. Action Program for Project Implementation
13. Guidelines for Project Lending
MAPS
13186 South Sumatra and Lampung
13187 Java
13188 South Sulawesi



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        Until the end of 1973, there was virtually no medium- or long-term
financing available to smallholders in Indonesia. Since then, the Government
and Bank Indonesia (BI), the central bank, have introduced national programs
for medium-term (1-5 years) Small Investment Credits (KIK) and Small Permanent
Working Capital Credits (KMKP) of up to Rp 5 million (US$12,000), and Mini-
credits of Rp 10,000-100,000. Long-term lending has been confined to a few
Bank Group and Asian Development Bank (ADB)-financed projects for a narrow
range of purposes.
ii.       Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the Government-owned commercial bank
responsible for rural development, is the credit channel of the Mini-credit
and Bank Group- and ADB-financed projects, and about 80% of KIK/KMKP lending
for agriculture. BRI also implements the Mass-Guidance (BIMAS) program of
seasonal production credit, primarily for irrigated rice but also for upland
rice and secondary crops. In order to undertake these various Government
programs, BRI has had to expand very rapidly over the past five years. This
expansion exacerbated a number of institutional weaknesses, including a
cumbersome and inconsistent accounting system, the lack of uniformity in the
use of credit procedures, and the shortage of qualified technical staff.
Under the guidance of BI, BRI has been taking a number of important steps to
rectify the situation.
iii.      The project would expand and improve the supply of term credit to
smallholders through (a) provision of funds to BRI for long-term lending in
selected geographic areas for a range of agricultural activities (chiefly
fisheries, cattle breeding and perennial crops) and (b) strengthening of BRI
through a program of technical assistance to enable it to implement properly
both this project and its other term-credit programs, especially KIK/KMKP,
which is being supported by an IDA credit under the Small Enterprise Develop-
ment Project. The project would be the first phase of broad Bank-Group
support for some ongoing activities and others which are being developed as
part of a long-term program through BRI. It would be implemented in selected
BRI branches throughout Java and in South Sulawesi, South Sumatra, Lampung
(Sumatra) and such other provinces as may later be agreed. About 42% of project
lending would be in Java, where BRI's capability is highest, and 58% in the
other islands, where the scope for long-term credit is greatest. There would
be approximately 40,000 subloans financed over 3 years, with average size of
about US$1,000, for perennial crops (pepper and coffee), cattle breeding, and
fisheries (brackish- and fresh-water ponds, fishing boat motorization and ice
plants), plus such other categories as BRI, BI and the Association agree upon
during project implementation. The project will also finance about 20 man-
years of consultancy at BRI in term-lending, 3 man-years of consultancy
in accounting and management information, training of BRI staff, and an
evaluation study of the project's socio-economic impact.



- ii -
iv.       Total project cost is estimated at US$60.0 million, of which
foreign exchange costs would be US$9.5 million, or 16% of the total. Capital
assistance costs would be US$57.0 million and technical assistance US$3.0 mil-
lion. An IDA credit of US$30.0 million equivalent at the standard rate is
proposed, including about US$20.5 million of local-cost financing (34% of total
project cost), and up to US$300,000 of retroactive financing for technical
assistance. The credit would be made to the Government, which would bear the
foreign exchange risk, and would onlend it to BRI at a rate of 3% per annum
(p.a.). BRI's spread under the project would be about 5.8% p.a.
v.        The IDA credit would cover the direct foreign exchange cost and 50%
of the local cost of training, the total cost of consultants, and 68% of the
advances provided to BRI by BI for project subloans (equivalent to 54% of
subloan amount). Given the small size and wide geographic and temporal spread
of the subloans, bulking for the purpose of carrying out competitive bidding
would not be feasible. Procurement would generally be through regular commer-
cial channels, with arrangements for each subloan category worked out separately
by BRI, and reviewed by the Association.
vi.       The project would increase the incomes of some 40,000 small farmers
and fishermen, most of whom are expected to be quite poor. In addition, it
would create about 5,000 permanent jobs, and 35,000 manyears of construction
work. Annual export earnings would be some US$15.1 million, and production
of domestically-traded goods US$9.4 million. The estimated economic rate of
return is 27%.
vii.      The project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$30.0 million,
on standard terms.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested an IDA credit of
US$30.0 million to finance a Rural Credit Project through Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI). The IDA credit would meet 50% of total project cost,
including US$20.5 million of local cost.
1.02      The credit would be made to the Government, which would on-lend the
proceeds to BRI under a subsidiary loan agreement. Out of the credit proceeds,
its own funds and funds from Bank Indonesia (BI), the central bank, BRI would
provide long-term (beyond five years) subloans, primarily to small farmers and
fishermen, for investment in pepper, coffee, cattle breeding, fresh- and
brackish-water fishponds, fishing boat motorization, iceplants, and such other
agricultural subloan categories as BRI, BI and IDA shall later agree upon. In
addition, the credit would finance consultants at BRI in investment credit,
training, agriculture, economics, accounting and management information. It
would also finance training of BRI staff and an evaluation study of project
lending.
1.03      This would be the sixth Bank Group operation directly involving
BRI. Under the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project (Credit 358-IND)
and the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND), BRI is
the channel for collecting sub-loan repayments from smallholders, but has no
say in borrower selection and bears no financial risk. Under the Smallholders
and Private Estates Tea (Credit 400-IND) and Fisheries Credit (Credit 480-IND)
Projects, BRI, with technical support from the Ministry of Agriculture, has
full responsibility for making and collecting individual subloans. The
project would follow this latter approach, but with broader sectoral coverage
and a greater focus on strengthening BRI. Under the Small Enterprise
Development Project (SEDP; Credit 785-IND), BRI handles almost two-thirds of
the lending made to all sectors under BI's Small Investment Credit (KIK)
program which provides term-finance to small entrepreneurs in urban and rural
areas. In the supply of credit to the agricultural sector, the project would
complement the SEDP, as the former would provide credit for subloans of more
than five years, and the latter for those of five years or less. Certain
lending now done under the KIK program would be transferred to the project,
where the latter's long-term finance was required. Furthermore, the project's
strengthening of BRI's term-lending capability would greatly assist the
implementation of the SEDP as well.
1.04      The project was prepared by BRI, assisted by an IDA preparation
review mission in February 1976, and a pre-appraisal mission in May 1976.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. S. Ettinger, A. Gros (IDA), R. Campbell, P. de Waard, P. Nicholson
and T. Yamamoto (Consultants) which visited Indonesia in October/November
1976. Follow-up discussions were held in Indonesia during March and November
1977.



- 2-
2. THE ECONOMY AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Economy
2.01      The Indonesian economy, while predominantly agricultural, has a
broad resource base including abundant supplies of oil, gas and a variety of
minerals. Since the late 1960s, economic progress has been rapid, with GDP
growing by an average of about 7.5% p.a. in real terms; employment growth,
however, has been much less rapid. The First Five-Year Plan, 1969-74,
emphasized rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure and expansion of
production; most of the physical objectives were achieved. In the Second
Five-Year Plan, 1974-79, greater attention is being paid to employment and
income distribution. The latest Bank economic report (Report No. 2026-IND of
April 26, 1978) analyzes recent economic developments, short-term prospects
aad development issues in Indonesia.
The Agricultural Sector
2.02      Agriculture - including forestry, livestock and fisheries - contri-
butes about 36% of GDP, generates 82% of non-oil exports and nearly two-thirds
of employment. The structure of the sector is dualistic, consisting of some
14.4 million smallholder farmers who cultivate about 14.2 million ha, and
about 1,800 large estates occupying 2.2 million ha. About 70% of all farms
have less than 1 ha. Smallholders dominate production in all subsistence and
cash crops, except oil palm and tea. Foodcrops, principally rice, cassava,
corn, soybeans, fruits and vegetables, account for about 63% of total agri-
cultural output, other annual crops 10%, perennial crops 4%, livestock 7%,
forestry 11% and fisheries 4%. The main cash crops are rubber, tea, coconuts,
oil palm, sugar, and coffee; with the exception of sugar, these are Indonesia's
major export crops.
2.03      The primary aim of development policies in this sector has been to
increase food supplies, create productive employment, raise the incomes of
the rural poor, and improve net foreign exchange earnings by increasing
crop exports and reducing rice imports. In the First Plan, investments were
directed towards rehabilitation of (a) neglected irrigation networks and
other essential infrastructure affecting smallholders, and (b) rundown public
sector estates (mostly rubber and oil palm) which were well placed to increase
exports fairly quickly. Agricultural output grew at about 3.5% p.a. during
the early 1970s. Rice production increased from 12.2 million tons (of paddy)
in 1969 to 15.3 million tons in 1974. In the past three years, however, it
has grown very slowly, reaching only 15.9 million tons in 1977, due to a
variety of causes including drought, the spread of pests, and difficulties
with the production credit program (BIMAS). As a result, Indonesia is now
the world's largest rice importer, and imported 2.6 million tons in 1977/78.
Production of a number of export crops, particularly rubber, oil palm, tea
and coffee, has, however, continued to grow substantially. In the current
Plan greater emphasis is placed on raising the productivity and incomes of
the smallholders. In pursuit of these objectives, Government has introduced
a wide range of assistance programs to the agricultural sector, especially
credit schemes, extension services and research.



- 3 -
2.04      Perennial Crops.  Indonesia is among the world's largest producers
and exporters of rubber, coconuts, palm oil and spices, and grows large
amounts of coffee and tea as well (Annex 2).  In the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Directorate General (DG) of Estate Crops is responsible for smallholder
production, and the advisory staff to the Minister of Agriculture for public
sector plantations. The plantations were the main target of Government
investment during the First Plan; since 1974, efforts to assist smallholders
have been increased, especially for rubber and coconuts, the two major crops.
The main efforts involve block planting or replanting, assisted and supervised
by either a public sector plantation ("nucleus estate") or a special unit of
the extension service ("project management unit" or PMU). Government has
been experimenting with different degrees of intensity of assistance/super-
vision, different size blocks, and different mixes of grants and credits to
the smallholders.
2.05      Livestock.  Indonesia has about 6.2 million cattle, 2.3 million
buffalo, 95 million chickens and ducks, and 13 million smallstock (sheep,
goats, pigs). The cattle population has dropped by 10% over the past decade,
and the buffalo population by 18%. The cattle are primarily multi-purpose
animals, used for work, manure, meat and sometimes milk. Except for a few
ranches, almost all are owned by smallholders, and integrated into their
farming activities. The DG of Animal Husbandry's main programs for assisting
these farmers are disease control, artificial insemination and the credit
programs through BRI for cattle fattening and breeding. The Livestock Project
(Credit 355-IND), which was originally aimed at producing beef for export, now
emphasizes breeding draft animals, as the high slaughter rate of animals for
meat and the growing need for draft power on the outer islands, have created a
shortage of draft animals.
2.06      Fisheries.  Indonesian fisheries has four main branches:  marine,
coastal (or artisanal), fish cultivation (chiefly fishponds) and fresh-water
capture (rivers and lakes). The first is dominated by large commercial
enterprises, including many foreign firms and joint ventures. The second
consists of some 850,000 small fishermen, mainly using small sailboats and
traditional gear. Fish cultivation covers about 180,000 ha of brackish-water
ponds, 40,000 ha of freshwater ponds, and 80,000 ha of paddy fields, and
employs some 500,000 people. Brackish-water ponds, which are located
primarily along the north coast of Java and in South Sulawesi, are being
supported under the Fisheries Credit Project. Another 700,000 people are
engaged in inland fish capture, mostly part-time. The DG of Fisheries
supervises fisheries development in Indonesia.
3. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
3.01      Overview.  Until about ten years ago, almost the only source of
credit for smallholders was from local patrons or moneylenders, with high
explicit or implicit interest rates. Even today, these remain an important
source of credit, and many farmers are deeply in debt to them. BRI is by far



the largest source of institutional credit for smallholders, and Bank Bumi
Daya the main source for estates. Other state banks have occasionally
handled agricultural programs in special situations, and finance some agri-
cultural lending under the KIK/KMKP program. Institutional credit for
smallholders is almost always on a somewhat subsidized basis; the interest
rate is 12% p.a. for most short-term credit programs (such as BIMAS), and was
recently reduced from 12% to 10.5% p.a. for KIK and from 15% to 12% p.a. for
KMKP./l Short-term production credit for rice and other crops is available
under BIMAS and certain KMKP mkass ("massal") programs. M4edium-term investment
and working capital in virtually all sectors are financed under the Mini-credit
program if below Rp 100,000, KIK/KMKP up to Rp 5 million, and the general
investment credit (KIB) program above that. Until January, 1978, long-term
finance was available only under a number of Bank Group or ADB-financed
projects for particular commodities; now lending under KIB can be for up to
ten years.
3.02      BIMAS and INMAS.  Under BIMAS, farmers get extension advice, and
obtain loans from BRI's village units for inputs (fertilizer, seed and agro-
chemicals) and cash subsistence expenses. The BIT4AS program, which concen-
trates on rice and some secondary crops, commenced in 1965, and by 1974/75
covered almnost 25% (2.2 million ha) of the wet season paddy area and about 5%
(0.2 million ha) of the area under dry season secondary crops. The program
covers the main irrigated areas in Java, but has been less successful in
spreading to the other islands, which account for only 21% of the wet season
BIMAS paddy area. The program has recently been experiencing high arrears,
due to a variety of factors, including the spread of pests, adverse weather,
and changes in the supply and prices of fertilizer. As borrowers two or more
seasons in arrears are generally ineligible for further loans, these arrears
have limited the coverage of BIMAS; the wet season 1976/77 coverage was down
to 1.8 million ha, from 2.1 - 2.2 million ha in each of the previous three
years. Farmers ineligible for BIMAS loans have had access to fertilizer and
other inputs through the Mass Intensification (INMAS) program. Until late
1977, INMAS did not include credit. Starting with the 1977/78 wet season,
however, INMAS provides credit, on the same terms as BIMAS, for incremental
fertilizer purchases. The coverage of INMAS has increased rapidly, and now
exceeds that of BIMAS.
3.03      KMKP "Massal".  About 11% of KMKP finance has gone to agriculture,
primarily for BIMAS-type mass credit operations, handled mainly (67%) by BRI,
for pepper, cloves, poultry, cattle fattening, fisheries, tobacco, cotton and
sugar cane (Annex 3). These provide essentially seasonal working capital,
usually for 6-18 months. Loans are made to individuals, with individual
repayment responsibility, but the appraisal of borrower creditworthiness is
limited, and targets are set jointly by BRI and the respective DGs of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The performance of these programs, especially as
regards repayment, has been mixed.
/1 By comparison, the inflation rate in 1975-76 averaged 20% p.a., but has
tapered off to around 10% p.a. in 1977.



- 5 -
3.04      KIK. About 22% of KIK finance has gone to agriculture, primarily
for warehouses, drying floors, fishponds, fishing boats, draft animals,
poultry, rice mills and water pumps. BRI has done 86% of KIK agricultural
lending.
3.05      Mini-Credits.  BRI's village units extend mini-credits of Rp 10,000-
100,000 for both fixed investment and working capital. As of December 31,
1976, cumulative disbursements had totalled Rp 18.2 billion for working
capital and Rp 3.1 billion for investment, mostly for trade and agriculture.
There is substantial unmet demand, but progress has been gradual because of
the need to rely on budget funds, as well as the limited implementation
capacity of the village units. Studies carried out by the Government and BRI
indicate very good collection performance, apparently due in part to effective
coordination with the traditional village system.
3.06      Long-term Lending.  Long-term agricultural credit is provided only
for certain commodities in specified areas, under two types of arrangements.
Under the Bank Group-financed Smallholder and Private Estates Tea and Fisheries
Credit Projects, and the ADB-financed East Java Agricultural Credit Project,
BRI appraises, extends and assumes the risk on individual loans: for tea
factories and replanting of tea by smallholders and estates, for ice plants
and brackish-water fishponds, and for equipment (power tillers, water pumps,
vehicles and storage) for cooperatives, respectively. Under the Bank Group-
financed North Sumatra Smallholders Project, and the Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders I Project, rubber and oilpalm areas are block-planted, and
then handed over to smallholders who assume the repayment obligation to BRI,
which has neither appraised the individual loans, nor assumed the risk of
non-repayment.
IV. BAKE:K RAKYAT INDONESIA (BRI)
4.01      Overview.  BRI is the main institutional source of rural credit
in Indonesia, and has the largest staff and branch network of the five state-
owned commercial banks. BRI has been increasing its financial support to
small farmers and fishermen, primarily under Government credit programs.
To carry out these activities, BRI expanded its staff by 70% between 1973 and
1977. This expansion exacerbated a number of institutional problems, such as
the shortage of high-calibre staff, lack of uniformity in the use of credit
procedures, an excessively complicated accounting system and a poor manageinent
information and control system. Cognizant of the situation, BRI has been
taking steps to remedy them; the Association, through the project, would be
supporting BRI in this task.
Management and Organization
4.02      Management.  BRI's Management Board consists of the President-
Director and up to four Managing Directors, all appointed by the Government for
five-year (renewable) terms. The current President-Director has, since his



appointment in August 1973, maintained firm control over BRI's day-to-day
operations, and overseen a number of efforts aimed at improving BRI's opera-
tional efficiency. Three of the present four Managing Directors were appointed
only recently, in late 1976 and early 1977. However, like the President-
Director, all have risen from the ranks of BRI and are fully familiar with its
diverse operations. Each Managing Director has general administrative respon-
sibility for three or four Bureaus and carries otlt other specific assignments
from time to time.
4.03      Organization.  BRI operates on a decentralized branch-banking basis,
with a head office in Jakarta, 13 regional offices, 267 branches, 63 sub-
branches, 3,270 village units, and 113 mobile units throughout Indonesia.
Tce head office (Chart 17849) performs essentially planning and control
functions, along with general administration. Regional offices (Chart 17385)
act as extensions of the head office in supervising and coordinating branch
activities. Branches (Chart 17387) are BRI's main organizational units; they
carry out most of the lending and are primarily responsible for deposits and
savings mobilization. Village and mobile units operate as appendages to
branches, primarily for the BIMAS and Mini-credit programs.
4.04      Term-Lending.  Functional responsibility for BRI's term-lending
operations rests with the three departments of the Investment Credit Bureau:
Appraisal and Supervision (which handles the KIB program), KIK/KMKP, and
Project Aid (which implements and monitors lending programs involving external
donors). Organizational arrangements for handling term-lending in the field
vary with branch and regional office size. In the typical pattern, a branch
would have one or two officers; handling primarily term lending, and a regional
office around three to five, working within larger units. The commitment
authority of branch managers ranges from Rp 2 million to Rp 5 million per
loan.
4.05      Planning.  The Planning Bureau's two original departments, Operations
Planning and Cost Planning, have so far concentrated on budget preparation and
implementation. A new Program Development Department was set up for the
project in January, 1978 (para. 5.11).
Staffing and Training
4.06      Staffing.  As of December 31, 1977, BRI had 22,600 employees, of
whom 70% had senior high school education, and 2% had university degrees. In
1976, the average monthly gross salary and benefits of a loan oEficer, the
lowest professional level, was US$160, which was below what other state commer-
cial banks paid in comparable positions. Because of its low salary scale,
BRI was limited to recruiting fresh graduates for low-echelon positions, and
filling middle- and senior-level positions from within. This, plus the fact
that promotion was primarily to managerial positions, made it difficult for
BRI to obtain adequate technical staff, especially in accounting and data
processing. Realizing the need to attract suitably qualified and experienced
personnel, BRI initiated, with BI support, a series of studies on its overall



- 7 -
salary and benefit structure. While this exercise is still underway, interim
results have led to a revised pension scheme for all personnel, improved
compensation for village unit staff, and the introduction of a separate grade
system for technical personnel, allowing promotion along specialty lines.
This last measure, coupled with the increased availability of agricultural
graduates, will enable BRI to hire the specialist staff required for the
project.
4.07      Training.  In addition to sending some of its officers to the
Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI), a school of
banking owned by BI and the state banks and formerly assisted by the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, BRI conducts training programs in both Jakarta and
the provinces for all levels of staff. Over the last few years, BRI has
devoted considerable efforts to staff training, primarily to meet the staffing
needs of new branches and village units. Further progress is required if
staff capabilities are to be commensurate with levels of responsibility,
particularly for term-credit. BRI recognizes this need; the project will
assist in reviewing and redesigning BRI's training programs, especially as
regards term-lending (para. 5.13).
Procedures
4.08      Credit Procedures.  Due to its large size and rapid growth, BRI has
found it difficult to ensure that credit procedures are applied uniformly
throughout its organization. The Banking Study Team, which evaluated BRI's
credit procedures and accounting system, as part of a BI program to upgrade
the operating procedures of all the state commercial banks, noted the
absence of detailed manuals as a main reason for inter-branch variations in
BRI's credit procedures; they also identified shortcomings in existing
appraisal, supervision and accounting practices. The Team's recommendations
are being generally implemented by BRI's management. In particular, task
forces have written detailed procedure manuals for various credit programs,
which are being distributed to all BRI branches.
4.09      Term-Lending Procedures.  BRI's term-lending operations for small
loans use simplified credit-investigation procedures that rely as much on the
borrowers' character and collateral as on project viability. Such an approach
is justifiable given the small size of individual loans, the limited education
and training of loan officers, the absence of subsectoral analysis upon which
to base estimates of project viability, and the difficulties in obtaining
information on clients' operations. However, to remedy some of the inherent
difficulties of smallholder term-financing, BRI is gradually shifting from
general ("umum") lending, where all loans are made on a purely case-by-case
basis, to mass ("massal") lending, for which separate credit programs are
developed by type of activity or subsector, before loans are made on either
an individual or group basis. The "massal" approach allows extensive subsec-
toral analysis to be applied, permits advisory and other supporting services to
be provided more efficiently to small borrowers, and reduces BRI's adminis-
trative costs (in comparison with equally small loans made on a case-by-case
basis). In addition, to overcome the problem of inadequate loan supervision,



-8 -
BRI is increasing term-lending staff and requiring that more time be spent on
supervision, and has prepared systematic follow-up procedures as part of its
term-credit manuals.
Lending Operations
4.10      BRI's lending operations (Annex 1, Table 1) grew very rapidly
during the first half of the 1970s, but leveled off in 1976. Disbursements,
which had risen from Rp 131.1 billion in 1971 to Rp 991.0 billion (about
US$2.4 billion) in 1975, dropped by 14% in 1976, essentially as a result of
tighter BI ceilings on general commercial ("non-program") credit. Lending
under most government programs ("program lending"), on the other hand, increased
due to generous credit expansion allowances from BI, but this was offset by
the decline in fertilizer import financing. Program lending, which accounted
for around 60% of BRI's outstanding portfolio at year-end 1973, had grown to
over 77% by year-end 1976. Finance for fertilizer import and distribution
accounted for 36% of the outstanding portfolio, followed by short-term agricul-
tural lending (27%), short-term lending to industry, trade and services
(primarily agro-industries and dealers and traders in farm products) (19%),
term-lending (16%) and personaL and other loans (2%). Although short-term
lending still accounted for 95% of total disbursements in 1976, medium- and
long-term lending increased from Rp 4.3 billion in 1973, to Rp 45.8 billion in
1976. The KIK/KMKP program accounted for 62% of 1976 term-lending disburse-
ments, Mini-credits for 26%, K:[B for 8% and long-term lending for 4%.
Financial Performance and Position
4.11      BRI's net income reached a peak of Rp 5.5 billion in 1974, but
dropped to Rp 3.3 billion in 1975, Rp 1.0 billion in 1976, and Rp 0.8 billion
in 1977.  The two main reasons for this trend are (a) BRI's expanded lending
to small borrowers, under programs (e.g. BIMAS, KIK/KMKP) with high administra-
tive costs and low interest rates, and the decline of BRI's two large profit-
able operations, fertilizer import financing and commercial non-program
lending, and (b) the rise in interest expenses as a percentage of total debt,
from 3.2% in 1974 to 6.3% in 1977, caused by the increasing proportion of
time and savings deposits, on which BRI pays relatively high interest, in
BRI's total debt.
4.12      Financial Position.  At year-end 1977, BRI's total assets stood at
Rp 665 billion (US$1.6 billion). BRI's liquidity position appears sound,
as does its present long-term capital structure (long-term debt/equity 1.5:1).
BRI's overall capital structure has improved substantially in recent years; its
debt/equity ratio decreased from 40:1 in 1973 to 13:1 in 1977, primarily as a
result of increased contributions from Government (which totalled Rp 14.7 bil-
lion at year-end 1977) and Bank Indonesia (Rp 25.0 billion), which are
interest free and have no fixed repayment schedule.



- 9 -
4.13      Arrears and Provisions for Doubtful Accounts.  Despite recent
improvements in the arrears position, overdue accounts remain BRI's main
financial problem. The actual arrears situation, however, cannot be estab-
lished with certainty, since BRI's internal reporting system (a) does not
record all loans in arrears, (b) treats program and non-program loans differ-
ently, and (c) provides only limited information on the age of arrears. BRI's
arrears problem is largely traceable to the complexities of smallholder
financing, including the difficulties of taking legal action against defaulters.
BRI is currently implementing its first three-year program (1977-1980) to
reduce loan arrears; procedures for follow-up and handling of overdue accounts
are being instituted, and new guidelines issued to the branches. This program
calls for appropriate measures to be taken (improved collection efforts,
restructuring or submission to litigation) on all delinquent accounts (except
under BIMAS, rice procurement and fertilizer loans). The objective of the
program is to bring arrearages on such accounts down to 12% of the outstanding
portfolio by year-end 1979. Partial implementation of the program has already
reduced the percentage of loan arrears in the categories covered by the
program from 24% at year-end 1976 to 21% at year-end 1977, primarily due to a
drop in arrears on commercial lending from 42% to 23%. Overall, 23% of BRI's
portfolio was in arrears as of December 31, 1977, (compared to 25% a year
earlier), with principal overdue amounting to Rp 105 billion (US$253 million).
BRI's financial exposure on these arrears totalled Rp 36.4 billion; the
remainder is guaranteed by BI, Government and ASKRINDO. BRI's provisions for
doubtful accounts totalled Rp 11.2 billion /1, which appears adequate.
Accounting and Management Information
4.14      Under the ADB-financed BRI Modernization Project, a series of
changes were made in the organization, management and operating procedures of
BRI. In particular, a new accounting system built around the use of electro-
mechanical accounting machines was introduced in BRI's Java branches. Con-
comitantly, to achieve consistency, a new manual accounting system was to be
developed and introduced in all nonmechanized branches. Since, the latter
part of the project was not carried out fully, there was considerable confusion
and delay in the preparation of BRI's financial reports. BRI then hired two
consultants from the firm of Price Waterhouse to review its accounting system
and propose corrective action. These consultants have completed the design
of a new manual accounting system, and are now testing that system, as well as
improving BRI's management information system, which will, inter alia improve
BRI's arrears recording and reporting.
Audit
4.15      Under its charter, BRI's accounts are audited annually by the State
Accountancy Directorate (DAN), whose reports are presently prepared in a form
and detail which makes it difficult to reach a judgment on some essential
/1 Government tax regulations allow such provisions to equal no more than 3%
of loans outstanding; BRI's provisions are somewhat below this ceiling.



- 10 -
aspects of BRI's financial condition. In particular, the audit report on BRI
ought to be gradually expanded1 to include a review of BRI's system of internal
audit controls and the auditors' recommendations for the improvement of such
controls, an analysis of BRI's loan portfolio and of the adequacy of reserves
for doubtful accounts, and a description of the coverage of the audit work
performed (type of activity, number of branches visited, etc.). During
negotiations, it was agreed that an auditing expert would be sent by the
Association, with terms of reference mutually acceptable to BRI, DAN and the
Association, to discuss the scope and detail of the general audit report on
BRI.
5. THE PROJECT
Objectives
5.01      The project would, over three years, expand and improve the supply
of term credit to smallholders by (a) providing funds through BRI for long-term
lending in selected geographic areas for a range of agricultural activities,
and (b) strengthening BRI through technical assistance, to enable it to
implement properly the lending both under the project and under its other
term credit programs, especially KIK/KMKP. It would be the first phase of
broad Bank-Group support for some ongoing activities and others which are
being developed as part of a long-term program through BRI.
General Scope
5.02      Project area.  The project would be implemented in selected branches
throughout Java (East, Central and West Java, and Yogyakarta), in South
Sulawesi, South Sumatra, Lampung (Sumatra) and such other provinces as BRI and
the Association later agree upon. These seven provinces have been selected on
the basis of their present need for long-term agricultural credit and BRI's
local implementation capacity, with due regard for the balance between Java
(about 42% of project lending), where BRI's capability is highest, and the
other islands (58%), where the scope for long-term credit, especially for
treecrops and livestock, is greatest.
5.03      Components.  The project would consist of the following:
(a) about 40,000 long-term subloans (US$41.0 million);
(b) about twenty man-years of consultancy on term-lending
at BRI's head and regional offices (US$1.5 million);
(c) about three man-years of consultancy for BRI's accounting,
management informaticin and related systems (US$0.3 million);
(d) training for key BRI term-lending staff (US$0.2 million); and



- 11 -
(e) an evaluation study of the project's socio-economic impact
(US$0.5 million).
It is anticipated that the subloans would be made by BRI over a three-year
period; although BRI would make most of its disbursements within a year after
subloan approval, BRI's disbursments on individual perennial crop subloans
would stretch for three to six years. The Association, however, would limit
its own disbursement period to six years./1 The consultancy would generally
be for three years, and would be gradually phased out over that period.
Subloan Categories
5.04      General.  Seven subloan categories requiring term-finance beyond
five years, have been appraised as economically and financially viable:
pepper, coffee, cattle breeding, brackish-water fishponds, freshwater fish-
ponds, fishing boat motorization and ice plants. Other categories may be
developed by BRI during project implementation, and submitted to BI and the
Association for approval. In addition, a small miscellaneous category would
be included, for subloan categories too small to warrant individual approval
by the Association. BRI would prepare annual lending programs for the
approved categories; for each such category, the Association's agreement
would be required for the aggregate ceiling, the provincial coverage,
and the technical support arrangements. The first year's program covering
the period April 1979-March 1980 would be submitted to the Association by
February 1, 1979. BRI would need the Association's agreement to exceed the
approved ceilings for each category by more than 20%. The Government would
strengthen the PMUs and extension services of the DGs of Estate Crops, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries in its Ministry of Agriculture located in the project
area, to provide adequate extension and other supporting services to project
subborrowers. The average subproject cost would be about US$1,000 (1977
prices). The subloans would usually be from about 5-1/2 to 11 years, with a
maximum of 15 years. The subloan ceilings would generally be set at or below
US$12,000 (the present KIK/KMKP ceiling).
5.05      Perennial crops.  Because of their long gestation period, perennial
crops generally require long-term finance for investment. BRI's experience
with perennial-crop finance has so far been limited to short-term clove and
pepper intensification under KMKP "massal." Under the project, BRI would
begin financing investment in smallholder pepper and coffee, both high-value
crops, in limited areas in South Sumatra and Lampung provinces, which both
come under BRI's Palembang regional office, as follows:
(a) Pepper - new and replanting (posts, mulching, fertilizer, pesticide
and fungicide) of an estimated 1,600 ha on Bangka Island (South
Sumatra) for white pepper production, and 1,200 ha in Lampung for
black pepper;
/1 The final two years' subloan disbursements on pepper in Lampung would
occur after the closing date, and therefore not be reimbursed under
the project; BRI's disbursements after the closing date would equal only
about 2% of the total project cost.



- 12 -
(b) Coffee - fertilizer for about 2,500 ha of coffee in Lampung after
"deep pruning" (cutting back the bushes to a height of about 6 in);
The coffee subloans would be approved only after BRI and the DG of Estate Crops
were satisfied that the deep ipruning had been properly done and the farmers
were maintaining their plantings satisfactorily. The PMUs involved with
coffee and pepper in Lampung would need strengthening to carry out their role
in the project.
5.06      Cattle breeding.  Cattle breeding is of high priority in view of
the serious shortage of draft animals in Java and Sumatra./l The DG of Animal
Husbandry and BRI have developed a credit package for cattle breeding in the
other islands consisting of credit to smallholders for the purchase of five
cows, plus cattle sheds, veterinary supplies and supplementary feed. The
basic objectives are to increase the calving rate and reduce the slaughter of
breeding cows. The project would finance part of this program, involving
purchase of some 30,000 cows. For South Sulawesi and East Java, the cattle
could probably all be procured locally, whereas for Central Java, Yogyakarta
and especially Lampung, some would need to be brought in from other provinces,
or imported. The basic credit: package would be for two cows in Java and
Lampung, and two or five cows in South Sulawesi. The DG of Animal Husbandry
would need to set up one bull unit per 50 cows financed under the project to
supplement the artificial insemination program, and to have at least one
field extension worker per 30C0 subborrowers, working through farmers group
leaders.
5.07      Fisheries.  Four fisheries categories are proposed, as follows:
(a) Brackish-water fishponds - improvement of about 22,000 ha of
existing ponds along the north coast of Java and in South Sulawesi,
the main production areas, with finance mainly for construction of
dikes, canals and gates and for incremental working capital (fry,
fertilizer, pesticides). This would be a continuation of a com-
ponent of the Fisheries Credit Project which is expected to be
fully committed by early 1979. About 25-30% of the ponds would be
mixed milkfish and shrimp culture, and the rest milkfish monoculture.
The DG of Fisheries would need to establish about 15 new demonstra-
tion ponds for the new project areas;
(b)  Freshwater fishponds - pond deepening and improvement of dikes and
inlets for some 1,500) ha in West Java, with improved pond design,
expanded extension wcork, and increased use of feed and organic
fertilizer. So far, credit has been given under the KIK and Mini-
investment programs, but without supporting technical services.
About 5 demonstration ponds would need to be built, for research and
extension, especially on polyculture of bottom-, middle- and surface-
feeding fish;
/1 There is about one pair of draft animals per 5 ha agricultural land on Java,
and per 50 ha on the other islands. The need cannot be computed exactly,
primarily due to variations in land use.



- 13 -
(c) Fishing boat motorization - a pilot program involving inboard motors
for about 250 existing (but less than 3-years old) "payang" sailing
boats of at least 8 meters at selected ports in Java and in South
Sulawesi, where new shore facilities are being constructed. The
primary benefit would be to enable the boats to go further out,
fish on calm days, and spend a larger proportion of their time on
the fishing grounds. As there is little experience with inboard
motors on small fishing boats in Indonesia (some outboard motors,
which require only medium-term credit, are being financed under
KIK), both the socio-economic impact and the technical suitability
would need to be monitored carefully; and
(d) Iceplants - about 10 small (approximately 5-ton/day) iceplants,
primarily at these same ports in Java and South Sulawesi, to serve
both the newly-motorized boats and other boats drawn to the port
facilities. Because of the critical need for ice to support both
marine and fishpond development, an exception to the Rp 5 million
subloan ceiling would be made in this case. Iceplant subloans would
be made after subloans have been made for the 9 small iceplants
to be financed under the Fisheries Credit Project.
5.08      Additional Subloan Categories.  The categories identified above are
expected to account for about 80% of project lending. In addition, BRI's
PDD would develop new categories for inclusion in the project, subject to IDA
and BI approval, within the agricultural sector (including small processing
plants).
5.09      Miscellaneous Category.  In addition to new subloan categories of
significant size, there will be scattered demand for other long-term agricul-
tural loans for which the full process of subloan category clearance through
the Association would not be justified and would cause inordinate delays.
Therefore, after a branch has participated satisfactorily in the project for
one year, it would be permitted aggregate lending for a "miscellaneous"
category up to 20% of the amount of its aggregate lending for approved
categories. Possible areas for both additional subloan categories and the
miscellaneous category include poultry and other smallstock, fruit trees,
cocoa, tea, spices, and processing and storage facilities.
5.10      Summary.  The estimated composition of project sublending is shown
in the table below. It should be noted that these are indicative amounts,
and the actual size of the various categories could be quite different.



- 14 -
PROJECT SUBLOAN CATEGORIES
Average Subproject  No. of    Total Cost
Category              Project Size    Size    Cost ($)  Subloans   ($ million)
------------------ (1977 prices)-----------
Pepper - Bangka        1,600 ha       0.8 ha       3,260      2,000        6.5
Pepper - Lampung       1,200 ha       0.8 ha       1,840      1,500        2.0/a
Coffee                 2,500 ha       0.8 ha         500      3,125        1.6
Cattle - Java         14,000 head    2.4 head        640      5,830        3.7
Cattle - Lampung       4,000 head    2.5 head        750      1,600        1.2
Cattle - South
Sulawesi            12,000 head    5 head        1,275      2,400        3.1
Brackish ponds -
monoculture         16,000 ha       2 ha           980      8,000        7.8
Brackish ponds -
mixed culture        6,000 ha       3 ha         1,940      2,000        3.9
Freshwater ponds       1,500 ha       0.3 ha         280      5,000        1.4
Fishing boat
motorization           250 boats   1 boat        1,930        250        0.5
Ice plants                10 plants  1 plant    90,360           10        0.9
Subtotal              -          -            1,025    31,715       32.6
Unspecified                           -            1,025      8,285        8.4
Total                            -            1,025    40,000        41.0
/a  Total cost would be $2.8 million; however, about $0.8 million of this
would occur after the closing date, and is therefore not included in the
project cost.
Project Management in BRI
5.11      As regards term lending, the project aims to strengthen the planning,
training and monitoring ability of BRI's head office, the supervisory role of
its regional offices, and the implementation capacity of its branches. At
the head office, the main bureaus involved would be Planning, Investment
Credit and Education. Within the Planning Bureau, the new Program Development
Department (PDD) would, in coordination with the DGs concerned, prepare
annual lending programs for alt project subloan categories. The PDD would
also have responsibility for developing new categories, and for carrying out
the evaluation study, with technical assistance. The head of the PDD was
appointed January 1, 1978, and was provided with 8 young graduates in agri-
culture and economics. Within the Investment Credit Bureau, the existing



- 15 -
Project Aid Department, which supervises BRI's ongoing externally-financed
long-term lending projects, would also handle implementation and monitoring
of the project, including writing procedures for each subloan category within
the general framework of BRI's procedure manuals for term loans. The Education
Bureau would assess the need for special training in term lending for BRI
staff at all levels, and, in consultation with LPPI, would provide most of the
additional training needed for implementation of both the project and KIK/KMKP.
At the larger participating regional offices, separate term-lending departments
would be created; in the smaller regional offices, there would be a term-lending
section in the credit department. The regional offices have recently been
sent additional staff to enable them to supervise the branches' term-lending
much more actively than at present. At negotiations, BRI reviewed with the
Association the organization and staffing for term lending of the participating
regional offices, as well as the PDD and the Project Aid Department; these
appear satisfactory.
Branch Participation
5.12      Some 55 branches would make subloans under the project, with about
25 participating in the first year, 15 more the second year, and the final
15 joining in the third year. One constraint on the rate of entry of new
branches is expected to be the regional offices' ability to supervise them
adequately. Preference would be given to branches with ongoing term lending
operations in categories which would be included in the project (e.g. brackish-
water fishponds under the Fisheries Credit Project; cattle breeding under
KIK). Special training would be given to at least one loan officer ("mantri")
and one supervisor in term lending before entry of a branch into the project.
In addition, BRI would take the necessary measures to ensure satisfactory
repayment of project subloans, giving special attention to branches with a
project collection rate /1 below 70%, and would review these measures and
the results with the Association.
Technical Assistance in Term Lending
5.13      About twenty man-years of technical assistance in term lending would
be financed by the project, to enable BRI to strengthen its overall term-
lending capability. The consultancy would consist of an economist, a training
specialist, three development bankers, and three agriculturalists, for 1-1/2
to 3 years each, plus some short-term visits, as follows:
(a) Program-development economist, who would work in BRI's Planning
Bureau, primarily to guide and assist the PDD in the development
of programs for both this project and other term lending;
/1 Defined as amount collected divided by amount that should have been
collected, which consists of outstanding arrears at the beginning of the
year plus amounts newly falling due.



- 16 -
(b)  Training specialist, who would advise and assist BRI's Education
Bureau on all aspects of training for term lending, including
identification of training requirements and development of courses;
(c)  Development bankers..  A senior development banker would be attached
to BRI's Investment Credit Bureau, and two other development bankers
would rotate between the six regional offices concerned. The senior
development banker would monitor the progress of the various units
in BRI engaged in implementation of the project and other term
lending, and would help prepare and maintain up-to-date procedure
manuals for these programs. The two other development bankers
would assist and supervise the regional offices and branches in
implementation; and
(d)  Agriculturalists.  A perennial-crops expert would be stationed in
Palembang to assist in the design and implementation of the pepper
and coffee categories. A livestock specialist and a fisheries
expert would be stationed in Jakarta, working in the Planning
Bureau on the design of lending programs, and assisting the Invest-
ment Credit Bureau with their implementation. The consultants
would need to be experienced in marketing as well as in production
aspects.
At negotiations, agreement was reached that the economist, the training
specialist, and at least two development bankers and two agriculturalists
would be appointed by January 1, 1979, and the remaining consultants by
April 1, 1979.
Technical Assistance in Accounting and Management Information
5.14       Two consultants from Price Waterhouse (para. 4.14) who were financed
for a year under the ADB-financed BRI Modernization Project, which closed on
April 30, 1977, would be financed under the project for about three man-years,
including up to US$300,000 for retroactive finance on expenditures since May 1,
1977. Since that date, the consultants have completed the design and
testing of a unified chart of accounts and a management information system
built around it, and are starting to supervise its implementation. In
addition, they are examining the operations of BRI's Jakarta Special Branch
(which handles, inter alia, the financing of fertilizer distribution) and the
Interbranch Clearing Office.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15       BRI would obtain assistance from a suitable Indonesian research
center or university to (a) help develop BRI's own subloan monitoring and
evaluation capability, and (b) design and help implement a study to evaluate
the impact on production, income, employment, and marketing of a sample of
project subloans, including examination of the problems encountered, the loan
repayment performance, and the need and availability of technical support
from the Ministry of Agriculture (Annex 8). By April 1, 1979, a two-year
contract would be signed by BRI, with the agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
After the two years, BRI would itself carry out most of the evaluation study,
except probably for some of the data analysis. Overall, an eight-year study
is needed because of the long gestation period of the perennial crop subloans;
the project would include the first six years of the study.
Project Cost and Financing
5.16      Total project cost is estimated at US$60 million (Rp 24.9 billion),
of which foreign exchange costs would be US$9.5 million, or 16% of the total.
Project cost by item is as follows:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total   %
--- (Rp billion) ----       --- (US$ million) ---   FE
Credit
Pepper                        2.4      1.2      3.5       5.7      2.8      8.5    33
Coffee                        0.5      0.2     0.7        1.2      0.4      1.6    23
Cattle breeding               3.2      0.1      3.3       7.8      0.2      8.0     2
Brackish-water fishponds    4.8        0.1      4.9      11.5      0.2    11.7      2
Freshwater fishponds          0.6       -      0.6        1.4       -       1.4     -
Fishing boat motorization   0.1        0.1     0.2        0.2      0.3      0.5    68
Iceplants                     0.1      0.2     0.4        0.3      0.6      0.9    70
Unspecified                   3.0      0.5      3.5        7.2     1.2      8.4    14
Subtotal (1977 prices)   14.6        2.4    17.0       35.3      5.7    41.0    14
Price contingencies
(39%)/a                     5.7     0.9      6.6       13.8      2.2    16.0    14
Subtotal (current
prices)               20.4      3.3    23.7        49.1     7.9    57.0    14
Technical Assistance
Term-lending consultancy    0.2        0.4     0.6        0.6      0.9      1.5    60
Accounting consultancy        0.0      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2      0.3    73
Training                       -       0.1     0.1         -       0.2      0.2   100
Evaluation study              0.2       -      0.2        0.5       -       0.5     -
Subtotal (1977 prices)    0.5       0.6      1.0        1.2      1.3     2.5    54
Price contingencies
(20%)/a                     0.1     0.1      0.2        0.2      0.3     0.5    54
Subtotal (current
prices)                 0.6     0.7      1.3        1.4      1.6     3.0    54
Total (current prices)   21.0        3.9    24.9       50.5      9.5    60.0    16
/a  Based on local cost increases of 10% p.a. and foreign cost increases of
8% p.a.



- 18 -
5.17      Local consultants are expected to be used for the three positions
of agriculturalist and for the evaluation study. Term-lending consultancy
costs would average US$6,700 (1977 prices) per man-month for expatriates,
of which about 75% would be foreign exchange, and US$3,300 for Indonesians.
Accounting consultant costs would be US$9,200 per man-month.
5.18      The IDA credit would finance 50% of total project cost, including
US$20.5 million of local cost (34% of total project cost). The local cost
financing would enable the Association to provide more support to the Govern-
ment's overall development effort, particularly in raising agricultural
production. The credit would be made to Government, which would onlend it to
BRI at a rate of 3% p.a., with BRI's repayment of the subloan component tied
to the repayment schedules of the subloans, and the technical assistance
component to be repaid over 20 years, including 4 years' grace. BRI would put
up 20% of the subloan finance, and the remainder would come from BI, also at
3% p.a. The proposed financing plan is as follows (in current prices):
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Share
--- (Rp billion) ----    --- (US$ million) ---
Credit
IDA                      7.9       3.3    11.2      19.1      7.9      27.0    47%
BI                       5.3        -       5.3      12.7      -       12.7    22%
BRI                      4.1        -       4.1       9.9      -        9.9    17%
Subborrowers             3.1        -       3.1      7.4       -        7.4    13%/a
Subtotal              20.4       3.3    23.7      49.1      7.9     57.0   100%
Technical Assistance
IDA                      0.6       0.7      1.3       1.4     1.6       3.0   100%
Total Project
IDA                      8.5       3.9    12.5      20.5      9.5      30.0    50%
BI                        5.3       -       5.3      12.7      -       12.7    21%
BRI                      4.1        -       4.1       9.9      -        9.9    17%
Subborrowers             3.1        -       3.1      9.4       -        7.4    12%
Total                 21.0       3.9    24.9      50.5      9.5      60.0   100%
/a  This could be made either in kind, with family labor, or in cash, and could
range from 0 to 25% for the various subloan categories, in accordance
with BI's rules and regulations for the KIK program.



- 19 -
Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.19      The terms and conditions, policies and procedures governing KIK/KMKP
lending would generally be adopted for the project. In particular, interest
at 10.5% p.a. would be charged on the investment portion of all subloans, and
12% p.a. on any credit for working capital; in addition, penalty interest of
3% p.a. would be charged on any amounts more than 90 days in arrears. The
applicable KIK/KMKP rules and regulations could in the future be modified by
BI, provided that, in the opinion of the Association, such modification did
not materially and adversely affect the project's objectives or implementation.
BRI would obtain credit insurance with the Indonesian Credit Insurance Agency
(ASKRINDO) for. 75% of the amount of each subloan, upon payment of a one-time
fee probably ranging from about 3.5% to 6% (depending on subloan maturity),
the cost of which would be shared by BRI and BI. Two exceptions from the KIK
rules would be that (a) subloans would be for more than 5 years, up to a
maximum of 15 years, including an appropriate grace period during which
interest may be capitalized and (b) subloan amounts and the net worth and
net current assets of subborrowers may exceed the KIK ceilings, where justified
on a category by category basis.
5.20      Interest Spread for BRI.  BRI would have the same interest spread
under the project (5.8% p.a.) as it receives for KIK lending, so as to
maintain the same financial incentive for BRI to implement the two programs./l
The spread would be reviewed under the SEDP /2 to determine whether it is
adequate to cover BRI's administrative costs and the risk of bad debts. To
retain consistency between the programs, any changes made with respect to
KIK lending would, in consultation with the Association, be applied to project
sublending as well.
Disbursement
5.21      Withdrawal applications would be submitted by BRI, and disbursements
would be made on the following basis: (a) 100% of foreign exchange expend-
itures, and 50% of local expenditures for training; (b) 100% of expenditures
on consultants; and (c) 68% of BI advances to BRI for the credit component,
supported by certificates of expenditure from BRI, certifying the subloan amount
disbursed. The loan-by-loan documentation for the certificates of expenditure
would be retained by BRI and made available for review by the Association.
/1 BRI would obtain 80% of its funds from BI/IDA at 3% p.a. and 20% from
deposits etc. at an average cost of 6.4% p.a., for a weighted average of
3.7% p.a. In addition, the ASKRINDO fee paid by BRI under KIK is equiva-
lent to about 1% p.a., and it is expected that BRI's fee to be negotiated
with ASKRINDO under the project would also be equivalent to about 1% p.a.
With the lending rate 10.5%, the spread would therefore be about 5.8%.
The spread would be slightly larger on the working capital portion of the
subloans; however, this would account for only about 8% of project cost.
/2 SEDP Appraisal, Report No. 1614a-IND of March 6, 1978, paras. 5.04,
5.05.



- 20 -
Applications for withdrawal of funds in respect of (a) and (b) above would be
fully documented in accordance with standard IDA requirements. Retroactive
financing of up to US$300,000 is recommended for advisory services from May 1,
1977. Disbursements are expected to be completed by September 1984.
Procurement
5.22      Given the small size and wide geographic and temporal spread of the
subloans, bulking for the purpose of carrying out competitive bidding would
not be feasible. Procurement would therefore be through regular commercial
channels, with assistance in some cases from the Ministry of Agriculture.
Procurement arrangements for individual subloan categories would be prepared
by BRI as part of its annual lending programs, and reviewed by the Association.
Except where special arrangements were made for specific categories, BRI
would follow BI's directives for KIK/KMKP, which call for, wherever feasible,
(a) borrowers to obtain and submit to the banks three price quotations from
suppliers/contractors, (b) disbursements to be made directly to the supplier/
contractor, and (c) disbursements to be made in tranches, after inspection to
ensure that projects are being carried out properly. Recruitment of term-
lending consultants would take place in accordance with IDA Guidelines,
with a short list of international firms requested to make proposals, with
preference given to proposals including Indonesians.
Accounts and Audit
5.23      BRI would keep separate accounts of its approvals, disbursements,
collections and arrears under the project. These accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and would be
sent to the Association along with the audit report on those accounts and the
general audit report on BRI, with a form and coverage agreed by the Associa-
tion, not later than nine months after the end of BRI's financial year
(January 1 - December 31).
Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
5.24      The draft project monitoring and reporting requirements are shown
in Annex 9. BRI would submit semi-annual and annual progress reports to
the Association. The latter would form the basis of joint annual reviews of
the project by BRI, BI and IDA, at which, inter alia, the annual lending
program for the forthcoming year would be agreed upon. In addition, each
participating branch would maintain up-to-date files, maps and financial
summaries of its project subloans, available for review by the Association.
Project Execution Schedule
5.25      Technical assistance expenditures for the consultants on accounting
have been incurred since May 1, 1977. Terms of reference and a short list
for the term-lending consultants have been agreed upon between the Association
and BRI, and BRI is expected to send out the proposals around June 1, 1978.
The first term-lending consultants are expected to be in the field by January



- 21 -
1979, and project sublending to begin around April, 1979,/1 after the first
annual lending program has been agreed, special training has been given to
the concerned BRI staff, and provision has been made in the Ministry of
Agricultire budget for the additional technical support required by sub-
borrowers. The anticipated IDA credit disbursement schedule is given in
Annex 11, and the action program for project implementation in Annex 12.
6. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Production
6.01      The anticipated incremental annual output at full production from
project subloans, from the identified categories, would be about $15.1 mil-
lion of exports and $9.4 million of domestically-traded goods, as follows
(1977 prices):
/1 Lending for brackish-water fishponds under the project, as a continuation
of similar lending under the Fisheries Credit Project, could begin
earlier once the designated funds under the latter were fully committed.



- 22 -
Unit price            Total value /a
Quantity         Rp        US$       Rp million  US$'000
Exports
White pepper         4,800 tons       640/kg   1.54/kg         3,070       7,390
Black pepper         2,400 tons       420/kg   1.01/kg         1,010       2,420
Coffee               1,875 tons       400/kg   0.96/kg           750       1,800
Shrimp                 720 tons    2,000/kg   4.82/kg          1,440       3,470
Subtotal                                                     6.270      152080
Domestically-Traded Goods
Milkfish             8,900 tons       400/kg   0.96/kg         3,560       8,540
Other brackish-
water fish/b    (-2,000 tons)       300/kg   0.72/kg         (-660)   (-1,590)
Freshwater fish/c   1,200 tons        300/kg   0.72/kg           510       1,230
Seafish                825 tons       160/kg   0.39/kg           130         320
Ice                 15,000 tons    8,000/ton 19.28/ton           120         290
Cattle               3,750 head   70,000 @       169 @           260         630
Subtotal                                                     3,920       9,420
Unspecified categories                                           2,610       6,300
Total                                                       12,800      30,800
/a  Farmgate prices.
/b  Some of the increase in milkfish production would be at the expense of
other species.
/c  Average price would increase from Rp 250/kg to Rp 300/kg, due to produc-
tion of higher value fish.
Marketing
6.02      Existing private marketing channels would be adequate to handle the
incremental exports of pepper, coffee and shrimp. The cattle would be for
local use, or shipped (from South Sulawesi) to other islands, primarily as
draft animals. They would be sold at around the age of two, either to other
farmers or to local traders. The fish would all be consumed locally. Con-
siderable improvement in the fish marketing system appears necessary. Three
programs being undertaken in this regard are an ADB-financed fisheries
marketing project, a Government program of infrastructure construction at



- 23 -
fishing harbors, and the credit for small ice plants under the Fisheries
Credit Project and this project. Ice from ice plants financed under the
project would be sold locally to both fishermen and other consumers.
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project would directly increase the incomes of some 40,000
small farmers and fishermen, most of whom are expected to be quite poor.
BRI, with assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, would make special
eforts to ensure that the coverage of poorer farmers increases over time.
The estimated incremental income to subborrowers for different subloan
categories is shown in the cash flows in Annex 4.
7.02      Permanent incremental employment resulting from the project (identi-
fied categories only) would be about 5,000 jobs; some 60-70% of these would
probably be for family labor, and the rest hired. About 35,000 man-years
construction work would be required, primarily for the fishponds; hired labor
would generally be used.
7.03      The perennial crop categories (pepper, coffee) are important chiefly
for foreign exchange earnings.
7.04      The cattle breeding category is important for reducing Indonesia's
growing shortage of draft animals. The program would:
(a) expand the market for breeding cows, which is presently limited
by the shortage of funds, and thereby reduce the (illegal) slaughter
of these animals;
(b) increase the calving rate from 35-40% to 50% by (i) moving the
cattle away from overstocked areas, (ii) providing funds for proper
cattle sheds, veterinary supplies and supplementary feed, and (iii)
ensuring that bull units as well as artificial insemination are
available in the project areas; and
(c) move some of the cattle to areas where they are needed for draft
and manure in integrated rice farming operations.
7.05      The fisheries categories are important primarily for increasing the
domestic supply of fish, Indonesia's chief source of animal protein. Total
annual fisheries production/consumption is only about 11 kg/capita, compared
with the long-term target, on nutritional grounds, of 30 kg/capita (the level
in the Philippines and Malaysia). Improvement of existing fishponds is in
general a much more cost-effective means of increasing production than
construction of new ponds. Pond deepening and dike and gate construction
would be important sources of employment. Boat motorization would enable



- 24 -
the fishermen to tap the fish resources farther out than is reachable by
sailboat. In addition, motorized boats could operate about 200 days/year,
compared to 150 days/year for sailboats which need favorable winds. More
working days and larger catches would increase the incomes of the boat crews,
comprising largely of poor, landless people. The ice is important for
reducing spoilage of fish, and for enabling more to be sold fresh, at higher
prices than dried or salted fish.
7.06      As described earlier, the project would strengthen BRI's term-
lending capability at the head, regional and branch office levels, in both
planning and implementation, and would, in particular, improve BRI's ability
to carry out the KIK/KMKP program efficaciously. It would also further
improve BRI's accounting and management information systems.
7.07      The projected financial and economic returns on the various subloan
categories are as follows:
Percentage of
Rates of return       total identified
Financial   Economic            lending
_______(%)        _______
1.  Pepper - Bangka                       15           14                19.9
2.  Pepper - Lampung                      13           12                 6.1
3.  Coffee                               18             14                4.9
4.  Cattle breeding                      21            24                24.5
5.  Brackish-water fishponds -
monoculture                        33            34               23.9
6.  Brackish-water fishponds -
mixed culture                      40            43               12.0
7.  Freshwater fishponds                 45            53                 4.3
8.  Fishing boat motorization            30            28                 1.5
9.  Ice plants                           22            20                 2.8
Weighted average                  25            27              100
The calculations, financial and economic, are explained in Annexes 4 and 5,
respectively.
Risks
7.08      The main risk is that BRI might not be able to implement the
project properly, in view of BRI's staffing constraints, lack of consistency
in credit procedure, and inadequate internal controls, coupled with the wide
range of its other programs, and hence, the possibility that BRI would thus be
further overloaded and weakened.  To reduce the likelihood and potential
impact of this risk, the project stresses the institutional development of
BRI, through consultancy, staff recruitment, training, and the establishment



- 25 -
of special term-lending units. As an additional protection, branches' collec-
tions performance under the project would be closely monitored. The steps
BRI has taken in a number of areas over the past year also provide grounds
for optimism.
7.09      An additional risk is that some of the Ministry of Agriculture's
local units would not be capable of providing adequate technical support to
subborrowers, yet would pressure BRI to approve subloans. This has already
happened with some KIK/KMKP "massal" programs, resulting among other things,
in poor collections. BRI's management would therefore have to review very
closely the technical support available to each activity when drawing up
its annual lending programs under the project, and hence close coordination
between BRI and the Ministry of Agriculture would be essential. BI might
play a significant role here in assisting BRI. Should either BRI or the
Ministry of Agriculture prove unable to handle adequately the projected
rate of lending, the rate of project lending would be adjusted downwards,
and the commitment period for project subloans increased accordingly.
Environmental Effects
7.10      The overall environmental impact of the project would be limited,
because in most cases land use would not be changed. Some limited water
pollution would result from the use of fertilizer, insecticide and fungicide
for the perennial crops. The fertilizer that got washed away would, on
balance, probably be environmentally beneficial, as it would stimulate marine
life. The insecticides and fungicides, while quite toxic, would not cause
serious problems as they would be sprayed directly on the trees, in limited
quantities. On the positive side, both the fresh- and brackish-water fishponds
would be excellent for recycling organic waste, either as fertilizer to help
algae grow (as food for the fish), or as direct fish food.
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, the organization and staffing of the Program
Development Department of the Planning Bureau, the Project Aid Department of
the Investment Credit Bureau, and the term-lending units of the participating
regional offices of BRI were reviewed and agreed upon (para. 5.11).
8.02      During negotiations, BRI and the Association agreed that project
sublending would be subject to the rules and regulations of the KIK program,
except for maturity and grace periods, and the possibility of subloans
exceeding the KIK ceiling for specified subloan categories; the KIK rules and
regulations could in the future be modified by BI, provided that, in the
opinion of the Association, such modification did not materially and adversely
affect the project's objectives or implementation (para. 5.19).



- 26 -
8.03      During negotiations, BRI agreed to:
(a) appoint at least six of the term-lending consultants by
January 1, 1979, with the agreement of the Association, and
the remaining consultants by April 1, 1979 (para. 5.13);
(b) contract out the two-year first phase of the evaluation study
by April 1, 1979, with the agreement of the Association
(para. 5.15);
(c) retain loan-by-loan documentation, available for review by
IDA missions, for its certificates of expenditure against which
IDA disbursements would be made (para. 5.21);
(d) submit to the Association its audited project accounts, together
with the audit report on those accounts, and its general audit
report, with a form and coverage agreed with the Association,
within nine months of the end of BRI's financial year, (para.
5.23); and
(e) submit its first annual lending program, covering the period
April 1979 - March 1980, to the Association by February 1, 1979;
the aggregate ceiling, provincial coverage and technical support
arrangements would be subject to the Association's approval
(para 5.04).
8.04      During negotiations, Government and BRI agreed that an auditing
expert would be sent by the Association, with terms of reference mutually
acceptable to BRI, DAN and the Association, to discuss the scope and detail of
the general audit of BRI (para 4.15).
8.05      During negotiations, Government gave assurances that:
(a) it would strengthen the PMUs and extension services of the Direc-
torates General of Estate Crops, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries in
its Ministry of Agriculture located in the project area to provide
adequate extension and other supporting services to project
subborrowers (para. 5.04); and
(b) any changes made in the financial arrangements for KIK would, in
consultation with the Association, be applied to project sublending
as well (para. 5.20).
8.06      Subject to the above, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$30.0 million on standard terms.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Background
1.        Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the main institutional source of rural
credit in Indonesia, has undergone numerous changes since its establishment in
1896. In 1965, the Central Bank and all state-owned commercial and savings
banks were merged into one institution, Bank Negara Indonesia (BNI), and BRI
was integrated into BNI Unit II. This experiment in conglomerate banking
lasted only three years, however, and in 1968 BNI was divided into the
Central Bank (Bank Indonesia - BI) and seven state banks: five commercial
banks, a savings bank and a development bank. BNI Unit II was split into
BRI, with concentration on credit for agriculture, fisheries, cooperatives
and rural development, and Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia, specializing in loans
for the production, processing and marketing of export products. The three
other commercial banks formed were Bank Bumi Daya, specializing in estate
agriculture and forestry, Bank Negara Indonesia 1946, specializing in industry,
and Bank Dagang Negara, specializing in commerce and mining. This specializa-
tion by sector, however, is not binding and a certain degree of competition
takes place among the state commercial banks. BRI in its present form was
created by Republic of Indonesia Law No. 21 of December 18, 1968.
Main Functions
2.        BRI's main functions are to:
(a) perform general commercial banking operations, including short- and
medium-term lending, primarily for the benefit of farmers, fishermen,
small-scale industries, traders and other entrepreneurs;
(b) assist the Government in implementing its agricultural policies
and conducting rural development programs, primarily by administering
credit and subsidy funds provided by the Government for designated
rural development purposes; and
(c) supervise secondary rural banks in accordance with BI directives.
Management
3.        BRI's Management Board consists of the President-Director and up to
four Managing Directors, all appointed by the Government for five-year
(renewable) terms. The Management Board, operating by consensus, establishes
bank policy and makes decisions on all important operational and administra-
tive matters. Control over the Management Board is the responsibility of a



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Government-appointed Board of Supervisors, presently composed of two senior
officials from the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) and one from the
Ministry of Finance. BI, through its Banking Supervision Department, also
monitors BRI's operations and its observance of banking regulations.
4.        The current President-Director has, since his appointment in August
1973, maintained firm control over BRI's day-to-day operations, and overseen
a number of efforts at improving BRI's operational efficiency. Three of the
present four Managing Directors were appointed only recently, in late 1976
and early 1977. However, like the President-Director, all have risen from
the ranks of BRI and are fully familiar with its diverse operations. The
President-Director heads the Board and coordinates the work of its members.
Each Managing Director has general administrative responsibility for three or
four Bureaus and carries out other specific assignments from time to time.
Organization
5.        BRI operates on a decentralized branch-banking basis with a head
office in Jakarta, 13 regional offices, 267 branches, 63 sub-branches, 3,270
village units, and 113 mobile units scattered throughout Indonesia. The head
office performs essentially planning and control functions, along with
general administration, limiting its direct operational involvement to
evaluation of loans which exceed the commitment authority of regional
offices (usually Rp 10 million). Regional offices act as extensions of the
head office in supervising and coordinating branch activities. Branches are
BRI's main organizational units; they carry out most of the lending and are
primarily responsible for deposits and savings mobilization. Village and
mobile units operate as appendages to branches, primarily for the BIMAS
program.
6.        To keep pace with the rapid expansion of its operations, BRI has had
to increase its branch and subunit network as follows:
BRI's Branch Network - Recent Growth
Date             Branches    Sub-branches   Village units    Mobile units
December 1972            219            86             1,298              516
December 1973            220            78             2,121              424
December 1974            221            88             2,574              420
December 1975            260           103             2,981              295
December 1976            266           129             3,113              310
December 1977            267            63             3,270              113
BRI is near its objectives of having at least one branch office in each of
Indonesia's 270 districts ("kabupatens"), except in West Irian.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Concomitant with the expansion of its field organization, BRI in
1973 reorganized its head office following the recommendations of consultants
hired under the ADB-financed BRI Modernization Project. The basic objective
of this reorganization was to (i) expedite information collection and analysis,
(ii) delegate and decentralize decision-making authority, and (iii) achieve a
clearer delineation of responsibilities among various organizational units.
Specifically, the reorganization led to the establishment of:
(a) four main Divisions to supervise the activities of 11 of the head
office's 13 Bureaus. This was to relieve the Managing Directors
of their direct supervisory responsibility over these Bureaus,
hopefully allowing them to concentrate on broad policy issues
rather than day-to-day operational matters;
(b) three new Bureaus, under the Administration and Organization
Division, to improve operational procedures, planning and control.
The Organization and Methods Bureau was to streamline procedures
and issue clear operational instructions; the Management Control
Bureau, to provide the Board with regular and timely reports on
operations and costs; and the Planning Bureau, to take charge of
operational and cost planning, budget preparation and variance
analysis;
(c) a separate internal auditing organization under the Supervision
Division reporting directly to the Board, with field offices
independent from BRI's regional offices;
(d) a special branch reporting directly to the Board, to take over
the branch operations performed at head office; and
(e) positions of planning and/or systems and procedures officers in
most of the Bureaus.
8.        BRI's new head office organizational structure (chart 17849) became
effective in January 1974. While a move in the right direction, it proved
only moderately successful in decentralizing management authority. The then
three Managing Directors continued to supervise very closely the Bureaus
which had been their responsibility prior to the reorganization, thus depriving
the newly established Divisions of much of their raison d'etre. This was recog-
nized by BRI, and in early 1977, when supervisory duties were reallocated
among Managing Directors, the Divisional tier was eliminated.
9.        Regional offices (chart 17385) are typically composed of four
departments: (a) the Credit Department, itself often subdivided into short-
and medium-term lending sections, which supervises loans approved by the
branches, approves loans within the commitment authority of the regional
office, and comments on loans being forwarded to the head office for approval;
(b) the Finance Department, which manages the allocation and transfer of



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
funds between branches and head office; (c) the Accounting Department, in
charge of bookkeeping and internal reporting; and (d) the General/Personnel
Department, which takes care of administration and personnel. With the
establishment of separate District Audit offices, the internal audit function
of the regional offices is gradually disappearing.
10.       Branch offices also have been reorganized in recent years, with
equal emphasis being given to their credit and general banking activities
(Chart 17387). Credit evaluation and supervision along with secondary
banks control are the responsibility of a credit officer; deposits, savings,
funds management, bookkeeping, reporting, and general administration, that
of an operations officer. Sub-branches are essentially branch tellers per-
forming cashier functions at a fixed location different from that of the
branch itself. Village units ("unit desa") extend certain branch activities -
savings mobilization, short-term BIMAS and non-BIMAS lending, mini-investment
financing - to the village level. Presently operating as subunits of branches,
village units are gradually evolving into village banks, providing an increas-
ingly wide range of banking services to rural communities.
Organization for Term-Lending
11.       Functional responsibility for BRI's term-lending operations rests
with the three departments of the Investment Credit Bureau. The Appraisal
and Supervision Department evaluates and supervises loans granted under the
KIB program. This is the only section carrying out appraisal work, since
most loan aplications for KIB exceed the Rp 10 million authorization limit of
regional offices. The KIK/KMKP Department supervises and monitors branch and
regional offices lending under the KIK/KMKP program. The third department,
Project Aid, implements and monitors lending programs involving bilateral or
multilateral aid organizations.
12.       Organizational arranagements for handling term-lending in the field
vary with branch and regional office size. In the typical pattern a branch
would have one or two officers handling primarily term lending, and a
regional office, around 3-5, iworking within larger units. The commitment
authority of branch managers ranges from Rp 2 million to Rp 5 million per
loan.
Staffing and Training
13.       Staffing.  As of December 31, 1977, BRI had 22,600 employees, of
whom approximately 11,400 were in village units. Not including the Jakarta
special branch, the head office had around 1,000 employees. Over 70% of the
staff had senior high school education, and 2% had university degrees. In
1976, the average monthly gross salary and benefits of a loan officer (the
bottom professional level) was Rp 67,000 (US$160), which was higher than the
average income of a medium-ranking civil servant, but less than what other
state commercial banks paid for staff in comparable positions. This explains
in part the difficulties BRI had in recruiting suitably qualified personnel
for the branches and village tnits it was opening so rapidly in 1973-76.
Over this period, BRI's staff increased by 70%, despite a 200 person reduction
in head office personnel due to reorganization.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
14.       Because of its low salary scale, BRI, until 1977, had been limited
to recruiting fresh graduates for low-echelon positions, which placed a heavy
burden on its training programs. Middle and senior-level positions were
generally filled by promotion from within. This, plus the fact that promotion
was primarily to managerial positions, made it difficult for BRI to obtain
adequate technical staff (especially in accounting and computer processing).
Realizing the need to review and modify its staff compensation and promotion
policies, to attract suitably qualified and experienced personnel, BRI
initiated, along with other state-owned commercial banks, studies of its
overall salary and benefit structure. While these studies are still underway,
interim results have led to a revised pension scheme for all personnel,
improved compensation arrangements for village unit staff, and a separate
grade system for technical personnel allowing promotion along specialty
lines. This last measure enables BRI to hire from the outside any senior
specialist staff it may require.
15.       Training.  In addition to sending some of its more promising officers
to the Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia (LPPI), a school
of banking owned by BI and the state banks and formerly assisted by the IMF,
BRI has its own banking school and conducts training programs in both Jakarta
and the provinces for all levels of staff. Over the last few years, BRI has
devoted considerable efforts to staff training, primarily to meet the staffing
needs of new branches and village units. Further progress is required if
staff capabilities are to be commensurate with levels of responsibility,
particularly for term-credit. BRI recognizes this need and has asked the
Association for assistance in reviewing and redesigning its training programs,
especially as regards term-lending.
Policies and Procedures
16.       Operating Policies.  With the exception of its Charter, which
provides broad policy directions and stipulates certain limits (such as the
size of the capital and general reserves), BRI, until 1975, had no detailed
Policy Statement to guide its operations. As a result, it undertook some
activities (such as the financing of hotel construction) somewhat outside
the scope of its regular operations. At BI's initiative, the Government and
BRI reviewed the nature of BRI's operations and decided that it should
concentrate on the financing of agriculture and rural development. This was
reflected, along with other operational and financial guidelines, in the
Policy Statement adopted by BRI's Board in April 1975. The guidelines
established therein are, from time to time, augmented by specific Board
resolutions which establish precedents when individual projects or particular
lending programs are approved.
17.       Credit Procedures.  Due to its large size and rapid growth, BRI has
found it difficult to ensure that credit procedures are applied uniformly
throughout its organization. This point was highlighted by the Banking Study
Team, which carried out an in-depth evaluation of BRI's credit procedures and



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
accounting system, as part of a BI program to upgrade the operating procedures
of all the state commercial banks. Reports prepared by this team stressed
the absence of detailed procedures manuals as a main reason for inter-branch
variations in BRI's credit procedures; they also identified shortcomings in
appraisal, supervision and accounting practices. The Team's recommendations
are being generally implemented by BRI's management. In particular, task
forces have written detailed procedures manuals for various credit programs,
which are being distributed to all BRI branches.
18.       Term-Lending Procedures.  BRI's term-lending operations for small
loans use simplified credit-investigation procedures that rely as much on the
borrowers' character and collateral as on project viability. Such an approach
to project appraisal is justifiable given the small size of individual loans,
the limited education and training of loan officers, the absence of subsectoral
analysis upon which to base estimates of project viability, and the difficulties
in obtaining information on clients' operations. However, to remedy some of
the inherent difficulties of smallholder term-financing, BRI is gradually
shifting from general ("umum") lending, where all loans are made purely on a
case-by-case basis, to special ("khusus") or mass ("massal") lending, for
which separate credit programs are developed by type of activity or subsector
before credits are made on either an individual or group basis. The "massal"
approach allows extensive subsectoral analysis to be done prior to commencing
lending operations, permits advisory and other supporting services to be pro-
vided more efficiently to smal:L borrowers, and reduces BRI's administrative
costs (in comparison with that of equally small loans provided on a case-by-
case basis). The establishment of a Program Development Department (PDD)
within the Planning Bureau follows naturally from BRI's increasing use of
this new approach. Under this approach, identification, formulation and
implementation of specific lending programs will be the result of colla-
borative efforts between BRI and the Government technical agencies concerned.
19.       A major shortcoming in BRI's present term-lending operations is
inadequate supervision. While practices vary from branch to branch, loan
officers seldom keep track of their clients on a regular basis; most often
they only start to look into client performance when arrears develop. BRI's
management has been taking steps to strengthen follow-up. Apart from
increasing term-lending staff and requiring that more time be spent on
supervision, BRI has incorporated systematic follow-up procedures into its
term-credit procedures manuals.
20.       Procurement and Disbursement.  BRI's procedures for procurement and
disbursement under term loans have recently been tightened up. Previously,
and in the absence of specific guidelines from head office, branches were
often left to determine their own policies on these matters. This led to
widely varying practices, particularly for credits granted under the "general
lending" approach, but also for some "massal" type lending, although control
was better there, since such credits are often granted on a "package" basis,



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
with loans made mostly in kind. Presently, BRI's procurement and disbursement
procedures for term-loans follow essentially the KIK/KMKP procedures which
call for, wherever feasible, (a) borrowers to obtain and submit to the
banks three price quotations from suppliers/contractors, (b) disbursements
to be made directly to the supplier/contractor, and (c) disbursements
to be made in tranches, after inspection to ensure that projects are being
carried out properly. In addition, a senior development banker to be
attached to BRI's Investment Credit Bureau will examine all BRI term-lending
procurement and disbursement procedures and recommend further improvements as
necessary.
21.       Accounting and Management Information.  Under the ADB-financed
BRI Modernization Project, a new accounting system built around the use of
electro-mechanical accounting machines, was introduced in BRI's Java branches.
Concomitantly, to achieve consistency, a new manual accounting system was to
be developed and introduced in all nonmechanized branches. As the latter
part of the project was not carried out fully, there was considerable confusion
and delay in the preparation of financial reports, since BRI was using two
different charts of accounts which could not be reconciled satisfactorily.
BRI then hired two consultants from the firm of Price Waterhouse to review
its accounting system and propose corrective action. These consultants have
completed the design of a new manual accounting system and proposed a redeploy-
ment of the accounting machines; they have also redesigned and streamlined
BRI's management information system, and are now overseeing its implementation.
Lending Operations
22.       BRI's lending operations (Table 1) grew very rapidly during the
first half of the 1970s, but leveled off in 1976. Disbursements, which had
risen from Rp 131.1 billion in 1971 to Rp 991.0 billion (about US$2.4 billion)
in 1975, dropped by 14% to Rp 855.7 billion in 1976, essentially as a result
of tighter BI ceilings on general commercial ("non-program") credit. Lending
under most government programs ("program lending"), on the other hand, increased
due to generous credit expansion allowances from BI, but this was offset by
the decline in fertilizer import financing. Program lending, which accounted
for around 60% of BRI's outstanding portfolio at year-end 1973, had grown to
over 77% by end 1976. Finance for fertilizer import and distribution accounted
for 36% of the outstanding portfolio (Table 2), followed by short-term agricul-
tural lending (27%), short-term lending to industry, trade and services
(primarily agro-industries and dealers and traders in farm products) (19%),
term-lending (16%) and personal and other loans (2%).
23.       Term-Lending Operations.  Although short-term lending still accounted
for 95% of total disbursements in 1976, medium- and long-term lending has been
gradually assuming greater importance (Table 3). Until the end of 1973, BRI's
term-lending operations had been limited to medium-term (up to five years)
general investment (KIB) loans, averaging some Rp 10.6 million each. In early



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
1974, two new programs - KIK and KMKP - were established to address the
medium-term credit needs of small entrepreneurs, with loans of up to Rp 5 mil-
lion for both investment and permanent working capital. This was followed,
in April 1974, by the mini-credit scheme of Rp 10,000-100.,000 loans made by
BRI's village units for investment and working capital. In 1974, BRI
also began long-term lending operations (beyond five years) through the
Bank Group-financed Fisheries Credit and Smallholder and Private Estate Tea
Projects (480-IND and 400-IND), and the ADB-financed East Java Agricultural
Credit Project. Term-lending increased from Rp 4.3 billion in 1973, to Rp
45.8 billion (5% of total disbursements) in 1976, and accounted for 17% of
the total 1976 year-end portfolio. The KIK/KMKP program accounted for 62% of
1976 term-lending disbursements, Mini-credits for 26%, KIB for 8% and
long-term lending for 4%.
24.       Other Operations.  BRI also administers subsidy funds provided by
the Government for specific rural development purposes. For FY76/77, BRI was
entrusted to channel Rp 146 billion under the village public works (INPRES)
program. As of December 31, 1976, BRI also had loans of about Rp 2.5 billion
outstanding in various village and paddy banks.
Financial Performance
25.       BRI's net income reached a peak of Rp 5.5 billion in 1974, but
dropped to Rp 3.3 billion in 1975, Rp 1.0 billion in 1976, and Rp 0.8 billion
in 1977 (Table 4). The two main reasons for this trend are (a) BRI's expanded
lending under programs (e.g. BIMAS, KIK/KMKP) with high administrative costs
and low interest rates, and the decline of BRI's two large profitable opera-
tions, fertilizer import financing and commercial non-program lending, and
(b) the rise in interest costs as a percentage of total debt, from 3.2% in
1974 to 6.3% in 1977, caused by the increasing proportion of time and savings
deposits in BRI's total debt. Superimposed on this trend is BRI's poor collec-
tions performance on loan interest, which is shown by the 12% p.a. yield on
average loans outstanding in 1977, when the average lending rate was 16%
p.a.
Financial Position
26.       At year-end 1977, BRI's total assets stood at Rp 665 billion
(US$1.6 billion), having doubled in both 1973 and 1974, and subsequently
increased by about 15% p.a. in 1975, 1976 and 1977./1 The expansion of BRI's
loan portfolio was financed almost entirely by deposits and by borrowings
from BI. The structure of BRI's assets and liabilities is summarized in
Table 5. BRI's financial statements depart from generally accepted accounting
principles in that (a) they use a modified cash rather than an accrual basis,
/1 In real terms, this was an increase of 73% in 1973, 67% in 1974, a
decrease of 5% in 1975 and an increase of 1% in 1976 and 1977.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
and (b) the provisions for doubtful accounts are set on a statutory basis,
and therefore do not necessarily reflect BRI's portfolio condition. Any
judgement of BRI's financial condition must therefore be qualified. Prima
facie, however, this condition appears satisfactory, as does BRI's present
liquidity position and long-term capital structure (long-term debt/equity
1.5:1). BRI's overall capital structure has improved substantially in recent
years; its debt/equity ratio decreased from 40:1 in 1973 to 13:1 in 1977,
primarily as a result of increased Government advances which totalled
Rp 14.7 billion at year-end 1977, and BI frozen liquidity credits amounting
to Rp 25.0 billion which are interest free and have no fixed repayment
schedule./l BRI's present overall capital structure is therefore satisfactory.
27.       Portfolio Quality.  Despite BRI's good performance in reducing loan
arrears in 1977, overdue accounts remain BRI's main financial problem. The
actual arrears situation, however, cannot be established with certainty,
since BRI's internal reporting system (a) does not record all loans in
arrears, (b) treats program and nonprogram loans differently, and (c)
provides only limited information on age classification of arrears. From
available statistics, it appears that 23% of BRI's total portfolio (including
BIMAS) was in arrears as of December 31, 1977, with principal overdue amount-
ing to Rp 105 billion (US$253 million) (Tables 7 and 8). Excluding BIMAS,
the highest levels of program lending arrears were on loans to cooperatives
under the rice procurement and KIK programs (24% of the outstanding), and on
KIB loans (13.2%).  General commercial lending to agriculture, livestock and
fisheries had arrears ranging from 14% to 25% of the outstanding portfolio,
and to industry, trade and services, around 20%. During 1977, BRI's arrears
situation improved, as the following table indicates:
BRI's Arrears Position as of December 31, 1976 and 1977
1976                          1977
Commercial  Program  Total   Commercial  Program  Total
loans      loans   loans       loans      loans   loans
No. of accounts in
arrears as % of
total no. of accounts   34.8         40.3    40.0       15.7       46.1    44.7
Amount in arrears as
% of principal
outstanding              42.1        16.2    25.0       23.4       22.3    22.7
/1  These frozen liquidity credits are actually shown as reserves in BRI's
balance sheet.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10
The decrease in overall arrearages was due to the reduction in commercial
loan arrears which resulted from BRI's vigorous collections campaign in 1977.
During the year, around Rp 12 billion was collected on overdue accounts.
28.       BRI's arrears problem is largely structural, traceable to the
complexities of smallholder financing and the difficulties of operating in an
environment more favorable to borrowers than creditors. BRI has started
taking measures to deal with its arrears problem: procedures for follow-up
and handling of overdue accounts are being instituted (para. 19), investiga-
tions of particular lending programs conducted, and new guidelines issued to
the branches. Furthermore, in 1977, BRI established a three-year program to
reduce loan arrears for all lending categories except BIMAS, rice procurement
and fertilizer./l The objective is to bring down arrears on such accounts to
12% of outstanding loans by year-end 1979, either through improved collections,
restructuring of accounts or submission to litigation. As noted in para. 27,
BRI has made a good start in implementing this program.
29.       Provisions for Doubtful Accounts.  As of December 31, 1977, BRI's
reserves and retained earnings totalled Rp 42.0 billion of which Rp 11.2 bil-
lion (US$27.0 million) represented provisions for doubtful accounts. BRI's
charter calls for the establishment of a general reserve against bad debts,
whose amount is not to exceed the bank's capital (Rp 300 million); in
the absence of any ceiling on the loans-outstanding-to-equity ratio, such a
provision is of limited value. In establishing its provisions for doubtful
accounts, BRI therefore follows tax regulations which allow the build-up of
provisions to the equivalent of 3% of outstanding loans. Given that a
substantial portion of its outstanding portfolio is fully guaranteed, such a
policy has enabled BRI to maintain reserves at a level well in line with that
required by sound banking practices. At year-end 1977, provisions for
doubtful accounts, at Rp 11.2 billion, represented 6.8% of the portfolio on
which BRI carried the full financial risk, and actual arrears on this portfolio
totalled Rp 36 billion.
30.       Audit.  Under its charter, BRI's accounts are audited annually by
the State Accountancy Directorate (DAN), whose reports are presently
prepared in a form and detail which makes it difficult to reach a judgment on
some essential aspects of BRI's financial condition. In particular, the
audit on BRI ought to be gradually expanded to include a review of BRI's
system of internal audit controls and the auditors' recommendations for the
improvement of such controls, an analysis of BRI's loan portfolio and of the
adequacy of reserves for doubtful accounts, and a description of the coverage
/1 These latter categories are partly or fully guaranteed by the Government
or BI.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11
of the audit work performed (type of activity, number of branches visited,
etc.). 'Much of the difficulty appears to come from DAN's staff shortage; a
unit of only three auditors in the head office handles BRI and Bank Ekspor-
Impor Indonesia. The proposed visit to BRI and DAN of an auditing expert to
examine the audit presently carried out should help clarify the nature of the
problem. Discussion of this expert's report between BRI, DAN and the Associa-
tion should lead to the development of a program to achieve improvements in
BRI's audit.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summary of Lending Operations, 1973-76
(in Rp billion)
1973     1974      1975     1976
Disbursements
Short-term loans /a
Program                                       n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
Non-program                                   n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
Subtotal                                381.8    659.4    958.5    809.9
Medium-term loans /b                            4.3      21.7     31.8      43.8
Long-term loans /c                               -        0.3      0.7       2.0
Total disbursements                     386.1    681.4    991.0    855.7
Outstanding at year-end
Short-term loans /a
Program                                      73.4    139.1    222.3    256.8
Non-program                                  56.0     67.8      77.4      96.6
Subtotal                                129.4    206.9    299.7    353.4
Medium-term loans /b                           10.0      26.6     43.6      69.9
Long-term loans /c                               -        0.3      1.0       3.0
Total outstanding                       139.4    233.8    344.3    426.3
/a Less than 1 year maturity.
/b 1-5 years maturity (KIB, KIK/KMKP and Mini-credit).
/c 5 years and above (IBRD- and ADB-financed projects).
Source: BRI



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summary of Short-Term Lending Operations, 1973-76
(in Rp billion)
1973      1974       1975       1976
Disbursements
Short-term program loans
BIMAS paddy                                 32.1      48.0       69.3       83.1
BIMAS secondary crops                        0.1       4.9        8.6        9.0
Fertilizer import and distribution          25.4      93.3      116.0       81.8
Rice procurement/cooperatives               n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Other short-term credit programs           n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Subtotal                                n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
General commercial loans                      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Total disbursements                    381.8      659.4      958.5     809.9
Outstanding at year-end
Short-term program loans
BIMAS paddy                                 28.9      41.1       64.1       73.9
BIMAS secondary crops                        0.1       3.2        5.7       11.8
Fertilizer import and distribution          36.2      86.3      147.6      150.1
Rice procurement/cooperatives                5.6       6.2       13.9       17.8
Other short-term credit programs             2.6       2.3        2.6        3.2
Subtotal                                73.4      139.1      222.3     256.8
General commercial loans                      56.0       67.8      77.4       96.6
Total outstanding                      129.4      206.9      299.7     353.4
n.a. - not available.
Source: BRI.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summary of Term-Lending Operations, 1973-76
(in Rp billion)
1973     1974      1975      1976
Disbursements
General investment loans (KIB)/a                 4.3       4.5       5.0       3.7
Small credits
Investment (KIK)                                -       7.4       7.8      12.0
Working capital (KMKP)                          -        7.5      11.9     16.2
Subtotal                                  -       14.9      19.7      28.2
Mini-credits
Investment                                      -       0.3       0.7       2.1
Working capital                                 -        2.0      6.4       9.8
Subtotal                                  -        2.3       7.1      11.9
Project aid loans                                 -        0.3       0.7      2.0
Total disbursements                      4.3      22.0      32.5      45.8
Outstanding at year-end
General investment loans (KIB)/a                10.0      11.5      11.8      14.8
Small credits
Investment (KIK)                                -       6.2      12.1      20.6
Working capital (KMKP)                          -        7.3      15.2     27.3
Subtotal                                  -       13.5      27.3      47.9
Mini-credits
Investment                                      -       0.3       0.9       1.4
Working capital                                 -        1.3       3.6      5.8
Subtotal                                  -        1.6       4.5       7.2
Project aid loans                                 -        0.3       1.0       3.0
Total outstanding                       10.0      26.9      44.6      72.9
/a Includes small investment credits granted before the establishment of KIK.
Source: BRI



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summarized Income Statements,
1972-1976 (audited) and 1977 (unaudited)
(in Rp billion)
1972     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977
INCOME
Interest on loans                    11.1      12.8     23.5      33.2     44.0      54.0
Commissions                           0.7       1.2      1.9       3.3       2.4      2.5
Income on foreign exchange
transactions                        0.4      0.9       2.4       4.9      0.5       0.5
Other income                          1.5       1.4      2.4       8.1       9.8      8.4/a
Total income                 13.7     16.3      30.2     49.5      56.7      65.4
EXPENSES
Interest on deposits                  4.7       4.4      6.2      13.0     18.8      23.7
Interest on borrowings from
banks (BI)                          1.6       1.4      3.7       9.6     12.0      12.7
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                            3.8       5.1      6.9      10.5     12.6      15.5
Other administrative expenses         1.8       2.1      3.7       5.8       7.7      8.8
Depreciation and amortization         0.4       0.6      2.1       1.5       1.6      1.9
Provision for doubtful accounts       0.3       1.3      1.8       5.1      2.5       1.7
Other expenses                        0.1       0.0      0.3       0.7      0.5       0.3
Total expenses               12.7     14.9      24.7     46.2      55.7     64.6
Net income before taxes                 1.0       1.4       5.5      3.3       1.0      0.8
Provisions for taxes (45%)              0.4       0.6      2.5       1.5       0.5      0.4
Net income after taxes                  0.6       0.8       3.0      1.8       0.5      0.4
/a Not including BIMAS subsidy.
Source: BRI.



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Summarized Balance Sheets,
1972-1976 (audited) and 1977 (unaudited)
(in Rp billion)
As of December 31                               1972    1973    1974    1975    1976         1977
ASSETS
Cash                                            5.1      7.8    10.6    14.5    17.2         19.4
Balance due from banks
Bank Indonesia                               12.1    12.3    38.8    66.5    77.1    114.5
Other banks                                   0.3      3.6      0.2      7.2    15.8       33.5
Notes receivable /a                              -        -       0.1      1.1      3.7       3.2
Foreign exchange receivables                   12.3    22.3   122.2    12.7    21.0          17.3
Loans outstanding                              73.2   139.4   233.8   344.3   428.3    454.4
Less:  provision for doubtful accounts   (1.4)   (2.7)   (4.2)   (8.2)  (10.5)   (11.2)
Property and equipment                          5.3      6.8      8.2    10.1    13.8        16.9
Less:  accumulated depreciation              (1.0)   (1.6)   (3.5)   (5.0)   (6.4)    (8.2)
Other assets                                    2.7      1.6    29.8    17.0    17.0         25.6
Total assets                       108.6   189.5   436.0   460.2   577.0    665.4
LIABILITIES
Deposits
Demand deposits                              38.5    55.0    72.3   135.9   147.1    191.4
Time deposits                                14.9    17.5    27.9    46.5    70.6          91.6
Savings deposits                              4.5      6.7    10.2    16.0    25.1        36.6
Borrowings from banks
Bank Indonesia                               32.5    59.1   121.9   200.7   271.9    254.2
Other banks                                   0.4      1.1      0.4      0.4      1.1       2.2
Foreign exchange liabilities                    7.5    28.9   165.3        9.6      7.4      13.3
Other liabilities                               7.1    16.6    24.5    17.6    19.0          30.2
Subtotal                           105.4   184.9   422.5   426.7   542.2    619.5
Equity
Government participation                       -        -       4.7    23.6    27.6        14.8
Capital                                        -        -        -       0.3      0.3       0.3
Reserves                                      1.4      2.4      2.1      4.4      4.2      30.4
Retained earnings                             1.8      2.2      6.7      5.2      2.7       0.4
Subtotal                             3.2      4.6    13.5    33.5    34.8         45.9
Total liabilities & equity         108.6   189.5   436.0   460.2   577.0    665.4
Debt/equity ratio                              32.9    40.2    31.3    12.7    15.6          13.5
/a Including equity investments.
Source: BRI.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Loans Outstanding and Loans in Arrears by Type of Lending
(in Rp billion)
December 31, 1974                   December 31, 1975                  December 31, 1976                       June 30, 1977
Arrears as                          Arrears as                         Arrears as                           Arrears as
Amount              % of Out-       Amount               % of Out-      Amount              I of Out-        Amount              % of Out-
Outstanding  Arrears  standing   Outstanding  Arrears  standing   Outstanding  Arrears  standing   Outstanding  Arrears  standing
Program Lending
BIMAS                             44.3        10.6       23.9          69.8       18.7       26.8          85.7        40.7       47.5        114.9        37.4        32.6
Fertilizer import and
distribution                   86.3          0.3        0.3         147.6         -          -          150.1          -          -         117.3        10.8        9.2
Rice procurement/cooperatives   6.2            1.4       22.6          13.9        1.8       12.9           17.8        2.9       16.3         20.0         4.7        23.5
Other short-term credit
programs                         2.3         0.2        8.7           2.6        0.4       15.4           8.8           -          -          9.2         0.5         5.4
General investment loans          11.5         2.9       25.2          11.8        2.8       23.7           14.7        2.8       19.0         16.7          2.2       13.2
KIK/KMKP                          13.5         0.3        2.2          27.3        1.8        6.6          47.9         5.0       10.4         63.7         7.0        11.0
Mini-credits /a                    1.6          -          -            4.5        0.2        4.4            7.3        0.7        9.6          8.8          0.9       10.2
Project aid loans /a               0.3          -          -            1.0         -          -            3.0          -          -           3.1          -           -
Dubious loans /b                                                                                             2.5        2.5      100.0          6.8         6.8       100.0
Subtotal                166.0        15.7        9.5         266.9       25.7        9.6          337.8       54.6       16.2        360.5         70.6       19.6
Nonprogram Lending
General commercial loans
for:  Agriculture                4.0         1.1       27.5           3.8        2.0       52.6           3.4         2.8       82.4          2.8         0.4        14.3
Livestock                 0.9         0.2       22.2           0.9        0.3       33.3            0.9        0.3       33.3           1.0         0.2       20.0
Fisheries                 1.3         0.4       30.8            1.4       0.4       28.6            1.2        0.3       25.0          0.8          0.2       25.0
Industry                  9.2         1.9       20.7          10.0        2.0       20.0           11.3        2.2       19.5          8.9          0.8        9.0
Trade                    27.1         3.6       13.3          34.2        4.8        14.0          32.8       10.9       33.2         36.4          4.8       13.2
Services                 11.7         2.0       17.1          12.9        2.5       19.4           17.2        4.1       23.8         18.0          4.9       27.2
Other                      -            -         -            0.2          -         -             5.5        0.5        9.0          13.4         0.7        5.2
Dubious loans                     13.6        13.6      100.0          14.0       14.0      100.0           16.2       16.2      100.0         18.3         18.3      100.0
Subtotal                 67.8        22.8       33.6          77.4       26.0       33.6           88.5       37.3       42.1         99.6         30.3       30.4
Total                   233.8        38.5       16.4         344.3       51.7       15.0          426.3       91.9       21.6        460.1        100.9       21.9
/a  Mini-credits and the foreign-financed component of project aid loans are usually shown separately from other program loans since they
are not subject to the credit ceilings set by Bank Indonesia; however, for the purpose of this table, they have been listed together.
/b Dubious loans, as of year-end 1974 and 1975, are included in the amount shown in arrears.
Source:  BRI.
a% x



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Loans Outstanding
and Loans in Arrears by Sector /a
(In Rp billion)
December 31, 1974                    December 31, 1975                     December 31, 1976                     December 31, 1977
Arrears as                           Arrears as                            Arrears as                            Arrears as
Amount /b              % of out-    Amount /b                Z of out-     Amount /c               % of out-    Amount /c                % of out-
outstanding  Arrears/c  standing   outstanding  Arrears/c  standing    outstanding  Arrears/c  standing   outstanding  Arrears/c  standing
BIMAS  paddy            41.!       10.3       25.1           64.1        17.3        27.0           82.8        32.9        39.7         91.1        46.8        51.4
Other agriculture       10.1        5.0       49.5            22.0        6.7        30.4           31.2        12.2       39.1          31.2        14.6        46.8
Cattle breeding          1.0        0.4       40.0             1.4        0.5        35.7            2.2         0.7        31.8          2.1          0.8       38.1
Fisheries                1.3        0.7       53.8             1.4        0.8        57.1            2.9         1.0       34.5           2.9          1.1       37.3
Industry                10.8        5.0       46.3    -      11.7         5.5        47.0           16.5         5.9       35.7         16.9          6.0        35.5      4
Fertilizer import                                                                                                                                                           I
and distribution      86.3        0.3        0.3          147.6          -           -          149.9        26.8        17.8        107.8          0.4          -
Other trade             31.2        8.2        26.3          35.2        10.5        29.8           50.3        11.6        23.1         69.6        12.7        18.2
Services                30.4        4.7        15.5          31.3         5.5        17.6           53.6         9.7       18.1         75.3         12.0        15.9
Investment /d           17.8        3.1        17.4          24.2         3.7        15.3           38.0         6.8       17.9         49.5          8.6        17.4
Other                    3.8        0.8        21.1            5.4        1.2        22.2            8.6         1.6       18.6          15.9          1.9       11.9
Total             233.8      38.5        16.4          344.3        51.7        15.0         436.0       109.2        25.0        462.3        104.9        22.7
/a Arrears of principal only.
/b Including amounts up to 3 months in arrears, but excluding amounts considered dubious.
/c Including amounts up to 3 months in arrears and amounts considered dubious.
/d General, small and mini investment credit.
Source: BRI - Statistik Perkreditan.
I..x
aJ 



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Loans Outstanding, Loans in
Arrears and Dubious Loans as of December 31, 1976
(Amounts in Rp billion)
Loans up to 3
Loans outstanding /a   months in arrears         Dubious loans
Number      Amount       Number      Amount    Number    Amount
Agriculture                    4,670,914    114.0       1,952,988      39.4      15,693       5.7
BIMAS paddy                 3,960,768       82.8      1,665,315      29.4          81       3.5
BIMAS secondary crops          491,980      10.6        196,987       4.8          14         -
Other rice                     159,440       4.8         67,713       1.2       5,076       0.7
Other secondary crops           24,002       1.0         15,022       0.3       1,597       0.3
Export crops                     2,327       0.8            261       0.1         534       0.2
Village improvements            18,499       1.5          4,695       0.1       5,273       0.5
Domestic procurement             2,831       7.9          1,212       2.5          68         -
Other                           11,067       4.6          1,783       1.0       3,050       0.5
Cattle breeding                    2,734       2.2            654       0.4         460       0.3
Fisheries                          4,241       2.9            871       0.3       2.479       0.7
Industry                           5,009      16.5          2,253       2.2       2,676       3.8
Food and clothing                1,367       5.3            440       0.9         961       1.9
Export products                    118       1.6             35       0.2          81       0.1
Handicrafts                      1,708       3.8            587       0.6       1;168       1.0
Other                            1,816       5.8          1,191       0.5         466       0.8
Trade                             46,252    200.2          13,866      32.3      13,468       6.1
Food and clothing               10,945       7.8          2,881       0.9       5,430       1.5
Nine main commodities            4,130       4.1          1,198       0.5       1,474       0.7
Rice procurement                    19       5.1              -         -           -         -
Export products                    753       5.6            240       0.3         103       0.6
Fertilizer import and
distribution                     241    149.9             130      26.8           -         -
Other                           30,164      27.7          9,417       3.8       6,461       3.3
Services                          11,129      24.8          4,031       4.0       2,490       2.7
Village credit
institutions                   1,728      0.3             901       0.1          23         -
Transportation and
storage                       4,338        8.7          1,515       1.5       1,322       1.4
Other                            5,063      15.8          1,615       2.4       1,145       1.3
Medium-term loans /b             308,414      66.8         57.103        8.6         409       1.2
Personal and other loans          67,933       8.6         12,870       0.9       6,187       0.6
Total                    5.116,626    436.0       2,044.014       88.1      43,862      21.1
La Including amounts up to 3 months in arrears and amounts considered dubious.
/b General investment loans, small and mini investment and working capital credits.
Source: BRI - Statistik Perkreditan.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Bank Rakyat Indonesia: Loans Outstanding, Loans in
Arrears and Dubious Loans as of December 31, 1977
(Amounts in Rp billion)
Loans up to 3
Loans outstanding /a   months in arrears         Dubious loans
Number      Amount       Number      Amount    Number    Amount
Agriculture                    3,921,316    122.3       1,908,827       43.0       9,127      18.4
BIMAS paddy                 3,487,986       91.1      1,715,250      33.6          242      13.2
BIMAS secondary crops          404,661      13.8        186,428       4.3           31       2.8
Other rice                       3,092       1.5          1,276       0.2       3,141        0.6
Other secondary crops            2,048       0.5          1,104       0.1          725       0.3
Export crops                     2,285       1.0            221       0.1          330       0.3
Village improvements            10,321       1.3          1,982       0.1       2,707        0.3
Domestic procurement             2,872       8.6          1,376       3.8          150       0.1
Other                            8,051       4.5          1,190       0.8        1,801       0.8
Cattle breeding                    2,054       2.1             621       0.3         427       0.4
Fisheries                          3,674       3.0             651       0.1       1,879       1.0
Industry                           4,114      16.9           1,043       1.7       2,589       4.3
Food and clothing                  822       5.4             175      0.4          961       2.1
Export products                     62       1.1              22      0.3           55       0.2
Handicrafts                      1,474       2.7            386       0.3          979       0.8
Other                            1,756       7.7            460       0.7          594       1.2
Trade                             5C,167    177.4           11,398       4.9      12,907       8.3
Food and clothing               11,452       9.8          2,466       0.7       3,966        1.6
Nine main commodities            4,558       5.0            926       0.3        1,305       0.8
Rice procurement                    33       9.1               -         -           -         -
Export products                   .527       8.8             113      0.3          245       0.8
Fertilizer import and
distribution                     764    107.8              83       0.4            -         -
Other                           32,833      36.9          7,810       3.2        7,391       5.1
Services                          14,830      28.3          5,794        2.9       2,973       3.7
Village credit
institutions                   1,399       0.2            625       0.1           12        -
Transportation and
storage                        4,324       9.3          1,314       1.2       1,467        1.8
Other                            9,107      18.8          3,855        1.6       1,494       1.9
Medium-term loans /b             408,575      96.3          88.140      12.1       1,247       1.7
Personal and other loans         134,012      15.9          11.615       1.2       4,967       0.8
Total                    4,538.742    462.2        2,028,089      66.3      36,116      38.6
/a Including amounts up to 3 months in arrears and amounts considered dubious.
ib General investment loans, small and mini investment and working capital credits.
Source: BRI - Statistik Perkreditan.



INDONESIA
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
TYPICAL REGIONAL OFFICE ORGANIZATION CHART
REGIONAL OFFICE MANAGER
DEPUTY MANAGER
GENERAL/PERSONNEL            AUDIT/ACCOUNTING                  FINANCE                                      CREDIT
DEPARTMENT                   DEPARTMENT                        DEPARTMENT                                   DEPARTMENT
BOOKKEEPING  ~   ~      FNDS AND
LOGISTICS    PESNEL          INTERNAL    BOOKEPIG            ASH          BANK            CREDIT        CREDIT        CREDIT          KIK/KMKP
SECTSECT     SECTION         CONTROL     A|N  SECTION                     SERVICES        SECTION I     SECTION I     SECTION III     SECTION
REPORTING              ~~~~SECTION
BRANCH OFFICES
I                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-i17385
VILLAGE
UNITS



INDONESIA
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
TYPICAL BRANCH OFFICE ORGANIZATION CHART
BRANCH MANAGER
CREDIT OFFICER                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
SECONDARY BANK        CREDIT EVALUATION               CAHEOOKEPIGONNEL                            INTERNAL
SUPERVISIO            AND SUPERVISION                 SETO          ETO                SISCONTROL
SCIN       SECTION                    SECTION                              SECTIONLOITC           SECTION
VILLAGE
UNITS
World Bank-17387



INDONESIA
BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
HEAD OFFICE ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
| RESIEIIT-DIRECTOR
MANAGING DIRECTOR                                                      MANAG NG DIRECTOR
INTERNAL           AGRICULTURAL         MANAGEMENT           COMMERCIAL                                                                               INVESTMENT                                INTER-             URDANI ATION
AAIRITU              C                                        ACOUETBRA                                 PLANNING<                                         FUDS               IEPERSONNEL                                                    LOGISTICS          SECRETARY
BUREAU    ~ ~   CEDREA            COUROAU              BUREAU                                                        BUREAU                     CREDIT                 RAID NO            NATIONAL              ERDOBUREAU                               BU REAU            BUREAU
B  u  BUREAU                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~                          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUREAU  EAURA  OUREAU  BRA
AUDIT  APPRAISAL  OPERATIONS  APPRAIDAL     CENTRAL              CENTRAL             OPERATIGNO                 ~~~APPRAISAL&      r  CONTROL          rINTER-UDTM
DEPARTMENTMCON TRO              DEATEN                OEIEPNNDT                                LANNTEPRIDU                                                           NATIONAL             &PEDNLPRHSN                                                  ERTR
GEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT                                 DEPARTMENT                                                          DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPR T EN
MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                  EANICINO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE
EANMO                                                                AID                                                                              ADMINIOTRATIUN         TION                 OFFICE~~~~OF ICE
AUDIT  DEPARTMDNT  DOPERAIGION                                                        DEPARTMENT                                                                        DOPUOTMENT             OGISTICO            SECRETARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Id-1,- I'M






- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Subsectors
A. Perennial Crops
Pepper
1.        Indonesia has long been one of the world's major producers and
exporters of pepper. Over 1970-75, production averaged 28,500 tons p.a.,
and exports 21,500 tons p.a., or some 17% of world trade. Production has
fluctuated over time due largely to diseases. About 90% of total output
comes from Bangka Island (South Sumatra), where white pepper is produced, and
Lampung, which produces black pepper. Both products are obtained from the
same vine, Piper nigrum, but the berries are retted in water to produce white
pepper, and sun-dried without retting for black pepper.
2.        On Bangka Island, about 8,000 farmers grow pepper.  The average
holding is just under 1 ha. About 5,400 ha is productive, of which half
is ready for replanting, and 2,200 ha is immature. The average annual
yield is just under 1 ton/ha dry pepper (5,200 ton in 1974), whereas with
present planting material more than 3 ton/ha is possible. High producing
local varieties are grown at a density of 2,000 vines/ha. Dead supports are
used for this climbing crop and shade is absent. The gestation period of new
gardens is three years. Yellow decline, a serious condition in the past, has
been practically conquered. Disease and pest control are practiced, but
careful maintenance, use of mulch, and addition of large quantities of
balanced fertilizer, while essential for high yields, are not always practiced.
The productive life is at present generally less than 8 years, but could be
15 years with proper cultivation.
3.        Ripe berries are harvested in August/September, retted in water,
and dried in the sun. This white (Mentok) pepper is bagged and stored for
sale, generally to private traders. Farmers who need money earlier borrow
against the crop, generally at high interest, from middlemen. Farm-gate
prices are set quarterly by the Trade Department at approximately 50% of the
C&F Europe price. The farm-gate price as of October 1976 was Rp 620/kg,
with no price differentials by grade.
4.        There is over 30,000 ha of pepper in North Lampung and 4,000 ha in
Central Lampung, with only 10% of the total area immature. However, some 50%
of the area in North Lampung is affected by the very contagious Phytophthora
root disease which is still difficult to control; the remainder is prone to
abrupt infection. Pepper gardens in Central Lampung are much less susceptible
to infection; some 1,500 ha is ready for replanting in this area. Total
production for both areas in 1974 was 21,500 ton. High producing local
varieties are grown at a density of 2,000-2,500 vines/ha, under shade,
with stems of shade trees up to 6 m high used as climbing supports. The



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
gestation period is 5-7 years. Many mature gardens show signs of neglect;
disease and pest control are rare, and fertilizer use is inadequate. Mean
actual yields are approximately 700 kg/ha, but more than 2 ton/ha is possible.
The productive life is presently 10-12 years, but could reach 20 years with
proper cultivation.
5.        Green berries are harvested from July to October, sun-dried and
bagged for sale, usually to village middlemen. The farm-gate price in
October 1976 was set at Rp 424 per kg, equal to some 53% of the C&F
Europe price. Average income per hectare is therefore about Rp 300,000 p.a.,
only about half that of Bangka, due to less intensive production and pro-
cessing practices.
Coffee
6.        Over 1970-75, Indonesia's coffee production averaged 174,000 tons p.a.,
and exports 104,000 tons p.a., or some 3% of total world trade. Arabica types
are grown in the highlands of Sulawesi, and Robusta varieties elsewhere.
Lampung and South Sumatra contain 34% of all smallholders' coffee area. In
Lampung 1,200 ha immature, 44,000 ha mature and 5,500 ha senescent bushes
produce 30,000 ton/year, while in South Sumatra 4,900 ha, 55,000 ha and
7,200 ha, respectively, produce 29,000 ton/year.
7.        The Robusta types have good yield potential of over 1,500 kg/ha dry
coffee, with disease and pest control, maintenance pruning and heavy
fertilization; existing yields average 500-670 kg/ha. Cultivation is under
light shade, with 1,500-2,000 bushes/ha. The gestation period of new or
rejuvenated plantings is 3-4 years, with biennial bearing a common characteristic,
and the productive life is about 20 years.
8.        The crop is harvested once a year, in May to August.  Ripe berries
are picked, dried, hulled and sold to middlemen. Farm-gate prices are Rp 1,250
per kg (October 1976) with no quality differentials. The farmer receives
approximately 48% of C&F New York prices. Gross value per ha ranges from
Rp 625,000-937,000.
B. Cattle
9.        Indonesia contains about 6.2 million cattle and 2.3 million buffalo,
virtually all owned by smallholders. The animals are generally integrated
into the crop farming operation, and have four main economic outputs - draft
power, manure, meat, and dairy products. The last two constitute 7.2% of
total agricultural output.
10.       There are two major breeds of cattle in Indonesia.  The Ongole
(Bos Indicus) is a long-legged, relatively slow maturing, white to grey
animal. It is favored throughout the country as a road transport animal
and, in Java especially, for ploughing. The largest concentration of Ongoles
is on Java, but Sumba is recognized as the traditional source for purebred



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
animals. The calving frequency is generally low, and this is exacerbated on
Java by the poor condition of the cows (which are generally used for work)
and the irregular availability of bulls.
11.       The Bali (Bos Sonolaicus) is a small brown animal with white
escutcheon and white legs. Like the Ongole, it is a slow maturing animal,
but unlike the Ongole, it is extremely fertile. However, it is such a poor
milk producer that calf mortality is always high under field conditions;
survival is much better when the animals are housed.
12.       The cattle population has apparently been dropping over the past few
years, while demand for both beef and draft animals has risen. There appears
to be a shortage of draft animals in Java, where the cattle population has
been declining, and a growing need in the transmigration areas of Sumatra.
At the same time, the traditional cattle exporting islands of eastern Indonesia
(especially Sumba) have run down their own herds and can no longer meet the
needs of Java, Sumatra and Kalimantan.
13.       Until recently, the Government's programs were directed mainly
towards increased beef production, for local consumption or export. This
was the target of its first large-scale credit program, the Slaughter
Animal Development Program (PUTP), and of the Bank-financed Livestock
Project. Now, however, increasing the availability of draft animals has
become a prime concern.
C. Fisheries
14.       The fisheries subsector accounts for about 4.5% of agricultural
output and employs 1.2 million people. Fish are the major source of animal
protein in Indonesia. Total annual fisheries production/consumption is only
around 11 kg/capita, compared with the long-term target, on nutritional
grounds, of 30 kg/capita (which is the level in the Philippines and Malaysia).
Production and consumption in Java are far below the national average - con-
sumption is 3-4 kg/capita, and production some 3 kg/capita. Marine fisheries
account for 72% of output, brackish-water ponds 6%, freshwater ponds 4%, paddy
fields 2% and open fresh water 16%. Production is almost all for domestic
use, except shrimp, for which Indonesia is Japan's largest supplier; shrimp
exports grew from $31 million (25,000 tons) in 1972 to $120 million (35,000
tons) in 1976. While it is estimated that the total sustainable yield of
Indonesian waters would be about 6 million ton, compared to the 1.4 million
ton present production, many coastal areas are fully- or even over-exploited,
especially along the north coast of Java. The Second Plan projects a 4% p.a.
growth rate in output; this rate has been achieved over 1973-76, after a
growth rate of only about 1% p.a. over 1966-73.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Brackish-water Fishponds
15.       Indonesia contains about 180,000 ha of brackish-water ponds, chiefly
in Java (63%), South Sulawesi (24%), and Sumatra (10%). Production stagnated
from 1965-72, but rose from 51,000 tons in 1972 to 86,000 in 1976. Yields
average some 300 kg/ha in Java, and 400-500 kg/ha elsewhere. These yields are
quite low compared to other countries, such as Taiwan and the Philippines, due
to the poor cultivation techniques, especially the failure to use fertilizer,
of most Indonesian producers. Although most farmers try to grow primarily
milkfish ("chanos chanos"), because of its high prices and potential high
yields, it is estimated that only 20-30% of output in Java and 30-40% in South
Sulawesi is milkfish, due to shortage of milkfish fry and the incursion of
other "wild" fish, which eat milkfish fry and compete with milkfish for food,
into the ponds from the sea. More recently, interest in shrimp production
(especially tiger shrimp and white shrimp) has grown, due to the high export
price; 2,000-3,000 tons are produced, chiefly in South Sulawesi and East Java.
Average pond sizes are about 1 ha in West and Central Java and 5 ha in East
Java and South Sulawesi.
16.       A major constraint on milkfish production is the supply of fry.
West and Central Java import about 80% of their fry from South Sulawesi and
East Java, but those provinces are having smaller and smaller surpluses, given
their own rising demand.  As no way has yet been found to breed milkfish in
captivity, the two solutions to the fry shortage are to develop fry resources
in Nusa Tenggara (the islands east of Bali), and to increase the survival rate
(from fry to marketable size) from the present 10-15% to about 30%, with
improved facilities and management.
Freshwater Fishponds
17.       Indonesia has a total of some 17,000 ha of freshwater fishponds, of
which 90% is in West Java. Production has stagnated since 1964. The average
pond size is only about 0.1 ha, but many farmers own a number of ponds. Carp,
tawes and nilem are the main fish grown, with gourami, tambakan and tilapia
next in importance. Most farmers make ponds near their houses, in shaded
places that are difficult to use for farming. Farmers utilize their house
sewage and livestock manure very efficiently as fertilizer for the ponds. The
farmers are divided into fry producers, fingerling producers, and growers,
although some farmers produce from fry to marketable size in their own ponds.
Fry in nursery ponds or paddy fields grow to 3 to 5 cm fingerlings in 30-40
days, and 5 to 8 cm fingerlings in another 20-30 days. These fingerlings grow
in rearing ponds until they reach consumable size, usually 100 gr in 90 days.
They grow to 800 gr or 1,000 gr in special cases in another 3 to 5 months.
The main markets are Bandung and Jakarta for the large fish; smaller fish are
sold locally.
Fishing Boats
18.       Marine production was 665,000 tons in 1965, and 1,448,000 tons in
1976, a growth rate of 3.7% p.a. Over this period, the number of sailing



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
vessels increased from 225,000 to 290,000, but then fell back to 230,000,
while the number of boats with motors rose steadily from 5,300 to 16,500.
The fishinig ground for sailboats is generally within 20 km from the coast, as
the boats make daily trips, leaving in the early morning and returning before
the evening auction hour. Despite the intensive fishing along this coastal
belt, stocks appear to have been maintained, assisted by the flow of fertilized
water (from rice fields and fishponds) into the sea.
19.       The most important area for small fishermen is the Java Sea, off the
north coast of Java. In recent years, two major stock assessments of the Java
Sea (beyond the coastal belt) have been conducted, one by the FAO/UNDP and the
other by the West German and Indonesian Governments. These surveys suggest
that although larger fishing boats (e.g. 100 tons) would not be economical
there, smaller boats (e.g. 20-30 tons) could be profitable.
Ice
20.       Ice is needed for preservation of fish both aboard the fishing
vessels and after landing. At present ice production appears to be inadequate
outside of the major cities; therefore, prices to fishermen are high, and
use of ice is limited. As a result, there is high spoilage of fish at sea,
and most fish must be sold salted or dried, at prices well below those for
fresh fish.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Agricultural Credit Operations
A. The BIMAS/INMAS Program
Introduction
1.        BIMAS (Bimbingan Massal), which literally means "mass guidance," is
a national program to increase food crop production and farm income by
supplying credit and cash inputs at subsidized prices. Originally developed
by the Bogor Agricultural Institute, BIMAS was initiated in the 1965/66 wet
season, involving a few thousand hectares and a handful of farmers. It
expanded, with various modifications, until it covered around 40% of the rice
area with an assured water supply and 25% of the total wet-season rice area.
BIMAS is currently the most important Government program to raise food crop
yields, production and farm income, but farmer participation under BIMAS has
been declining in recent years, and INMAS (Intensificasi Massal) now appears
to cover a larger area.
2.        The INMAS program was established in 1967/68 to make available sub-
sidized inputs for cash to farmers who did not wish, did not need or were not
eligible for BIMAS credit. The basic premise behind the creation of INMAS
was that after a few years with BIMAS, a farmer's credit requirements would
decrease, but that he would still need a program to provide inputs at subsi-
dized prices. Therefore, under INMAS, no government credit was extended.
However, starting with the wet season 1977/78, credit has been made available
under INMAS on the same terms as BIMAS, for incremental fertilizer purchases.
Over the last three years, INMAS has grown rapidly in terms of both area
coverage and number of participants.
The Initial BIMAS Programs
3.        The original "Block BIMAS" program (1965/66) provided credit and
inputs to groups of farmers through cooperatives or with the village head
("lurah") acting as intermediary. It was soon affected by high arrears on
loans, due primarily to the inadequate managerial experience of the newly
formed cooperatives, the general absence of collateral and the failure to
evaluate farmers' repayment ability. Over 1965-69, credits totalling
Rp 7.8 billion were extended, of which about half was recovered.
4.        A variation of the "Block BIMAS," the BIMAS Gotong Royong (self-help)
was introduced in 1969/70. Under this program, credit was supplied as a fixed
package per hectare to all farmers in selected areas, regardless of whether



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
they wanted it or could use it efficiently. The village heads received the
total allocation for their village and distributed it to individual farmers.
The input package, provided by contractors, included seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides, cost of spraying, transportation and technical assistance. Cash
for living expenses also was available from BRI, as a loan. Many of the
problems of the "Block BIMAS" were experienced again under this program.
Collection rates were particularly low because no records were kept at the
village level. With the adoption on a large scale of the improved BIMAS
program, the BIMAS Gotong Rovong was discontinued in 1970/71.
The Improved BIMAS Program
5.        The-improved BIMAS program was introduced in the Yogyakarta area
in the wet season of 1969/70. Major changes from previous programs were made
in the disbursement of credits and in extension. Rather than being channelled
through an intermediary, credits became available to the individual farmer
directly from BRI, and a new geographical unit, the village unit, became the
basis for providing a coordinated package of credit and technical advice.
Defined as covering 600-1,000 hectares of well-irrigated paddy fields and
serving 3-5 villages, each village unit includes a BRI credit office (fixed
or mobile), a farmers' cooperative (BUUD/KUD) or a village kiosk to supply
inputs, and at least one field extension officer. In nonirrigated or upland
areas, no fixed criteria have been established for the size of village units.
These may extend to cover a whole subdistrict ("kecamatan"), depending on
farm density and cropping activity.
6.        Since its inception, the improved BIMAS program has undergone further
changes to suit the needs of a wider range of farmers. Loan procedures have been
simplified and commodity coverage extended. In the 1972/73 wet season, corn,
groundnut, and soybean production were added to the program. A year later,
coastal and dry land rice was included, along with sorghum and green peas;
cassava followed in 1974/75. Separate packages have been developed for each of
these crops and for the wet and dry season (Tables 1 and 2). Any farmer can
apply for assistance under the program, but his creditworthiness must be
attested to by the village head before BRI will grant him a loan. Village
heads receive a small incentive for each loan made, with half payment at the
time of loan approval and the other half when the loan is repaid. Farmers
are permitted some choice in the selection of package components, and in
practice gain flexibility by exchanging materials with neighbors. Credit
vouchers are used to obtain fertilizer and insecticide from the village kiosk
or the farmers' cooperative, and cash is given for seeds, spraying costs and
living expenses. The loan may be repaid in cash, or deducted from payments
for crops delivered to the cooperative.
7.        BIMAS credits are granted by BRI at 12% interest p.a. and fully
refinanced by Bank Indonesia at 3% p.a. Loans fall due 7 months after their
disbursement, but are not considered overdue until 14 months after. This allows
the farmer to take best advantage of seasonal crop price fluctuations. No
interest or penalties are charged on overdue loans, and a farmer's eligibility
to borrow continues as long as he is not overdue for two seasons' loans.
Loans may be rescheduled in times of crop failure or natural disasters,
but this has not been done so far. Credit risk on BIMAS loans is shared
between Government (50%), BI (25%) and BRI (25%).



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Recent Performance
8.        Although its importance has been declining recently, BIMAS has been
an important factor in the increase in rice production since 1970. From
1.0 million ha and 1.3 million participating farmers in the 1970/71 wet
season, the program grew to involve 2.2 million ha and 2.6 million farmers in
:974/75, before decreasing to 1.8 million ha and 2.1 million farmers in
1976/77. The BIMAS program for secondary crops has been less important,
iLvolving at its peak (1975 dry season) only 220,000 ha and 254,000 farmers.
As in the case of BIMAS paddy, the area covered by BIMAS secondary crops has
declined recently (Table 3).
9.        In contrast to the BIMAS programs, the INMAS program continues to
grow in terms of both area and number of participants. During the past three
wet seasons (1974/75 - 1976/77), the area under INMAS paddy more than doubled,
to 1.7 million ha. Area gains were registered in all regions, with the increase
in Java being the most significant in both relative and absolute terms (Table 4).
10.       Taken together, the BIMAS and INMAS paddy area increased from 2.8 to
3.5 million ha during the past three wet seasons, while the area in secondary
crops rose from 228,000 to 775,000 ha. In 1976/77, INMAS accounted for 49% of
the rice area under intensification and 80% in the case of secondary crops.
Significantly, during the 1976/77 wet season, the combined INMAS area under
paddy and secondary crops exceeded for the first time the area under the BIMAS
programs. While BIMAS and INMAS' are well developed in Java, farmer participa-
tion in the outer islands is much lower.
BIMAS Credit Repayment
ii.       Repayment rates for BIMAS paddy (Table 5) and secondary crops
(Table 6) loans granted during 1970/71-1973/74 were very good; collections
within one year of due date exceeding most often 90% of amounts disbursed.
These good results appear to have been due in part to BRI's vigorous collec-
tions efforts, which included police and court action whenever appropriate,
and to generally good harvests. However, repayment performance began to
deteriorate with the dry season of 1974 and further decreased since then.
By April 1976, 86% of the 1974/75 paddy credit had been repaid, whereas one
year later, only 62% of the 1975/76 credit had been recovered.  A similar
trend has affected BIMAS credits for secondary crops. As of May 31, 1977,
total arrears (amounts not repaid more than 14 months after disbursement) on
BIMAS paddy credits had accumulated to Rp 28.6 billion, or 36% of the outstand-
ing portfolio. Of this amount, Rp 25.6 billion (90%) was accounted for by
credits granted in 1974/75, 1975i and 1975/76. Arrears on BIMAS credits for
secondary crops as of May 31, 1977, totalled Rp 3.4 billion or 29% of the
outstanding portfolio.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
12.       Among the reasons suggested for the deterioration in BIMAS repayments
are crop damage from drought, flood and pests, dissatisfaction with cumbersome
credit-approval procedures, and the reduced appeal of the input package due
to lower fertilizer prices and readily available supplies outside of the
program. However, probably another important reason is weak collections
efforts by BRI, coupled with insufficient incentives for borrowers to repay./l
Losing access to BIMAS credit no longer seems to effectively deter borrowers'
from defaulting, especially now that INMAS includes credit as well.
B. KMKP "Massal"
13.       Under KMKP, BRI has financed a number of programs for specific
commodities, known as mass ("massal") or special ("khusus") KMKPs. Although
conforming to the general rules of KMKP (e.g. concerning interest rate,
maximum maturity, BI rediscounting terms), these programs are actually
more similar to BIMAS than to general KMKP in that they: (a) cover specific
commodities; (b) meet essentially short-term production costs; (c) are
developed in close collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture; (d) involve
generally fixed input packages; (e) have lending targets in each district
involved; and (f) involve only limited checking of individual borrower
creditworthiness and individual subproject viability.
14.       The agricultural KMKP "massals" BRI has handled are cloves, pepper,
cattle fattening, fisheries, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane and poultry. The
performance of these different programs has varied widely. In addition, there
is a KMKP fisheries that is more like a general KMKP approach, in that it is
just an amount of money set aside for fisheries lending (both inland and
marine), with no specific loan packages, and only limited technical support.
Pepper KMKP
15.       Following demonstrations during 1971-73 of a good response to high
fertilizer application by mature pepper vines, the pepper KMKP program was
started in Lampung in 1974/75 and Bangka in 1975/76. The credits are
granted for 12 months (October to October). The package for Lampung has been
about Rp 150,000/ha, consisting of 400 kg of fertilizer (increased to 600 kg
in 1976/77), insecticides, fungicides, spray equipment and Rp 50,000 for
subsistence (payment for the opportunity cost of the farmer's labor). All
except the last are paid in kind.
16.       Technical responsibility is borne by a Project Management Unit
(PMU). Cooperation between BRI and the PMU has been satisfactory. Village
heads select initial candidates. Ten PMU officers, briefly trained, visit
/1 At 12% p.a., the interest rate on BIMAS loans is barely positive in real
terms. Furthermore, neither regular nor penalty interest is charged on
amounts in arrears.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
candidate gardens jointly with BRI staff, for final selection. The rejection
rate is 10-15%. Appraisal criteria include condition of farm (disease free,
less than 20% failures, good maintenance, good yield potential), proven
farming ability, motivation and character of applicants. Land titles as
legal collateral value are rare. Standards for selection are subjectively
applied. The successful applicant obtains 1 month training and receives
material inputs in October annually from commercial sources, through the
village headman. Control on supply and application is exercised by PMU
officers. The farmers' obligations include maintenance, preparation of
catchment pits, shade tree pruning, removal of lower branches, application of
fertilizers, insecticides and fungicides. Repayment is a precondition for
obtaining further production credits. Marketing is through traditional
private channels, but may eventually be handled by cooperatives. Farmers
receive fixed farmgate prices.
17.       For Lampung in 1974/75, the target of 500 ha was reached, involving
408 farmers. In 1975/76, only 365 ha (300 farmers) were covered, compared to
the target of 700 ha, and as of October 1976, only 210 farmers had asked for
loans, compared to the 1976/77 target of 750 ha. This declining interest
results from the failure of the program to achieve satisfactory results. In
1974/75, yields averaged 375 kg/ha for non-borrowers and 525 kg/ha for bor-
rowers. The incremental 150 kg/ha was worth Rp 60,000 (Rp 400/kg farmgate),
far below the cost of the loan package. For 1975/76, yields averaged 450 kg/ha
without the loan, and 650 kg/ha with. At a farmgate price of Rp 340/kg, the
incremental income was still only Rp 68,000. The poor response (especially
compared to the 2,000 kg/ha ac'hievable by healthy gardens using 1,200-2,000 kg/
ha of fertilizer) was apparently due to (a) the low response potential of
old gardens that had been poorly established and maintained, (b) inadequate
usage of fertilizer, (c) late arrival of inputs, (d) disease in several cases,
and (e) the poor technical knowledge of the PMU staff. Should the 1976/77
credit, with a higher fertilizer dosage (600 kg/ha vs. 400 kg/ha) and, hope-
fully, better selection of gardens and supervision of borrower not produce
satisfactory results, termination of the program is likely.
18.       Not surprisingly, repayment performance has been very poor in
Lampung. Total collections of principal and interest have been less than 10%
of the amount due, for both the 1974/75 and the 1975/76 loans. The poor
collections performance reflects both the unprofitability of the investments
and the poor synchronization of BRI's collections efforts with availability
of cash from sales by farmers. Since farmers in default are not eligible for
a second credit, there have been virtually no repeat borrowers.
19.       Bankga.  In contrast with Lampung, the program has been highly
successful in Bangka. The 1975/76 package was Rp 165,000/ha, consisting of
Rp 60,000 for 400 kg NPK fertilizer, Rp 24,000 for 200 kg urea, Rp 32,000
for 10 litres insecticide and Rp 50,000 for cost of living; mulching is
expected to be done by farmers, as is soil cultivation, weeding, fertilizer
application, and insect control. Coverage was 470 ha (compared to the



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
500 ha target) and 618 farmers. Borrowers' gardens obtained yields of 1,500-
2,000 kg/ha, compared to 1,000 kg/ha for untreated gardens. Some 80% of
this response should be attributed to combined fertilizer and mulch treatment;
maximum response is achieved in gardens with both treatments together. While
still well below the potential yields of 3,000-4,000 kg/ha in gardens of high
production potential that receive fertilizer dressings of 2,000-3,000 kg/ha,
the incremental yield of 500-1,000 kg/ha was worth Rp 320,000-Rp 640,000 (at
Rp 620/kg for white pepper), well above the input cost. Repayments have also
been good - some 70% of principal was repaid by the end of October 1976.
Demand for the 1976/77 program was strong, with 513 existing borrowers and
1,242 new borrowers having applied, covering 1,282 ha (the target is 1,500 ha).
The new credite package was set at Rp 118,000/ha, consisting of Rp 48,000 for
600 kg PK, Rp 24,000 for 300 kg urea, Rp 21,000 for 10 litres insecticide, and
Rp 25,000 for subsistence. Inputs arrived well in time.
Cattle Fattening KMKP
20.       The cattle-fattening KMKP, officially known as the Slaughter Animal
Development Program ("Panca Usaha Ternak Potong", or PUTP) is the largest of
BRI's KMKP massal programs. Each loan covers six fattening periods of six
months each - a total of three years - with one-sixth of the loan to be
repaid at the end of each period. Each package consists of 1 animal and each
farmer may take up to 3 packages. The loan is for Rp 80,000 as follows:
purchase animal - Rp 70,000; improvement of stable - Rp 5,000; fodder -
Rp 4,000; and veterinary expenses - Rp 1,000.
21.       The program began in 1975, and during its first year, 22,088 farmers
borrowed for 27,851 animals (the target was 28,000) with total lending
US$4.88 million. Coverage was limited to 18 districts ("kabupatens") in East
Java, Central Java and Yogyakarta. The 1976/77 program aims at financing an
additional 23,850 animals, in both Java and other islands. Overall repayment
data are not available; initial collections were apparently good in most
areas, but poor in some (e.g. near Yogyakarta) where farmers used the credit
to meet their urgent need for draft animals, and hence had no income from
sales of fattened animals after six months.
22.       Procurement and marketing arrangements vary by location.  In Central
Java, the regular markets have generally been used, with supervision by the
provincial extension staff. In East Java, cooperatives, with loans from BRI,
have bought the cattle from the farmers, and held them in cooperative field
lots until sold to slaughter houses. In Yogyakarta, extension staff have
purchased groups of unfattened animals from traders, and then distributed
them to borrowers, who can select cattle from the group; few farmers exercised
the option of buying outside directly.
C. KIK "Massal"
23.       BRI has financed seven KIK Massal programs:  (a) cattle breeding;
(b) fishpond development; (c) fishing boat motorization; (d) rice field
development; (e) rice mills; (f) rice storage and drying floors; and (g)



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
mist blowers. The last three! have been for cooperatives and have been prac-
tically discontinued, due to changes in government policy and poor repayment
performance. The first three are closely related to project sub-loan cate-
gories.
Cattle Breeding KIK
24.       The cattle-breeding KIK was introduced around the end of 1976,
following the generally successful experience of the first year cattle
fattening KMKP, and the recognition that breeding of draft animals was of
prime importance. The loans are for five years, for a package consisting of
five pregnant cows (Rp 300,000 in North and South Sulawesi, and West Nusa
Tenggara; Rp 375,000 in Aceh; Rp 450,000 in Lampung and South Kalimantan),
stable improvement (Rp 50,000), fodder (Rp 36,000), veterinary expenses
(Rp 14,000) and artificial insemination (Rp 10,000). Total cost is Rp 410,000 -
Rp 560,000. The initial year's target in the 6 provinces totalled 1,226
packages (6,130 cows) costing Rp 551 million (US$1.33 million).
Fishpond Development KIK
25.       Under KIK, BRI has been financing fishpond improvement in areas not
covered by the IDA-financed Fisheries Credit Project, and construction
of new fishponds in all areas. These have tended to be scattered loans,
and only limited data are available. It is unlikely that the owners of new
fishponds will be able to repay their loans within 5 years out of their pond
earnings.
Fishing Boat Construction and Motorization KIK
26.       BRI has financed construction of motorized boats in various loca-
tions, and the installation of inboard motors into existing boats. Both have
been scattered developments, using funds reserved for fisheries, but not
otherwise different from general KIK.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BIMAS Paddy Packages for 1977/78 /a
Irrigated paddy - liquid insecticide                               Irrigated paddy - granulated insecticide
Package A       Package B        Package C       Average package    Package A         Package B        Package C        Average package
Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount         Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp        Amount      Rp
Urea                     200 kg  14,000  100 kg   7,000  250 kg  17,500  183.3 kg  12,831  200 kg  14,000  100 kg   7,000  250 kg  17,500  183.3 kg  12,831
TSP                       50 kg   3,500   35 kg   2,450   75 kg   5,250   53.3 kg   3,731   50 kg   3,500   35 kg   2,450   75 kg   5,250   53.3 kg   3,731
Insecticide /b             2 1    2,460    2 1    2,460    2 1    2,460         2 1    2,460            6,000            6,000            6,000              6,000
Rodenticide              100 g       230  100 g      230  100 g       230    100 g       230  100 g       230  100 g       230  100 g       230    100 g        230
Seed                              3,750                             3,750              2,500            3,750                             3,750              2,500
Spraying                          2,000            2,000            2,000              6,000            1,000            1,000            1,000               1,000
Cost of living                    6,000            6,000            6,000              6,000            6,000            6,000            6,000               6,000
Total cost                  31,940           29,140           37,190             29,752           34,480           22,680           39,780             33,292
Irrigated paddv - using DAP /c                                                  Dryland.paddy
Package A       Package B        Package C       Average package                                       Wet season        Dry season
Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount         Rp                                      Amount    Rp      Amount      Rp
Urea                   180.5 kg  12,635  86.3 kg  6,041  220 kg  15,400  162.3 kg  11,361           Urea                         150 kg  10,500    200 kg  14,000
TSP                       50 kg   4,500    35 kg  3,150   75 kg   6,750   53.3 kg   3,731           TSP                                              65 kg  45,000
Insecticide (granules)            6,000            6,000            6,000              6,000        NPK 15-15-15                 200 kg   1,400
Rodenticide              100 g       230   100 g     230  100 g       230    100 g       230        Insecticide lb                 2 1    2,460       2 1    2,460
Seed                              3,750                             3,750              2,500        Rodenticide                  100 g      230    100 g        230
Spraying                          1,000            1,000            1,000              1,000        Spraying                              2,000              2,000
Cost of living                    6,000            6,000            6,000              6,000        Cost of living                        6,000               6,000
Total cost                  34.115           22,421           39.130             30,822             Total cost                      35,190             29,340
/a Designed for a one hectare farm.
/b  Insecticide cost includes rebottling and administrative expenses.                                                                                                1w
/c  Diammonium phosphate.                                                                                                                                            m >4
Source: BIMAS Secretariat.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BIMAS Secondary Crops Packages for 1977/78 /a
Corn           Soybeans         Groundnuts       Green peas          Sorghum            Cassava           Sweet potato
Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount    Rp    Amount           Rp    Amount        Rp     Amount        Rp
Urea             200 kg   8,000   50 kg   2,000  25 kg    1,000  25 kg    1,000  150 kg   6,000  100 kg Ic  16,000  100 kg /c  14,500
Urea             200 kg  14,000   50 kg   3,500  50 kg    3,500  25 kg    1,750  150 kg  10,500  100 kg /c   7,000  100 kg /c   7,000
TSP              100 kg   7,000   50 kg   3,500  75 kg    5,250  50 kg    3,500   75 kg   5,250
Pesticide /b    0.5 1        615    4 1    4,920   2 1        2,460   2 1      2,460    1 1    1,230  0.5 kg /d   1,150
Seed                       2,585           12,000           30,090             6,790              820                5,350                5,000                g
Spraying                                    2,000             1,000            1,000              500
Cost of living             2,500            2,500             2,500            2,500            2,500                2,500                2,500
Total cost          26,700            28,500           44,800           18,000            20,800               16,000               14.500
/a  Designed for a one hectare farm.
Unit costs
Urea, TSP            Rp  70/kg
Pesticide            Rp 900/1 + Rp 330/1 rebottling costs.
/b Pesticide cost includes rebottling expenses.
/c Fertilizer used in this case is NPK.
/d  Rodenticide.
r  tB1
Source:  BIMAS Secretariat.                                                                                                                               MM



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BIMAS Lending for Paddy and Secondary Crops /a
(Total Indonesia)
% of
Planting                   No. of       Credit amount       credit
season            Area    farmers   Disbursed  Repaid   repaid
('000 ha)  ('000)    - (Rp million) -         (%)
I. Paddy
1970/71 Wet        1,009      1,323     8,462      8,127        96
1971    Dry          296        357     2,508      2,348        94
1971/72 Wet          891      1,102     7,304      7,050        97
1972    Dry          308        357     2,559      2,392        93
1972/73 Wet        1,380      1,715    12,771    12,018         94
1973    Dry          487        549     4,938      4,572        93
1973/74 Wet        2,123      2,558    31,561    28,400         90
1974    Dry          813        898    12,529    10,959         87
1974/75 Wet        2,171      2,615    40,645    35,693         88
1975    Dry          887      1,007    17,279    13,399         76
1975/76 Wet        2,132      2,439    55,043    38,805         70
1976    Dry          862        915    22,439    13,531         60
1976/77 Wet        1,815      2,090    48,647    20,075         41
1977    Dry          662        631    17,306      1,011         6
Subtotal                           284,080   198,383         70
II.  Secondary Crops
1972/73 Wet            6          6         53        51        96
1973    Dry           13         19         95        91        96
1973/74 Wet          104        124     1,182      1,051        89
1974    Dry          155        192     2,133      1,848        87
1974/75 Wet          168        169     3,225      2,204        68
1975    Dry          220        254     4,712      3,237        69
1975/76 Wet          181        188     4,353      2,574        59
1976    Dry          168        175     4,521      2,595        57
1976/77 Wet          173        177     4,398      1,385        31
1977    Dry          106         92     3,195         71         2
Subtotal                            27.866    15,108         54
/a As of October 23, 1977.
Source: BRI.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Area Covered under BIMAS and INMAS Paddy, Wet Seasons 1974/75-1976/77
('000 ha)
BIMAS                           INMAS                          Total
Province           1974/75  1975/76  1976/77    1974/75  1975/76  1976/77    i974/75  1975/76  1976/77
Sumatra
Aceh                       11       13          7           -         1        37          12        14        45
North Sumatra              44       41        45           48        16        96          92        57       141
West Sumatra               17       39        32            6        20        61          22        59        93
Riau                        7       20        10           17        35        17          24        55        27
Jambi                      8        37        28            4        15       12           12        52        40
South Sumatra             17        30        29            5         8        18          22        38        47
Bengkulu                   4         3         8            -         -         3           4         4        11
Lampung                   39        31        39            -         4        34          39        35        74
Subtotal            147      214        198          80        99       278         227       314       478
Java
West Java                619       616       583          196       276      402          816       892       985
Jakarta                    -         -         -           -          3         8           -         3         8
Central Java             455       430       317         215       218       394          671       648       711
Jogjakarta                70        62        35            6         9       63           76        71        98
East Java                682       615       492          107       115      367          789       730       859
Subtotal         1,826    1,723    1,427            524       621    1,234        2,352    2,344    2.661
Kalimantan
West Kalimantan             8        16       11           12        18        38          20        35        50
South Kalimantan          10         8        12           40       40        63           50        48        75
Central Kalimantan         2          1        4            5       54        12            7        56        16
East Kalimantan            -         -         -            9         9        11           9         9        12
Subtotal             20        25        27          66       121       124          86       148       153
Sulawesi
North Sulawesi              9         6         6           5        16         8          14        23        15
Central Sulawesi           3         4          1           -         4         8           3         7         9
South Sulawesi            56        56        64            3       20        31           59        77        94
Southeast Sulawesi         -         -         -           -          -        -            -         1         -
Subtotal             68        66        71           8        40        47          76       108       118
Other provinces
West Nusa Tenggara        33        36        30            6         5        16          39        41        46
East Nusa Tenggara         2          7        8            1         -         1           3         7         9
Bali                      60        59        56            3         5        16          64        64        71
Subtotal             95       102        94          10        10        33         106       112       126
Total            2,156    2,130    1,817            688       891    1.716        2,847    3,026    3,536
Note: Totals by line may not add up due to rounding.
Source: BIMAS Secretariat.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BIMAS Paddy Credit Repayment Performance - Total Java La
(Amounts in Rp million)
1970/71    1971   1971/72    1972   1972/73    1973    1973/74    1974    1974/75             1975    1975/76        1976    1976/77
Amount disbursed                 7,654.0  1,925.0  6,575.0  2,096.0  10,785.0  3,938.0  26,302.0  9,734.0  35,017.0  13,311.0  47,833.0  17,257.0  41,339.0
Amount repaid                    7,050.0  1,605.0  5,318.0    993.0   8,518.0  1,934.0  21,865.0  4,654.0  26,405.0   4,882.0  27,262.0   4,743.0   1,576.0
Outstanding balance
end of season /b           604.0    320.0  1,257.0  1,103.0   2,267.0  2.004.0   4,437.0  5.080.0   8.612.0   8.429.0  20,571.0  12,514.0  39.763.0
Repayment of balance over time
1973                            181.0    131.0    775.0    823.0             -         -          -         -          -           -          -          -          -
1974                            118.0      72.0    212.0    128.0   1,493.0  1,586.0              -         -          -           -          -          -          -
1975                             58.0      26.0      66.0      30.0      318.0    164.0   2,482.0  3,876.0             -           -          -          -          -
1976                               7.0      6.0       8.0       5.0       28.0      17.0      869.0    501.0   3,769.0   5,334.0              -          -          -
1977                                 -         -         -        -        29.0        -          -         -      354.0      218.0   2,355.0   1,817.0             -
Total repayment /c         7,414.0  1,840.0  6,379.0  1,979.0  10,386.0  3,701.0  25,216.0  9,024.0  30,528.0  10,434.0  29,617.0   6,560.0   1,576.0
Total outstanding /c         240.0      85.0    196.0    117.0        399.0    237.0   1,086.0    710.0   4,489.0   2,877.0  18,216.0  10,967.0  39,763.0
% Repaid                            96.7      95.6      97.0      94.4       96.3      94.0       95.9      92.8       87.2       78.4       61.9       38.0         3.8
% Outstanding                        3.3       4.4       3.0       5.6        3.7       6.0        4.1       7.2       12.8       21.6       38.1       62.0        96.2
% Repayment within one year
of due date                       92.1      90.2     92.3      86.6       92.8      89.4       92.3      87.6       86.2        76.7       61.9       38.0          -
% Repayment within two years
of due date                       94.5      93.9     95.9      92.7        95.6     93.4       95.9      92.8       87.2        78.4          -          -           -
/a  Information presented is derived from BRI records as of December 31, 1970-76.  Information for the 1976/77 planting season is as of
May 31, 1977.
/b  Credit repayments are due 7 months after disbursement and considered in arrears after 14 months.
El
/c  As of May 31, 1977.                                                                                                                                                   a w
Source: BRI.






- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BIMAS Secondary Crops Credit Repayment Performance - Total Java /a
(Amounts in Rp million)
1972/73
1973   1973/74   1974    1974/75   1975    1975/76
Amount disbursed                 106.4    968.3   1,714.9  1,888.8  3,709.4  3,443.8
Amount repaid                     97.1    776.2       692.3  1,134.1    935.0  1,575.2
Outstanding balance
end of season /b           9.3    192.1   1,022.6    754.7  2,774.4  1,868.6
Repayment of balance over time
1975                             4.1     79.2      630.1         -         -        -
1976                             1.0     22.1      236.5    369.5  1,660.1          -
Total repayment             102.2    877.5   1,558.9  1,503.6  2,595.1  1,575.2
Outstanding balance /c        4.2     90.8      156.0    385.2  1,114.3  1,868.6
% Repaid                          96.1      90.6      90.9      79.6      70.0     45.7
% Outstanding                      3.9       9.4        9.1     20.4      30.0     54.3
% Repayment within one year
of due date                     91.3      88.3      77.1      79.6      70.0        -
% Repayment within two years
of due date                     96.1     90.6       90.9         -         -        -
la  Information presented is derived from BRI records as of December 31, 1974-76.
Information for the 1976/77 planting season is not available.
/b  Credit repayments are due after 7 months and considered in arrears after
14 months.
/c  As of December 31, 1976.
Source: BRI.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Subloan Categories - Explanations and Models
A. Perennial Crops
1.        The perennial crop lending would all be in South Sumatra and
Lampung, under'the supervision of BRI's Palembang Regional Office. Technical
support from the Directorate General (DG) of Estate Crops would be provided
primarily through Project Management Units (PMUs) operating under the
provincial extension services. Each PMU would be providing assistance to a
group of farmers growing a particular perennial crop in a given area.
Project subborrowers would generally be in the group covered by the PMU;
however, not all farmers in that group would necessarily be selected by BRI
as subborrowers. Before commencing lending for the perennial crop categories,
BRI would have to satisfy itself that the PMU involved was capable of
providing the necessary support. In some cases, additional provision in the
development budget for the PMJs would be needed to bring them up to the
required strength.
2.        A project manager heads each PMU, and is responsible to the
project officer, who is the head of the Provincial Smallholders Extension
Service of the DG. The manager has two or more assistants, several field
agents and other staff in accordance with the size of the project. Each
agent maintains contact with some 25-50 farmers; in large projects, contact
farmers are elected by the farmers to serve as intermediaries for the
transmission of technical information and advice from the field agents.
Pepper - Bangka Island
3.        Bangka Island is weLl suited for pepper replanting because of
proper climatic conditions, concentrated and easily accessible pepper
areas, experienced and motivated smallholders, a well-run PMU, sufficient
numbers of aging and senescent gardens, and the successful implementation of
the Pepper KMKP (Annex 3). However, the chemical soil conditions are
extremely poor; application of 3 ton/ha complete fertilizer, combined with
heavy mulching, good maintenance and pest and disease control are necessary
to achieve high yields. In particular, low or unbalanced fertilizer levels
and neglect of mulching would reduce yields by some 50%, and permit fatal
yellow decline to develop. Even one year's neglect would be extremely
harmful.
4.        PMU support is needed for (a) selecting healthy, good quality
cuttings for planting, (b) advising BRI on which gardens are suitable for
replanting, (c) ensuring that commercial channels provide adequate and
timely supplies of fertilizer and other inputs, and (d) checking that the
gardens remain healthy.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        The credit package would generally be for a maximum of one ha per
farmer, as this is the area a farmer could adequately handle with his
family. Credit would be needed for the three-year gestation period, plus
the next year, when the yield is low. The total maturity period would be
about eight years. About 1,600 ha appear suitable, phased approximately
400 ha in 1979/80, 550 in 1980/81 and 650 in 1981/82. The areas of Namang,
Jelutung, Sungka and Petaling would be most suitable in the first year,
expanding to Mentok, Toboali and Koba thereafter.
6.        The package would cover hardwood posts, fertilizers, insecticides,
fungicides, mulch, spray equipment, the land title certificate and labor. The
posts would be wholly or partially excluded for replanting where satisfactory
posts exist. The total investment is shown in Table la, and the cash
flow in Table lb.
Pepper - Lampung
7.        Lampung is also climatically well suited for pepper, and has much
better soils than Bangka. However, the general quality and maintenance of
the existing plantings is poorer than in Bangka, so greater efforts at
farmer training will be necessary. In addition, as phytopthera disease is
rampant in parts of Lampung, special care will be needed in the selection of
areas for the credits. The PMU will need to be strengthened to perform
these functions adequately. In view of the poor performance of the Pepper
KMKP in Lampung during its first two years, it is advisable to move slowly
in the implementation of the planting/replanting scheme until after it has
been tried out for a year in Bangka.
8.        The maximum area to be covered would generally be one ha.  Credit
would be needed for the five-year gestation period, plus the next year of
low yield. (The gestation period is longer than in Bangka because the vines
are grown in shade, on live supports which are planted one year before the
vines; pilot efforts of using dead supports may also be tried out on a
limited basis.) The total maturity period would be about 11 years. About
1,200 ha appears suitable, phased approximately 450 ha in 1980/81 and 750 ha
in 1981/82. Lending would be limited to South Lampung. Sukaduna and Jepara
appear suitable initially, followed by Djabung and Labuhan Meringgai.
9.        The investment cost is lower than for Bangka because no posts would
be needed (live trees are used); the fertilizer need would be 2 ton/ha, rather
than 3 ton/ha (due to better soils); no mulch would be used, and less labor
would be required. Partially offsetting this would be greater use of fungicide
and insecticide. The investment cost is shown in Table 2a, and the cash flow
in Table 2b.
Coffee - Lampung
10.       About 2,500 ha of coffee in South Lampung would be rejuvenated by
deep pruning (also called stumping), with approximately the following phasing:
1979/80, 450 ha; 1980/81, 800 ha; 1981/82, 1,250 ha. The first area covered



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
would be Tabang Pandang, and then the nearby Pulau Bangun/Kedongdong. Demon-
strations by PMUs have shown excellent results when deep pruning is combined
with adequate fertilization. There has recently been considerable spontaneous
deep pruning by smallholders, based upon advice from the PMUs, but usually
without concomitant fertilization.
11.       The credit package would include fertilizer, insecticides, fungicides,
a sprayer and the land title certificate, plus income to substitute in part for
the output foregone during the investment period. To produce a stable income
for the farmers, only one fourth of the area would be stumped every two years.
(Since the cycle after stumping consists of two years without production,
two years of low yield and four years of high yield, after which the plants
should be stumped again, at any given time one fourth of the garden would be
in gestation, one-fourth having low yields, and half having high yields. In
any case, shade requirements preclude stumping more than half the rows in
any year.)
B. Cattle Breeding
12.       The DG of Animal Husbandry (DGAH) has now developed a credit
package for cattle breeding in the outer islands, consisting of credit to
smallholders for the purchase of five cows, plus housing for the cattle,
veterinary supplies, and supplementary feed. Artificial insemination (AI)
would be available for some cows under the program. In November 1977, BRI
began to give five-year subloans for this cattle breeding, under the KIK
program.
13.       The project would finance this program in 1979/80 in South Sulawesi,
Lampung and possibly East Java, and then spread the program to Central Java
and Yogyakarta the following year. The main modifications would be:
(a) extending the loan period from five years to eight years, so that
farmers would be able to repay while maintaining the herd sizes
they had established;
(b) requiring that bull units be provided, with or without the AI, to
increase the calving rate; suitable bulls could be provided by
P.T. Bina Mulya Ternak ranches (financed under the Livestock
Project) in Sumba and South Sulawesi, as well as from other
sources, using pure Ongoles, pure Brahmans, Ongole/Brahman and
Ongole/Charbray crosses; the average cost would be Rp 150,000 for
a bull, Rp 50,000 fcir the shed and yard, and Rp 10,000 for veteri-
nary expenses; the farmers entrusted with the bulls would care for
them free of charge for five years, after which the bulls would
become their property; cows would be serviced for a nominal fee;
there should be two bulls per 100 cows within a radius of 1.5 km;



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
(c) providing packages including two cows per subloan in Java and
Lampung, and two or five cows in South Sulawesi;
(d) in Java and Lampung, giving the subloans, as much as possible,
to farmers who would need the cows for draft and fertilizer, as
well as breeding.
14.       The estimated number of cows involved would be as follows:
Year               Total
0/a      1         2        3      (Years 1-3)
Lampung                 425    1,000    1,200    1,800        4,000
South Sulawesi        1,970    3,200    3,800    5,000       12,000
East Java               -       1,500    2,000    3,000       6,500
Central Java            -         -      1,500    3,000       4,500
Yogyakarta              -         -      1,800    2,200       3,000
Total              2,395    5,700    9,300   15,000       30,000
/a DGAH breeding program for 1976/77, for which financing began in
November 1976.
The limiting factor on project size would vary between islands: in Lampung
it would be supply of cattle, in Java primarily availability of feed, and in
South Sulawesi the implementation capacity of DGAH and BRI. The cattle used
would be Ongoles, except for Lampung where Ongole-Bali crosses might be
used. East Java would supply most of the cows for Central Java and Yogyakarta,
in addition to its own needs, and South Sulawesi would supply most of
Lampung as well as itself. Movement of cattle would generally be handled by
private traders, except for interisland shipments to Lampung, which the DG
might have to arrange.
15.       Field Extension Workers (PPLs), under the guidance of Livestock
Extension Specialists (PPSs) would work through farmers' group leaders to
assist the farmers. About 35 PPLs and 5-7 PPSs would be needed for project
subborrowers (one PPL per 300 farmers). The DG Animal Husbandry staff would
have to (a) approve the quality of and pregnancy test the cows to be purchased,
(b) vaccinate the cows as needed, (c) advise the farmers on animal health and
breeding, and on keeping proper records, and (d) assist the farmers with
marketing, if needed. It should be noted that the program would be aimed at
farmers who are interested in and capable of operating a small breeding herd.
Farmers wanting only a single draft animal can obtain finance of up to
Rp 100,000 from BRI's village units under the Mini-credit scheme.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
C. Fisheries
Brackish-Water Fishponds
16.       The finance for brackish-water fishponds would be a follow-up to
the Fisheries Credit Project. The essential elements for improving yields
are: (a) constructing separate nursery and transition ponds within the
fishponds to protect the fry and fingerlings from predators; (b) deepening
the ponds and canals, and adding and improving sluice gates to permit better
control of water levels and salinity; (c) enlarging the dikes, improving
screens and applying pesticide to control predators; and (d) applying fertil-
izer to stimulate growth of blue-green algae as food.
17.       These improvements to the ponds should make it possible and worth-
while for the farmers to concentrate on milkfish monoculture or milkfish/
shrimp mixed culture. The latter is most suitable for South Sulawesi,
where the greater tidal differences permit better water control, and where
the ponds are generally larger and the management better.
18.       Subloan disbursement would be in three tranches.  The first
tranche would be for about ha:lf of the fixed investment; the second, for the
remainder of the fixed investment, after inspection by BRI that the work was
proceeding satisfactorily; the third, for the fry, fertilizer and other
working capital, upon completion of the pond improvement.
I9.       Yields presently average about 100 kg/ha of milkfish and 200 kg/ha
of other fish. Monoculture ponds are expected to reach 600 kg/ha of milkfish,
and mixed culture ponds to yield 250 kg/ha of milkfish and 120 kg/ha of
shrimp.
20.       Under the Fisheries Credit Project, 7,200 ha has been financed
over 18 months, so far. Under the RCP, about 22,000 ha would be financed
over 3 years, divided approximately as follows:
Monoculture         Mixed culture           Total
West Java                 3,500                 500               4,000
Central Java             4,000                1,000               5,000
East Java                4,500                1,000               5,500
South Sulawesi           4,000                3,500               7,500
Total                16,000                6,000              22.000
21.       About 15 additional demonstration ponds would be constructed and
operated by the DG of Fisheries, at least one in each district not included



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
in the Fisheries Credit Project. The average construction cost of the
demonstration ponds would be Rp 670,000 for a 2.5 ha pond for monoculture,
and Rp 840,000 for mixed culture.
Freshwater Fishponds
22.       The project would improve to about 1,500 ha of freshwater fishponds
in West Java, covering Garut, Takismalaya, Bandung, Cianjur and Sukabumi
districts. The DG of Fisheries would set up about five demonstration
ponds, one in each district, to do research and extension, especially on use
of different agricultural wastes and by-products of agricultural processing
as fish food.
23.       The subloans would increase yields by 40% from 2,000 kg/ha to
2,800 kg/ha, while producing higher priced fish so that the average sales
prices rise from about Rp 250/kg to Rp 300/kg. The keys to higher yields are
deepening the ponds, improving the inlet and outlet to ensure proper flow,
and providing adequate feed and fertilizer. These improvements would allow
the farmers to switch from monoculture to polyculture with bottom-, middle-
and surface-feeding fish inhabiting the same ponds but not competing with
each other for feed.
Fishing Boat Motorization
24.       Under the project, about 250 boats along the north coast of Java and
in South Sulawesi would be provided with inboard motors, in a pilot program to
test the appropriateness of this technology. Only a handful of fishing boats
in South Sulawesi have inboard motors, and there has been no monitoring
of the results. The main questions are: (a) performance of outboard vs.
inboard motors in the Java Sea; (b) actual increases in fishing days and
catch from the boats; (c) whether the boats develop new fishing grounds
further from the coast, or merely compete directly with the sailboats; and
(d) the social effect of boat motorization, including the attitude of tradi-
tional fishermen, and possible effects on employment.
Ice Plants
25.       Ten ice plants are projected, with two in West Java (Indramayu and
Sukabumi), three in Central Java (Pemalang, Demak and Rembang), two in
East Java (Lamongan and Situbondo), and three in South Sulawesi (Takalar,
Bone and Singai). All of these would be at ports where DG of Fisheries is
providing other basic infrastucture including wharfs, auction places, storage
and access roads. The ice plants would be operated by fishermen's coopera-
tives where capable and interested cooperatives existed, and by private
entrepreneurs elsewhere. As most fishermen are not used to ice, the plants
might initially sell in large part to other customers.
26.       Procurement of nine ice plants under the Fisheries Credit Project
is now under way. Detailed arrangements for the plants under the RCP will
be based on the experience of these first nine plants. While the average
capacity of the plants under the RCP is expected to be about 5 ton/day, this
may vary depending on local needs.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Table la
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for One Hectare Pepper Planting in Bangka
(Rp '000)
Year       1            2            3             4        Total
Posts /a                        500            -             -            -         500
Sprayer                          1O            -             -            -          10
Fertilizer lb                    40          120           240          240         640
Mulch /c                         40           40            40           40         160
Insecticide /d                    5           10            15           15          45
Fungicide /e                      -            -            25           25          50
Labor /f                        150          150           150          150         600
Land title                        -            5             - 
Subtotal                   745           325          470          470       2,010
Less value of output ]A           -             -            -          320         320
Total investment           745           325          470          150       1,690
Less farmer's
contribution /h                75           75           75            75         300
Loan                            670          250           395           75       1,390
/a 2,000 hardwood posts, at Rp 250 @.
/b 500 kg year 1; 1,500 kg year 2; 3,000 kg years 3 & 4; Rp 80/kg.
/c Grass or leaves; twice a year, Rp 10/vine.
Id Lannate 25% W.P.; 300 gm year 1, 600 gm year 2, 900 gm years 3 & 4;
Rp 16,000/kg.
/e Brestan 60% W.P.; 3 kg/ha firom year 3; Rp 8,200/kg.
/f 400 man-days maintenance years 1-3; 350 man-days maintenance and
50 man-days harvesting year 4.
/g 500 kg dry white pepper; Rp 640/kg.
/h 50% of labor requirement, to be provided in kind; equivalent to 18% of total
investment.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projection For One Hectare Pepper Farm in Banska
(Rp '000)
Before   __            _   _      _____         ___         Year                         _____
project   1      2      3      4     5       6        7       8        9      10-11   12-13   14-15   16-17    18
I. Cash Inflow
Sale of pepper /a                       620      -      -     -   320   640   1,090   1,730   1,920   1,920   1,920   1,790   1,535   1,215   640
Subloan lb                                -   670   250   395    75         -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -     -
Borrower's contribution                   -    75    75    75    75        -        -        - -               -        -        -        -        -     -
Total inflow                         620   745   325   470   470   640   1,090   1,730   L 920   1,920   1,920   1.790   1,535   1,215   640
II. Cash Outflow
Posts                                      -   500      -      -     -      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -     -
Sprayer                                   -    10       -     -      -     -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -     -
Fertilizer                              120    40   120   240   240   240         240      240      240      240      240      240      240      240   240
Mulch                                     20    40    40    40    40    40         40       40       40       40       40       40       40       40    40
Insecticide                                7     5    10    15    15    15         15       15       15       15       15       15       15       15    15
Fungicide                                 10     -      -    25    25    25        25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25    25
Labor /c                                 125   150   150   150   150   150        150      150      150      150      150      150      150      150   150
Land title                                 -     -      5      -     -      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -      -
Subtotal                             282   745   325   470   470   470         470      470     470      470      470      470      470      470   470
Current interest payment                   -     -      -     -      -   151      184      184      123       61        -        -        -        -      -
Capitalized  interest repayment            -     -      -     -      -      -       -      120      120      120        -        -        -        -      -
Principal repayment                        -     -      -     -      -      -       -      463      463      464        -        -        -        -      -
Subtotal                               -      -     -      -      -   151      184      767      706     645         -        -        -       -      -
Total outflow                        282   745   325   470   470   621         654   1,237   1,176   1,115         470      470     470      470   470
III.   Net Cash Flow                              338      -      -     -      -    19      436      493      744      805   1,450   1,320   1,065         745   170
IV.   Financial Benefit/Cost
Incremental income                            (620) (620) (620) (300)   20        470   1,110   1,300   1,300   1,300   1,170           915      595    20
Incremental costs                              463    43   188   188   188        188      188      188      188      188      188      188      188   188
Net benefit                                 (1,083) (663) (808) (488) (168)    282         922   1,112   1,112   1,112         982      727      407  (168)
V.  Financial Rate of Return - 15%
La Pepper production, in kg dry
white pepper:                             1,000     -      _      _   500 1,000   1,700   2,700   3,000   3,000   3,000   2,800   2,400   1,900 1,000
/b  At 10.5% p.a., with a nine-year maturity including a 4-year grace period on interest and 6 years on principal.                                                         1 ix
/c  By Year 6, the labor requirement is 250 man-days maintainance, 150 man-days harvesting.                                                                                 a



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2a
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for One Hectare Pepper Planting in Lampung
(Rp '000)
Year
1     2     3      4     5      6      Total
Sprayer /a                           15      -     -      -     -     -         15
Fertilizer /b                        32    64    96    96    96    96          480
Insecticide LC                        5    10    14    19    19    19           86
Fungicide /d                          -    16    25    33    33    33          140
Labor le                             56    56    56    56    56    56          336
Land title                            -      5     -      -     -      -         5
Subtotal                          108   151   191   204   204   204    -1,062
Less value of output /f               -      -     -      -     -   105        105
Total investment                  108   151   191   204   204    99          957
Less farmer's contribution /g        28    28    28    28    28    28          168
Loan                               80   123   163   176   176    71          789
/a One long-lance sprayer.
/b 400 kg year 1; 800 kg year 2; 1,200 kg thereafter; Rp 80/kg.
/c Lannate 25% W.P.; 300 gm year 1; 600 gm year 2; 900 gm year 3; 1,200 gm
thereafter; Rp 16,000/kg.
/d Brestan 60% W.P.; 2 kg year 2; 3 kg year 3; 4 kg thereafter; Rp 8,200/kg.
/e 150 man-days maintenance years 1-5; 100 man-days maintenance, 50 man-days
harvesting thereafter.
/f 250 kg in year 6; Rp 420/kg for black pepper.
]8 50% of labor requirement, to be provided in kind; equivalent to 18% of
total investment.



INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projection for One Hectare Pepper Farm in Lampun&
(Rp '000)
Before  ___                                                                 Year
project 1      2      3      4     5      6      7      8     9      10      11      12      13-17      18-19       20-21      22-23    24-25
I. Cash Inflow
Sale of pepper /a        260    -       -      -     -      -   105   315   630   735    798    840    840             840        756        672        588        420
Subloan /b                  -   80   123   163   176   176    71         -      -      -       -       -      -          -          -          -           -         -
Borrower's
contribution             -   28    28    28    28    28    28          -      -      -       -      -       -         -           -          -          -          -
Total inflow          260  108   151   191   204   204   204   315   630   735    798    840    840                840         756        672        588       420
II. Cash Outflow
Sprayer                     -   15      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -       -       -      -          -          -          -           -         -
Fertilizer                 32   32    64    96    96    96    96    96    96    96            96      96     96         96         96         96          96        96
Insecticide                 7    5    10    14    19    19    19    19    19    19            19      19      19        19         19         19          19        19
Fungicide                  10    -    16    25    33    33    33    33    33    33            33      33      33        33         33          33         33        33
Labor                      40   56    56    56    56    56    56    56    56    56            56      56      56        56         56         56          56        56
Land title                  -    -      5      -     -      -      -      -     -      -       -       -       -         -          -           -          -         -
Subtotal               89  108   151   191   204   204   204   204   204   204    204    204    204                204        204         204        204       204
Current interest
payment                  -    -       -     -      -      -      -   107   107   107        80     53      27          -          -          -           -         -
Capitalized interest
repayment                -    -       -     -      -      -      -     -    -       56     57      56      57         -           -          -           -         -
Principal repayment         -    -      -      -     -      -      -      -    -    197    197    197    198             -          -           -          -         -
Subtotal                -    -      -      -      -      -     -   107   107   360    334    306    282              -           -          -          -         -
Total outflow          89  108   151   191   204   204   204   311   311   564    538    510    486                204         204        204        204       204
III.   Net Cash Flow                171    -      -      -     -      -      -      4   319   171    260    330    354           636        552        468         384       216
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Incremental benefits           (260) (260) (260) (260) (260) (155)   55   370   475    538    580    580                580        496        412         328       160
Incremental costs                19    62   102   115   115   115   115   115   115    115    115    115                115        115         115        115       115
Net benefit                    (279) (322) (362) (375) (375) (375)  (60)  255   360    423    465    465                465        381         297        213        45
V. Financial Rate of Return - 12%
/a  Pepper production, in kg dry
black pepper:                650    -      -      -      -      -   250   750 1,500 1,750  1,900  2,000  2,000    2,000            1,800       1,600      1,400    1,000
/b  At 10.5% p.a., with a 12-year maturity including a 6-year grace period on interest and 8 years on principal.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3a
INDONESIA
RIJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost For One Hectare /a Coffee Deep-pruning (Lampung)
Year
1        2         3         4     Total
Output foregone /b                       50        41        67       55        213
Sprayer /c                               15         -        -         -         15
Fertilizer /d                             6         8        20       24         58
Insecticide /e                            2         5       12        14         33
Fungicide /f                              2         3         7        8         20
Labor /g                                  3         2         6        6         17
Land title                                5         -         -        -          5
Subtotal                           83        59       112       107       361
Less value of output /h                   -         -        42       59        101
Total investment                    83       59        70        48        260
Less farmer's contributions /i           53        43        31        6        133
Loan                                30       16        39        42        127
/a Assumes 1/4 ha deep-pruned in year 1, 1/4 ha in year 3, 1/4 ha in year 5.
/b 100 kg/1/4 ha in year 1, declining by 10 kg/l/4 ha per year.
/c Long-lance, knapsack sprayer.
/d For each 1/4 ha, 80 kg in year of pruning, 100 kg following year,
170 kg the third year, and 200 kg thereafter; Rp 80/kg.
/e Lannate 25% W.P. for each 1/4 ha, 150 gm in year of pruning,
300 gm following year, and 600 gm thereafter; Rp 16,000 kg.
/f Dithane M45; for each 1/4 ha, 1 kg in year of pruning, 1.5 kg following
year, 2 kg thereafter; Rp 2,275/kg.
/g Incremental labor required based on 10 man-days/ha for stumping,
10 man-days/ha for fertilizing, 20 man-days/ha incremental maintenance,
and 1 man-day/40 kg harvesting; Rp 380/man-day.
/h First yield 3 years after pruning is 100 kg/l/4 ha, and 150 kg/l/4 ha
following year; Rp 400/kg.
/i Labor plus part of net output foregone; equivalent to 51% of total
investment cost.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3b
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Proiection for One Hectare Coffee Farm (Lampunz) - Rejuvenation of Existing Plantation
(Rp '000)
Year
1     2      3      4       5       6       7      8      9    10    11, 13          12, 14
15, 17, 19   16, 18, 20
I. Cash Inflow
Coffee from unstumped bushes La 150   124    67    55            22      17       -       -      -      -        -            -
Coffee from stumped bushes /a         -      -    42    59    144    149    231    248   231   248             231          248
Subloan Lb                           30    16    39    42         -       -       -       -      -      -        -            -
Total inflow                  180   140   148   156    166    166    231    248   231   248              231          248
II. Cash Outflow
Sprayer                              15      -      -     -       -       -       -       -      -      -        -            -
Fertilizer                            6      8    20    24       36      40      52      56    52    56         52           56
Insecticide                           2      5    12    14       22      24      31      34    26    34         31           34
Fungicide                             2      3      7      8     11      12      16      15    17    16         17           16
Labor                                14    13    17    16        21      21      26      26    26    26         26           26
Land title                            5      -      -     -       -       -       -       -      -      -        -            -
Subtotal                       44    29    56    62        90      97    125    131   121   132          126          132
Interest payment                     -       3      5     9      13      13      13       9      4      -        -            -
Principal repayment                  -       -      -      -      -       -      42      43    42       -        -            _
Subtotal                       -       3      5      9      13      13     55      52    46       -        -            -
Total outflow                  44    32    61    71    103    110    180    183   167   132              126           132
III.  Net Cash Flow                          136   108    87    85        63      56      51      65    64   116        105          116
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Output with project /L              150   124   109   114    166    166    231    248   231   248              231          248
Output without project La           200   166   134   109        86      66      53      40    26    13          -            -
Incremental output                  (50)  (42)  (25)       5     80    100    178    208   205   235           231          248
Cost with project                    44    29    56    62        90      97    125    131   121   132          126          132
Cost without project                 12    11       9      8       7      6       4       3      2      1        -            -
Incremental cost                     32    18    47    54        83      91    121    128   119   131          126          132
Net benefits                        (82)  (60)  (72)  (49)        (3)     9      57      80    86   104        105          116
V. Financial Rate of Return - 18X
/a Based on the assumptions:
Price (Rp/kg)                         500   460   420   390    360    330    330    330   330   330              330           330
Area unstumped (ha)                   3/4   3/4   1/2   1/2    1/4    1/4          -       -      -      -         -             -
Kg/ha unstumped                       400   360   320   280    240    200    160    120    80    40                -             -
Kg/ha after stumping                    -      -   400   600  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200  re-stump
/b  At 10.5% interest p.a., with a 9-year maturity including a grace period of six years on principal.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4a
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for Cattle Breeding Packages
(Rp'OOO)
Lampung    South Sulawesi /a  Java
Two cows                              180           150 /b          150
Plow                                   20            20              20
Shed or yard improvement /c            10            10              10
Supplementary feed /d                   7             5               7
Veterinary expenses                     4             4               4
Miscellaneous                           4             4               4
Loan insurance /e                      17            14              17
Labor /f                                8             4              10
Total Investment                 250           211             222
Less borrower's contribution IR        25            21              22
Loan                                  225           190             200
/a  For comparative purposes, shown for package of two cows; however,
the existing KIK package of five cows may be retained in South
Sulawesi.
/b If Bali cows purchased, the cost is Rp 110,000.
/c In Java all animals are housed and fed by "cut and carry"
method. In Sulawesi it is all open grazing and animals are
yarded at night. In Lampung it is mixed.
/d Strictly supplementary feeding only. Could cover working period,
calving period or end of dry season. Calculation 0.2 kg rice
bran per breeder per day for 60 days per year. Rp 30 per kilo
(Rp 20 in South Sulawesi). First three years only.
/e  This insurance is taken out with P.T. Askrindo.  Covers repayment
of debt only. Does not cover the life of the animal.
/f  Twenty-five man-days in Java, 20 man-days in Lampung, 10 man-days
in South Sulawesi; at Rp 380/man-days (see note lb for explanation
of differences.
/g Ten percent of investment.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4b
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for Cattle Breeding Package in South Sulawesi /a
(Rp '000)
Residual
Year                         value of
1     2      3      4     5      6      7     8       herd
I.  Cash Inflow
Sale of cattle/b                     -      -      -    55    75    75    55    75          250
Sale or use of manure                3      7      9    10    10    10    10    10            -
Hiring or use of
draft animal                       5    15    15    15    15    15    15    15              -
Subloan /c                         190      -      -     -      -      -     -      -         -
Borrower's contribution             21      -      -     -      -      -     -      -         -
Total inflow                  219    22    24    80   100   100    80   100           250
II. Cash outflow
Two cows                           150      -      -     -      -      -     -      -         -
Plough                              20      -      -     -      -      -     -      -         -
Yard improvement                     10     -      -     -      -      -     -      -         -
Supplementary feed                   5      5      5     5      5      5     5      5         -
Veterinary expenses                  4      4      4     4      4      4     4      4         -
Miscellaneous                         4     3      3      3     3      3      3     3         -
Loan insurance                      14      -      -     -      -      -     -      -         _
Labor                                4      8      8     8      8      8     8      8         -
Subtotal                      211    20    20    20    20    20    20    20            20
Interest payment                     -      -      -    24    20    15    10        5         -
Capitalized interest repayment    -         -      -     8      8      8     9      9         -
Principal repayment                  -      -      -    38    38    38    38    38            -
Subtotal                        -     -      -    70    66    61    57    52            -
Total outflow                 211    20    20    90    86    81    77    72              -
III.  Net Cash Flow                           8      2      4   (10)   14    19       3    28        250
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefits                             8    22    24    80   100   100    80   100            250
Costs                              211    20    20    20    20    20    20    20
Net benefits                      (203)     2      4    60    80    80    60    80          250
V. Financial Rate of Return - 21%
/a  Shown for package of two cows; however, the existing KIK package of five cows may be
retained.
/b See Table 4e
/c At 10.5% interest p.a., with a maturity of 8 years including a 3-year grace period
on interst and principal.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4c
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for Cattle Breeding Package in Lampung
(Rp '000)
Residual
Year                          value of
1     2      3      4      5     6      7      8      herd
I. Cash Inflow
Sale of cattle/a                      -     -      -    60    90    90    60    90           300
Sale or use of manure                 5    14    17    20    20    20    20    20              -
Hiring or use of
draft animal                        5    20    20    20    20    20    20    20              -
Subloan /b                          225     -      -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Borrower's contribution              25      -     -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Total inflow                  260    34    37   100   130   130   100   130            300
II. Cash outflow
Two cows                            180      -     -      -      -      -     -      -         -
Plough                               20      -     -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Shed or yard improvement             10     -      -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Supplementary feed                    7      7     7      7      7      7     7      7         -
Veterinary expenses                   4      4     4      4      4      4     4      4         -
Miscellaneous                         4      4     4      4      4      4     4      4         -
Loan insurance                       17      -     -      -      -      -     -      -         -
Labor                                 8    16    16    16    16    16    16    16              -
Subtotal                      250    31    31    31    31    31    31    31              -
Interest payment                      -     -      -    29    29    22    14         7         -
Capitalized interest repayment    -          -     -      -    13    12    13    12            -
Principal repayment                   -      -     -      -    56    57    56    56            -
Subtotal                        -      -      -    29    98    91    83    75            -
Total outflow                 250    31    31    60   129   122   114   106               -
III.  Net Cash Flow                           10      3     6    40       1      8   (14)   24        300
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefits                             10    34    37   100   130   130   100   130            300
Costs                               250    31    31    31    31    31    31    31
Net benefits                       (240)     3      6    69    99    99    69    99          300
V. Financial Rate of Return - 21%
/a See Table 4e.
/b At 10.5% interest p.a., with an 8-year maturity including a grace period of 4 years.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4d
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for Cattle Breeding Package in Java
(Rp '000)
Residual
Year                          value of
1     2      3      4      5     6      7      8      herd
I.  Cash Inflow
Sale of cattle/a                      -      -     -    75    75    75    75    75           285
Sale or use of manure                 5    14    17    20    20    20    20    20              -
Hiring or use of
draft animal                        5    20    20    20    20    20    20    20              -
Subloan /b                          200     -      -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Borrower's contribution              22      -     -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Total inflow                  232    34    37   115   115   115   115   115            285
II. Cash outflow
Two cows                            150      -     -      -      -      -     -      -         -
Plough                               20      -     -      -      -      -     -      -         -
Shed improvement                     10      -     -      -      -     -      -      -         -
Supplementary feed                    7      7     7      7      7      7     7      7         -
Veterinary expenses                   4      4     4      4      4      4     4      4         -
Miscellaneous                         4      4     4      4      4      4     4      4         -
Loan insurance                       17      -     -      -      -      -     -      -         -
Labor                                10    20    20    20    20    20    20    20              -
Subtotal                      222    35    35    35    35    35    35    35              -
Interest payment                      -     -      -    26    20    15    10         5         -
Capitalized interest repayment    -          -     -      8      9      9     9      9         -
Principal repayment                   -      -     -    40    40    40    40    40             -
Subtotal                        -      -      -    74    69    64    59    54            -
Total outflow                 222    35    35   109   104    99    94    89              -
III.  Net Cash Flow                           10    (1)    2       6    11    16    21    26          285
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefits                             10    34    37   115   115   115   115   115            285
Costs                               222    35    35    35    35    35    35    35
Net benefits                       (212)   (3)   (1)   80    80    80    80    80            285
V. Financial Rate of Return - 21%
/a See Table 4e.
/b At 10.5% interest p.a., with a maturity of 8 years including a 3-year grace period.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4e
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Herd Proiections
(No. of animals at year's end)
Year
1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8
Breeders                                 2     2     2      3     2     2      2     2
2-year old Heifers                                   1            1            1
1 year old Heifers                             1            1           1            1
Heifer weaners                           1            1           1            1
Bulls, 1 year and older                              1            1     1      1     1
Bull weaners                                   1            1           1            1
Total herd                         3      4     5     5      5     5     5      5
Cows sold                                                         1     1
Bulls sold                                                  1                  1



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5a
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for One Hectare
Brackish Water Fishpond
(Rp '000)
Milkfish                  Milkfish and shrimp
monoculture                   mixed culture
Fixed Investment
Main gate                                              25      |                         25
Small gates                                            25      |                         25
Bamboo screens                                         15      |                         15
Dikes, ditches and canals /a                          100      |                         120
Miscellaneous                                           5                                  5
Subtotal                                         170                               190
With    Without               | With    Without
prolect  prolect  Incrementall project  project  Incremental
Working capital /b                                               |
Fry - milkfish                     35 /c    20         15      |    20 /d    20           -
- shrimp                        -                               54 /e                54
Fertilizer - organic /f             5                   5      I     6                    6
- inorganic g,          2                    2     I     2                     2
Rice bran /h                        1                   2      |     3                     3
Pesticide /i                        5                   5            5                    5
Maintenance labor 7                10         5         5      |    13         5          8
Subtotal                     58        25         34      I   103       25          78
Total                                            204      i                        268
Less Borrower's contribution                             20      I                          27
Loan                                                    184      |                        241
/a  400 cu m for monoculture, 480 cu m for mixed culture; Rp 250/cu m for labor.
/b 12 months' supply of fry; 6 months' of other inputs.
/c 5-7,000 fry, at Rp 5-7 @.
/d 1,000 fingerlings, at Rp 20 @.
/e 9,000 fry, at Rp 6 @.
/f Rp 15/kg.
la Rp 70/kg.
/h Rp 20/kg.
/i Rp 10,000/kg.
11 Rp 400/man-day.



- 84 -                                                ANNEX 4
Table Sb
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for One Hectare Brackish Water Fishpond Monoculture
(Rp '000)
Before                                Year
project      1      2     3      4      5     6      7      8    9-15
I. Cash Inflow /a
Sale of milkfish                           40         85   170   200   240   240   240   240   240          240
Sale of other fish                         60         30      -     -      -      -     -      -      -        -
Loan - Fixed investment /b                  -        153      -      -     -      -      -     -      -        -
- Working capital  /c                 -          31     -      -      -     -      -      -     -        -
Total inflow                         100        299   170   200   240   240   240   240   240           240
II. Cash Outflow
Fixed investment                            -        170
Operating costs:
Fry                                      20         35    35    35    35    35    35    35    35           35
Fertilizers                               -         13    13    13    13    13    13    13    13           13
Rice bran                                 -          2      2     2      2      2     2      2      2        2
Pesticide                                 -         10    10    10    10    10    10    10    10           10
Maintenance                              10         20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20           20
Subtotal                              30          80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80           80
Interest payment:
- Fixed investment loan                   -          -    16    16    16    13    10         7      3       -
- Working capital loan                    -          -      4     4      3      2     1      1      -       -
Principal repayment
- Fixed investment loan                   -          -      -     -    30    31    30    31    31           -
- Working capital loan                    -          -      -     6      6      7     6      6      -       -
Subtotal                                           -    20    26    55    53    47    45    34            -
Total outflow                          30        250   100   106   135   133   127   125   114           80
III.  Net Cash Flow                                 70         49    70    94   105   107   113   115   126          160
IV. Benefit/Cost
Incremental benefits                        -         15    70   100   140   140   140   140   140          140
Incremental costs                           -        220    50    50    50    50    50    50    50           50
Net benefits                                -       (195)   20    50    90    90    90    90    90            90
V. Financial Rate of Return - 33%
la Production build up to 600 kg/ha, selling at Rp 400/kg ex-pond
/b At 10.5% interest p.a., with a maturity of eight years including three years grace on principal.
/c At 152 interest p.a., with a maturity of seven years including a grace period of two years.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5c
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for One Hectare Brackish Water Fishpond Mixed Culture
(Rp '000)
Before                             Year
project      1     2      3     4      5     6      7      8-15
I. Cash Inflow
Sale of shrimp  /a                         -         60   170   200   240   240   240   240          240
Sale of milkfish /b                       40         50    70    85   100   100   100   100          100
Sale of other fish                        60         30      -     -      -     -      -     -         -
Loan - Fixed investment /c                 -        171      -     -      -      -     -      -        -
- Working capital /d                  -         70     -      -     -      -     -      -         -
Total inflow                         100        381   240   285   340   340   340   340          340
II. Cash Outflow
Fixed investment                           -        190      -     -      -     -      -      -        -
Operating costs:
Shrimp fry                                         54    54    54    54    54    54    54           54
Milkfish fingerlings                    20         20    20    20    20    20    20    20           20
Fertilizers                              -         15    15    15    15    15    15    15           15
Rice bran                                -          5      5     5      5     5      5      5        5
Pesticide                                -         10    10    10    10    10    10    10           10
Maintenance                             10         26    26    26    26    26    26    26           26
Subtotal                              30        130   130   130   130   130   130   130          130
Interest payment:
- Fixed investment loan                  -          -    18    18    18    13        9     5         -
- Working capital loan                   -          -      8     8      6     6      4     2         -
Principal repayment
- Fixed investment loan                  -          -      -     -    43    43    42    43           -
- Working capital loan                   -          -      -    18    17    18    17       -         -
Subtotal                               -          -    26    44    84    78    70    48            -
Total outflow                         30        320   156   174   214   208   200   178          130
III.  Net Cash Flow                                70         61    84   111   126   132   140   162          210
IV. Benefit/Cost
Incremental benefits                       -         40   140   185   240   240   240   240          240
Incremental costs                          -        290   100   100   100   100   100   100          100
Net benefits                               -       (250)   40    85   140   140   140   140           140
V. Financial Rate of Return - 40%
/a Production build up to 120 kg/ha shrimp, selling at Rp 2,000/kg ex-pond.
/b Production build up to 250 kg/ha milkfish, selling at Rp 400/kg ex-pond.
/c At 10.5% interest p.a., with a maturity of seven years including three years grace on principal.
/d At 12% interest p.a., with a maturity of six years including two years grace on principal.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6a
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for One Hectare
Freshwater Fishpond
(Rp '000)
Fixed Investmetit
Pond inlet                                                                   50
Pond outlet                                                                  75
Pond deepening and dike construction /a                                     200
Gill net and scoop net                                                       25
Subtotal                                                              350
With      Without
project    proiect    Incremental
Working Capital /b
Fingerlings /c                                    100         100             -
Fertilizer /d                                      15           8             7
Rice bran /e                                        3           1             2
Repair of dikes and inlet/outlet                    5           -             5
Supervision and feeding /f                         40          16            24
Subtotal                                     163         125           38
Total investment                                                       388
Less Borrower's contribution                                                   38
Loan                                                                          350
/a Rp 500/cu m.
/b 6 months' (one crop) supply.
/c 20,000, at Rp 5 @.
/d Organic fertilizer 1,000 kg/ha, at Rp 15/kg.
/e 125 kg/ha, at Rp 25/kg.
/f  100 man-days x Rp 400/man-day.



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6b
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for One Hectare Freshwater Fishpond
(Rp '000)
Before                         Year
project     1      2     3      4      5      6   7-15
I.  Cash Inflow
Sale of fish /a                           500        500   700   750   800   840   840   840
Loan /b                                      -        350     -      -      -      -     -      -
Total inflow                          500        850   700   750   800   840   840   840
II. Cash Outflow
Fixed investment                            -         350     -      -      -      -     -      -
Operating costs:
Fingerlings                             200        200   200   200   200   200   200   200
Fertilizers                              15         30    30    30    30    30    30    30
Rice bran                                 3           6     6      6      6     6      6      6
Repair                                    -         10    10    10    10    10    10    10
Supervision and feeding                  32         80    80    80    80    80    80    80
Subtotal                          250        326   326   326   326   326   326   326
Interest payment                            -           -    37    29    22    15        7      -
Principal repayment                         -           -    70    70    70    70    70         -
Subtotal                                -          -   107    99    92    85    77         -
Total outflow                         250        676   433   425   418   411   403   328
III.  Net Cash Flow                                250         174   267   325   382   429   437   512
IV. Benefit/Cost
Incremental benefits                        -           -   200   250   300   340   340   340
Incremental costs                           -        426    76    76    76    76    76    76
Net benefits                                 -       (426)  124   174   224   264   264   264
V. Financial Rate of Return - 45X
/a Before project: 2,000 kg at Rp 250/kg; by Year 5, 2,800 kg at Rp 300/kg.
/b At 10.5% interest p.a., with a maturity of six years.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7a
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for Boat Motorization
(Rp '000)
Purchase of inboard motor, 7-12 HP       720
Motor installation                        80
Total investment                    800
Less Borrower's contribution             160
Loan                                     640



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7b
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT.
Cash Flow for Boat Motorization
(Rp '000)
Pre-                                       Year
project      IL /a    2       3      4       5       6       7      8      9-10
I.  Cash Inflow
Sale of fish /b                           641        913  1,186  1,186  1,186  1,186  1,186  1,186  1,186    1,186
Loan /c                                     -        640       -       -       -      -       -       -      -          -
Total inflow                        641      1,553  1,186  1.186  1,186  1,186  1,186  1,186  1.186    1,186
II. Cash Outflow
Investment                                  -        800       -       -      -       -       -       -      -         -
Fuel Id                                     -         50    100    100    100    100    100    100    100            100
Oil                                         -          5      10      10      10     10      10      10      10       10
Crew salaries and food le                 315        370    420    420    420    420    420    420    420            420
Repair                                     50        100    150    150    150    150    150    150    150            150
Subtotal                            365      1,325    680    680    680    680    680    680    680             680
Interest payment                            -          -      67      58     48      38      29      19      10        -
Principal repayment                         -          -      91      92     91      92      91      92      91         _
Subtotal                              -           -    158    150    139    130    120    111    101              -
Total outflow                       365      1,325    838    830    819    810    800    791    781             680
III.  Net Cash Flow                                276        228    348    356    367    376    386    395    405            506
IV.  Benefit/Cost
Incremental benefits                        -        272    545    545    545    545    545    545    545            545
Incremental costs                           -        960    315    315    315    315    315    315    315            315
Net benefits                                -       (688)   230    230    230    230    230    230    230            230
V. Financial Rate of Return - 302
/a  Engine installed in middle of year.
/b  At 10.51 interest p.a., with a maturity of eight years.
/c  Preproject:  30 kg/day, 150 working days, Rp 150/kg, less 5% auction fee.
With engine:  39 kg/day, 200 working days, Rp 160/kg, less 51 auction fee.
/d  10 HP motor, operating 2,000 hours.
/e  Seven crew, 200 days, Rp 300/day.



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8a
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Investment Cost for Five-Ton Ice Plant
(Rp '000,000)
Ice machine                             25.0
Diesel generator                         5.5
Building                                 3.5
Water supply                             3.5
Total investment                  37.5
Less Borrower's contribution la          5.6
Loan                                    31.9
/a 15% of investment.



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8b
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow for Five-Ton Ice Plant
(Rp million)
Year
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9      10      11    12-15
I.  Cash Inflow
Sale of ice /a                     -   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    12.0
Loan /b                         31.9        -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -        -
Borrower's contribution          5.6       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -        -
Total inflow               37.5   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    12.0
II. Cash Outflow
Investment                      37.5       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -        -
Ammonia                             -    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1              0.1
Generator power/fuel                -    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9              0.9
Insurance                           -    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4              0.4
Maintenance and repair              -    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4              0.4
Overheads                           -    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2              0.2
Skilled labor                       -    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4              0.4
Unskilled labor                     -    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7              0.7
Subtotal                    -    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1              3.1
Interest payment                    -    3.3    3.0    2.6    2.2    1.8    1.4    1.0    0.6    0.2             -         -
Principal repayment                 -    3.8    3.7    3.8    3.7    3.8    3.7    3.8    3.7    1.9             -         -
Total outflow               -   10.2    9.8    9.5    9.0    8.7    8.2    7.9    7.4    5.2    3.1              3.1
III.  Net Cash Flow                          -    1.3    1.8    2.1    2.5    2.8    3.3    3.6    4.1    4.3    4.8              8.9
IV. Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefits                            -   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    12.0
Costs                           37.5    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1               3.1
Net benefits                   (37.5)   8.9   *8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9    8.9               8.9
V.  Financial Rate of Return - 22%
la 300 days x 5 tons/day x Rp 8,000/ton.
/b At 10.5% p.a., with a maturity of ten years.



- 92 -
ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Subloan CateRories
1.        For all subloan categories, the economic analysis is generally
similar to the financial analysis. The primary changes involved are adjust-
ments from financial prices to economic prices, specifically:
(a) the opportunity cost (shadow price) of US$1.00 of foreign exchange
is estimated at Rp 520 or 25% above the official exchange rate;
(b) the opportunity cost: (shadow price) of unskilled labor is estimated
to range by location from Rp 150-200 per man-day, or 50% of the
going wage,/l and of skilled labor to be 75% of the going wage;
(c) the economic prices for rice and balanced NPK fertilizer is the
projected import-parity price of Rp 100/kg, compared to the
present Indonesia price of Rp 80/kg.
It should be noted that these figures are only approximations, and the actual
economic prices under (b) and (c) will vary between geographic areas. The
other economic prices equal the financial prices, and are based on current
Indonesian prices, except for coffee, where the projected export-parity price
is used. The net effect of these adjustments is to change the rates of
return for most categories only marginally.
2.        The boat motorization category would be a pilot effort, aimed
largely at determining the extent to which the motorized boats would develop
new fishing grounds, make fuller use of existing but under-exploited fishing
grounds, or compete with sailboats in fully-exploited areas, and thus partially
displace the latter. In the economic rate of return calculation, it is
assured that 10% of the catch would be at the expense of other fishermen, and
thus not an economic benefit.
3.        For cattle breeding, the financial analysis provides a basis for
the economic analysis insofar as the purchase price of cows is a good reflec-
tion of their economic value (i.e., their opportunity cost in nonproject
uses). Were the necessary data available, this assumption should be probed
by examining carefully the "without" situation - e.g., what would be the
slaughter rate, breeding rate, draft and manure output, etc., of the cows if
they were not purchased for the project. However, adequate data for this
are not available.
4.        The estimated overall economic rate of return for the project is
27% (see text, para. 7.07).
/1 Based on analyses done in the appraisal of the Indonesia Irrigation
Project VII (Report No. 1035b-IND, April 28, 1976, Annex 12).



nDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return for Perennial Crops
(Rp0oo)
Year
1       2       3       4       5      6       7        8       9       10      11      12      13     14      15    16        17     18      19      20      21      22      23      24      25
Pepper - Banka
Incresental benefits              (620)  (620)  (620)  (300)    20    470   1,110   1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,170  1,170    915    915    595    595                   20
Incremental costs /s              (252)  (252)  (252)  (252)   203    203          203      203    203    203    203    203    203    203    203    203    203    203
Investment cost /b                 741    307    494    494          -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -
Net economic benefits           (L.1O9)  (75)  (62)  (42)  (183)   267             907   1.097  1.097  1.097  1.097    967    967    712    712    392    392  (83)
Economic rate of return - 14X
Pepper - Laspuna
Incremental benefits              (260)  (260)  (260)  (260)  (260)  (155)          55      370    475    538    580    580    580    580    580    580    580   496    496    412    412    328    328    160    160
Incremental costs /a                (77)   (77)   (77)   (77)   (77)   (77)    123          123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123    123
Investment cost /b                  97    151    203    217    217    217             -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Net economic benefits              (280)  (334)  (386)  (400)  (400)  (295)    (68)    247    352    415    457    457    457    457    457    457    457   373    373    289    289    205    205                         37      37
Economic rate .of return - 12X
Coffee
Benefits with project /c            107     88      78      82    119    119        165      177    165    177    165    177    165    177    165    177    165   177             165    177
Benefits without project /c        143    119       96      78      62      47       38      29      19       9       -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -
Incremental benefits                (36)   (31)   (18)       4      57      72      127     148    146    168    165    177    165    177    165    177    165   177              165    177
Costs with project /a                 5       5      5       5      80      27      112      118    108    119    113    119    113    119    113    119    113   119             113    119
Costs without project /a              6       5      4       4       3       3        2        2       1      1       -       -       -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Incremental costs                    (1)     -       I       1      77      84      110      116    107    118    113    119    113    119    113    119    113   119    113    119
Investment cost /b                   38     22      53      61           -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -          -       -       -
Net economic benefits               (73)   (53)   (72)   (58)   (20)   (12)          17       32     39      50      52      58      52      58     52      58      52    58       52      58
Economic rate of return - 14X
/a  Adjusted to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor  nd the import-parity price of fertilizer.
1k Adjusted to reflect the opportunity cost of foreign exchange (US$1.00 - Rp 520) on the foreign exchange portion of the investment cost, the shadow
price of labor and the import-parity price of fertilizer.
/c Export-parity price of coffee, US$0.77/lb.



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return for Cattle Breeding
(Rp'00)
Year
1      2    3    4       5     6      7     8       9
Java
Incremental benefits        10    34   37   115   115   115   115   115
Incremental costs /a        20    25   25    25    25    25    25    25
Investment cost /a         197      -    -      -     -      -     -      -   (285)
Net economic benefits   (207)    9   12    90    90    90    90    90    285
Economic rate of return - 26%
Lampung
Incremental benefits        10    34   37   100   130   130   100   130
Incremental costs /a        19    23   23    23    23    23    23    23
Investment cost /a         227      -    -      -     -      -     -      -   (300)
Net economic benefits   (236)   11   14    77   107   107    77   107    300
Economic rate of return - 24%
South Sulawesi
Incremental benefits         8    22   24    80   100   100    80   100
Incremental costs /a        15    16   16    16    16    16    16    16
Investment cost /a         194      -    -      -     -      -     -      -   (250)
Net economic benefits   (201)    6    8    64    84    84    64    84    250
Economic rate of return - 23%
/a Opportunity cost of labor: 50% of amounts shown for labor in Tables 5b, 5c
and 5d of Annex 4.



- 95 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return for One Hectare Fishponds
(Rp'OOO)
Year
1         2         3         4        5-15
Brackish water - monoculture
Incremental benefits              15         70       100       140        140
Incremental costs /a              45         45        45        45         45
Investment cost /b               171          -         -         -          -
Net economic benefits           (201)        25        55        95         95
Economic rate of return - 34%
Brackish water - mixed culture
Incremental benefits              40        140       185       240       240
Incremental costs /b              92         92        92        92         92
Investment cost /c               191          -         -         -          -
Net economic benefits           (243)        48        93       148        148
Economic rate of return - 43%
Fresh water
Incremental benefits               -        200       250       300        340
Incremental costs /b              52         52        52        52         52
Investment cost /c               350          -         -         -          -
Net economic benefits           (402)       148       198       248        288
Economic rate of return - 53%
/a Adjusted for opportunity cost of labor.
/b Adjusted for both opportunity cost of labor and of foreign exchange.



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return - Fishing Boat Motorization
(Rp'000)
Year
1                 2-10
Case A: No competition with existing
fishing boats
Incremental benefits                                  272                  545
Incremental costs /a                                   146                 289
Investment cost /b                                    942                    -
Net economic benefits                                 (816)                256
Economic rate of return - 28%
Case B: 10% of the catch taken away
from existing fishing boats
Incremental benefits /c                               181                  426
Incremental costs /b                                   146                 289
Investment cost /c                                    942                    -
Net economic benefits                                 (907)                137
Economic rate of return - 7%
/a Shadow cost for labor: 75% of crew's wage rate.
/b Foreign exchange component of total investment cost: 70%, to which the
opportunity cost of foreign exchange was applied (US$1.00 = Rp 520).
/c Incremental benefits reduced by 10% of fish catch value.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return - Five-ton Ice Plant
(Rp million)
Year
1                  2-10
Incremental benefits                         -                   12.0
Incremental costs /a                         -                   2.7
Investment costs /b                        44.6                   -
Net economic benefit                      (44.6)                  9.3
Economic rate of return - 20X
La  Shadow price for skilled labor:  75% of going wage rate; and
for unskilled labor: 50%.
/b  Foreign exchange component of total investment cost is 68%,
to which the opportunity cost of foreign exchange was applied
(US$1.00 - Rp 520).



- 98 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
RUTRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Term Lending Consultancy - Draft Terms of Reference
General
1.        It is estimated that about eight resident consultants, plus several
short-term assignments, would be required to strengthen BRI's term-lending
operations and assist in implementation of both the Rural Credit Project
(RCP) and other medium- and long-term lending programs. The consultants in
BRI's regional offices would work exclusively within the project area of the
RCP (East, Central and West Java, Yogyakarta, South Sulawesi, South Sumatra
and Lampung). The consultants in BRI's head office would give priority to
lending in the project areas, but would also assist BRI in broader aspects of
its term-lending program. Of the eight consultants there would be one economist,
one training specialist, three development bankers and three agricultural
experts. BRI would give strong preference to proposals that included at
least three qualified individual Indonesian consultants, especially for the
agricultural positions. One of the consultants would be designated team
leader, and would handle administrative matters with BRI concerning the
consultancy. The team leader would meet with BRI's President Director and
Board of Directors on a regular basis. The position of senior development
banker in BRI's Investment Credit Bureau would be the most suitable one for
team leader. However, on all operational matters, the individual consultants
would be responsible to BRI through their respective bureau heads or regional
managers. Each consultant would work closely with one or more counterparts
at the department-head level, as well as with more junior staff, and should
give high priority to the traLning of those people. All the consultants
should be willing and able to travel extensively in Indonesia. The training
specialist and the consultants to be stationed in BRI's regional offices
would be expected to have or to acquire a working knowledge of spoken
Indonesian before commencement of, or early in, their assignments, and the
other consultants to obtain such knowledge within their first year. BRI
would help arrange for intensive language training in Jakarta as required,
but the training would be at the consulting firm's expense. In addition,
the consulting firm might be called upon to provide short-term consultancy to
BRI on more specialized matters; however, the amount and cost of this would
not be specified in the original contract, but would be agreed from time to
time as required.
2.        The estimated consuLtancy need is as follows:



- 99 -
Annex 6
Page 2
Position                        Location                 Duration
1.  Program Development Economist        Planning Bureau              2 years
2.  Training Specialist                  Education Bureau             1-1/2 years
3.  Senior Development Banker            Investment Credit Bureau    2-1/2 years
4.  Development Banker                  Regional Offices, South
Sumatra/Lampung and
West Java                  2 years
5.  Development Banker                   Regional Offices, South
Sulawesi, Central and
East Java and Yogyakarta  2 years
6.  Perennial-Crops Specialist            Regional Office, South
Sumatra/Lampung, and
Planning Bureau           2 years
7.  Fisheries Specialist                  Planning Bureau             2 years
8.  Livestock Specialist                  Planning Bureau             2 years
16 years
3.        At BRI's head office, the units most involved in the RCP would be
the Project Aid Department of the Investment Credit Bureau which would
supervise implementation of the lending program, the Education Bureau which
would handle the training, and the newly-created Program Development Department
(PDD) of the Planning Bureau. The PDD would be staffed primarily with econ-
omists and experts in the various subsectors for which programs exist or
would be developed under the RCP or other term-lending programs (fisheries,
livestock, perennial crops, annual crops, small industry, marketing, agricul-
tural processing). The PDD's major functions would be:
(a) preparation of annual lending programs for all RCP and other
term-lending subloan categories; these programs would specify,
inter alia, the amount of lending proposed by province, which BRI
branches would be participating, and what technical support would
be available from the Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) identification, preparation and appraisal of new subloan categories
for lending under the RCP, or other term-lending programs, in close
cooperation with BI;



- 100 -
Annex 6
Page 3
(c)  preparation of teclnical and financial guidelines on these various
categories, to be incorporated as supplements to BRI's procedures
manual for small term-lending; and
(d) conduct or contracting out (after consultation with BI) of
evaluation studies of BRI term-lending operations.
In preparation of the various programs, the PDD would work closely with
BI and the Directorates General of the Ministry of Agriculture. All new
categories and all annual lending programs would be submitted to the BI
head office for comments and approval.
Program Development Economist
4.        The program development economist would serve as an advisor to
the Planning Bureau head, and would have as his main counterpart the head
of the Program Development Department (PDD) to be established in that Bureau.
His main function would be to guide the PDD in the development of lending
programs both for long-term RCP-financed categories, and for other term-
lending operations. He would also advise and assist the Planning Bureau
head in developing the operating procedures of the PDD and in training
PDD staff, and would, as required, assist the Education Bureau in providing
economic training for BRI term-lending staff. The consultant should have a
Ph.D, M.A. or equivalent degree in economics or agricultural economics. He
should have more than five years' experience in program development, project
appraisal and credit operations, with much of this in developing countries.
Training or experience in agricultural economics would be essential, as this
is the sector for which BRI has the major responsibility.
Training Specialist
5.        The training specialist would advise and assist BRI's Education
Bureau head on all aspects of training for term lending. His major functions
would be to:
(a)  complete the identification of the training requirements for all
term-lending staff at BRI's head office, and regional and branch
offices, particularly those participating in either the SEDP
or the RCP;
(b) advise on the design of new courses, the modification of existing
courses and the selection of outside training for BRI's term-
lending staff;
(c) prepare teaching material for the above BRI courses: and
(d) train teachers for the above BRI courses.



- 101 -
Annex 6
Page 4
All staff handling term-lending would be considered for participation, but
the main emphasis would be on BRI staff handling RCP lending at the branch
offices, who would be at three levels:
(a)  loan officers ("mantris") who make the field investigations of
individual loans, recommend loan approval and terms, and
supervise project implementation;
(b) credit section heads, who supervise the loan officers and review
their recommendations; and
(c) branch managers, who have the authority to approve loans (up to
certain limits) or recommend them to the regional managers for
approval.
Separate training programs would be needed for staff at each of these three
levels. In developing these programs, the training specialist would work
closely with two consultants who have been recruited under the SEDP for
LPPI. The LPPI consultants would be responsible for designing courses which
LPPI, BRI and the other term-lending handling banks would give to the branches'
term-lending staff. However, these courses would only deal with matters
common to all the handling banks. BRI's own training consultant would
therefore pay particular attention to developing courses that would meet
needs specific to BRI, especially in agricultural credit and the implemen-
tation of BRI's own procedures manual for small term-lending.
6.        The training specialist should have considerable exprience in
planning and undertaking the training of bank staff in developing countries,
preferably where agricultural term-lending was involved. He should be
familiar with both the main subject matter to be taught (procedures for the
appraisal and supervision of term loans to agricultural and other small
enterprises) and with educational methodology.
Development Bankers
7.        The three development bankers would advise and assist BRI with
medium- and long-term lending including implementation of the RCP. The
senior development banker would serve as an advisor to the Investment Credit
Bureau head in Jakarta. He would have three main counterparts: the head of
the Investment Credit Bureau, the head of the Project Aid Department (for the
RCP) and the head of the KIK/KMKP Department. In Jakarta, his major respon-
sibilities would be to:
(a) monitor the progress of the various units of BRI engaged in the
implementation of the RCP and other term-lending programs (regarding
developing annual programs, recruiting and training staff, obtaining
technical support from the Ministry of Agriculture, preparing



- 102 -
Annex 6
Page 5
appendices to the procedures manual, allocating funds, etc.) and
advise BRI management of any bottlenecks or delays;
(b) in cooperation with the PDD, assist in preparing appendices to
the procedures manual for small term-lending for each RCP subloan
category or other term-lending activity, spelling out the specific
procedures to be fo.Llowed for that category, within the general
guidelines of the manual;
(c) based on experience with the RCP and other term-lending programs,
recomblend modifications in the procedures manual, and check that
the manual is being kept current; in proposing modifications in
BRI's small term-lending procedures manual, the consultant would
coordinate closely with the KIK/KMKP procedures expert who would be
assigned for that purpose by BI under the SEDP, and the two develop-
ment banker consultants in BRI's regional offices;
(d) assist in implementation of the monitoring and reporting systems
of the RCP, including data on loan collections performance; and
(e)  assist the Investment Credit Bureau in supervising the BRI regional
offices with regard to term-lending programs, especially the RCP.
In addition to his activities in Jakarta, the consultant may be required
to spend periods in regional offices, assisting these with implementation of
the RCP and other term-lending activities.
8.        The other two development bankers would work primarily at the BRI
regional offices, after spending an initial one to three months in the Invest-
ment Credit Bureau in Jakarta, assisting the consultant there with his work,
while becoming familiar with BRI's organization, credit operations and
procedures (and taking language training if necessary). One of the consultants
would probably alternate between the regional offices in South Sumatra/Lampung
(Palembang) and West Java (Bandung), and the other between those in South
Sulawesi (Ujung Pandang), Central Java (Semarang), East Java (Surabaya) and
Yogyakarta. They would travel extensively, supervising the BRI branches in
their provinces. The consultants would advise and assist the regional
managers in implementation of the RCP and other term-lending programs. Any
involvement in the KIK/KMKP program in Central and East Java would be subject
to coordination with the SEDP as agreed from time to time between BRI and BI.
Their chief counterparts would be the heads of the Credit Departments of the
regional offices (or the term 'Lending departments, if and when these were
created). The consultants' main functions would be to:
(a) together with regional-office staff, visit the branches lending
under the RCP or other term-lending programs, and review adherence
to the BRI rules and regulations governing these programs, and the
use made of the smaLl term-lending procedures manual;



- 103 -
Annex 6
Page 6
(b) assist branches in appraisal and supervision of RCP and other
term-lending loans, especially the first few loans in each
subsectoral category;
(c) train branch and regional office term lending staff in criteria
and techniques for subloan appraisal and supervision;
(d) monitor the term lending collections performance of branches,
and advise on ways to improve collections; and
(e) recommend ways to improve internal procedures for RCP and other
term-loans, especially with a view to reducing the processing time
and paperwork of loan appraisal.
The development bankers at BRI's regional offices would work closely with
BI.
9.        The senior development banker should have more than 5 years'
experience in investment credit, and the other development bankers at least
5 years', including extensive practical experience in small-investment
credit programs in developing countries. Experience with smallholder agri-
cultural credit would be particularly useful.   Familiarity with loan appraisal
and supervision techniques would be essential.
Agricultural Experts
10.       The three agricultural experts would advise BRI on both production
and marketing of the commodities in which they specialize. Because of the
wide geographic spread of their categories, the Fisheries Specialist and the
Livestock Specialist would be based in Jakarta. The Perennial Crops Specialist
would be based in the Palembang Regional Ofice, which covers South Sumatra
and Lampung provinces, where the pepper and coffee lending would take place.
They would work closely with the respective Directorates General in the
Ministry of Agriculture. When in Jakarta, they would advise the Planning
Bureau head on matters related to the planning of the lending programs in
their respective categories, and the Investment Credit Bureau head on issues
involved in implementation.   When in the field they would serve as advisors
to the Regional Managers. Their major functions would be to:
(a) advise the Planning Bureau on technical aspects related to
preparation of annual lending programs, for both RCP and
other term-lending categories;
(b) help identify, prepare and appraise new categories for agricultural
lending under both the RCP and other term-lending programs;
(c) provide technical training to BRI staff, and assist those
staff in the technical aspects of subloan appraisal.



- 104 -
Annex 6
Page 7
11.       The consultants should all have university degrees, preferably a
Ph.D, M.Sc., or equivalent degrees, in agriuclture or related fields, and at
least five year's practical experience in production and marketing of their
respective subsectors, preferably in Indonesia, or at least in ecologically
and economically similar areas.



- 105 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consultancy on Accounting, Management Information and
Related Matters - Terms of Reference
The following terms of reference are contained in the March 30,
1977 addendum to the consultancy contract between BRI and Price Waterhouse
Associates (the "Consultant").
(a) Management Information
(i) Compile a set of all the existing financial and statistical
reports prepared within BRI for internal and external
distribution and, for each report, obtain an understanding
of the content, frequency, purpose, source of preparation
and underlying work flow procedures.
(ii) Ascertain BRI's present approach to, and basis for, the
preparation of budget estimates or planning forecasts.
(iii) Based on a review and evaluation of the findings under
(a) and (b) above, prepare a discussion paper for the
BRI Board of Directors setting out the recommended
improvements to strengthen the use of information as a
meaningful, timely and reliable planning and control
aid to management and commenting, in outline, on
(i) the framework and components of the recommended
management information system; (ii) its objectives and
benefits; (iii) its basis of preparation and the resulting
required changes in the existing accounting procedures and
chart of accounts; (iv) its cost; and (v) the requirements
and timetable for its phased implementation.
(iv) Once the recommendations are acceptable to the BRI Board
of Directors, in conjunction with the Project Management
Office (PMO) (i) design the management information system,
including the cash reporting system, and its underlying basis
of preparation and procedures in detail; (ii) prepare a
supporting and explanatory manual of procedures; (iii)
determine the approach, requirements and timetable for imple=
mentation; and (iv) supervise the implementation of the
necessary changes in procedures and reporting requirements in
one test branch.



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
(v) Prepare detailed budgeting procedures to provide
input to the management information system, including
the cash reporting system, to be incorporated in the
accounting manual.
(b) Management Performance Evaluation System
To ensure that the fullest management control possible arises
from the output of thte management information system the
Consultant will develop a system to evaluate the performance
of the different organizational levels of management within BRI.
Such system should produce key comparative operational data for
various aspects of bank operation and should highlight areas of
low and high management effectiveness.
The procedures to be followed by a "trouble shooting" team to
investigate these exceptional areas and to make such areas
more effective when contributing to an overall improvement
in management performance are to be developed.
Such recommendation for measurement and improvement of management
performance are to be incorporated in a BRI Management Control
Manual by the Consultant.
(c)  Financial Reporting System
Redesign chart of accounts and redesign managment reporting
system. The work program for this area should be as follows:
(i) Review all existing management reports (statistical
and financial), analyze data therein, determine the
use of data by executives, obtain executives' views
on data required.
(ii) Discuss with management best approach to management
reporting including budgets and reach agreement on
reporting structure at all levels.
(iii) Design new management reporting system.
(iv) Prepare accounting policy statements to meet needs
of reports.
(v) Analyze existing charts of accounts, prepare new
chart of accounts to provide data required by
management report and Bank Indonesia.



- 107 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
(vi)  Define each account showing new source of
entries, composition of balance and balance
reconciliation or verification requirements.
(vii)  Define cross references between new and old chart
of accounts.
(viii) Define all standing journal entries and author-
ities for entries required to support chart of
accounts.
(ix)  Define budget and forecasting procedures to
support management reporting structure.
(x) Write procedures for budget and management report
preparation. Such system should produce key
comparative operational data for various aspects
of Bank operation and should highlight areas of
low and high management effectiveness.
(xi)  Write conversion procedures from old chart of
accounts, design necessary forms.
(xii)  Design training course for instructing staff of
new chart of accounts.
(xiii) Test new system at one mechanized and one manual
branch.
(xiv)  Design implementation and training timetable.
(d) Rationalization of the Mechanized System
(i) Establish criteria for level of mechanization
relating to volume of business i.e. the number
of transactions below which mechanization
would not be used.
(ii)  Establish criteria for locations which can and
should be mechanized, i.e.:
(1)  Maintenance availability
(2)  Level of staff capability
(3)  Ability to provide back-up
machines within acceptable time
(4)  Customer service levels required
(iii) Logistical study to determine machine use strategy
and location of equipment pool.



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
(iv)  Recommendations for renewal of service contract
and service levels required including time
limitation at maintenance pool areas.
(v) Review statistics collected from fact finding
questionnaires and using agreed criteria make
recommendations as to which branches should be
mechanized.
(vi) Design and write procedures for a manual back-up
system for use in mechanized branches including
revisions to the existing mechanized system where
necessary.
(vii) Design and write procedures for:
(1)  conversion from mechanized system to
new system for nonmechanized branches;
(2)  conversion from mechanized system to
back-up system and reversion to mechan-
ized system;
(3)  machine movement and maintenance control
system.
(viii) Design retraining and implementation programs.
(ix) Implement at test branches:
(1) back-up system (one branch);
(2) changeover from mechanized system to
nonmechanized system (one branch).
(x) Review trends in BRI operations and based on criteria
in (i), (ii) and (iii) above, make recommendations to
the Board on the best potential future course for the
Bank to follow in relation to future mechanization
programs.
(e) Revision of Manuals
(i) Define the format of all manuals covering:
(1) mechanized and back-up system;
(2) nonmechanized procedures standard to
all branches;
(3) user handbook requirements.



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
(ii)  review all flow charts, correct and modify where
necessary using existing Price Waterhouse Associates
charts.
(iii) Write detailed procedures.
(iv)  Supervise printing and issue of procedures.
(f)  Training
Train selected BRI staff in the use of the proposed internal
audit working papers both formally and in the field in two
BRI branches operating under the new mechanized system. The
work program will be as follows:
(i)  Design training program and training material.
(ii)  Conduct formal training course.
(iii) Field training at two selected branches using the
the new mechanized system (one full audit and one
selective audit).
(iv)  Review results from field testing and modify internal
audit working papers as necessary.



- 110 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Evaluation Study
1.        Under the project, an eight year evaluation study of project
lending would be undertaken. The study would focus on the economic impact of
the subloans, and the problems encountered by subborrowers. The results of the
study would be used by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and the Association in
designing any future rural credit projects.
2.        BRI would obtain assistance from a suitable Indonesian university
or institute with experience in survey research in economics to: (a) help
develop BRI's own subloan monitoring and evaluation capability; and (b)
design and help implement the evaluation study. Interested organizations
would be asked to submit detailed proposals to BRI, which would, with the
agreement of Bank Indonesia (BI) and the Association, select the best proposal.
The proposals would describe the organizations' technical approach to the
study, and should be specific, detailed and complete enough to clearly
demonstrate their understanding of the requirements for and the technical
problems inherent in the study. Evaluation of the proposals would be based
upon the understanding shown of the project, the methodology to be used, the
staff qualifications, and the organizations' experience with similar studies.
If no Indonesian organizations had fully suitable qualifications, short-term
assistance from an individual consultant might be arranged, primarily for
setting up and supervising the research.
3.        The study would be based on a sample of project subloans selected
at random from various subloan. categories. A sample size of about 400-500
loans is anticipated selected over the three years of the project. By April
1, 1979, a two-year contract would be signed; extensions would be based on
performance both in the study and in training BRI staff. After two years,
BRI should be in a position to carry out most of the study, except probably
for some of the data analysis.
4.        The organization undertaking the study would have to:
(a) prepare and pre-test the interview questionnaires;
(b) train the interviewers (probably five to ten people), who would be
BRI staff if availalble, who would visit the selected subborrowers
regularly (every one to three months, depending upon how seasonal
the activity is);
(c) select the sample of subloans;
(d) design recording sheets to be filled out by the subborrowers
between interviews;



- 111 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
(e) interview the loan officers who made the loans, and possibly
extension officers as well;
(f) analyze the interview questionnaire results;
(g) write semi-annual progress reports and a final report
presenting the results and conclusions.
5.        Preparation, pre-testing, training and sample selection would take
about four months. Subloans would be selected shortly after being approved,
so that base-line data on them could be obtained, covering pre-subloan
production, employment, technology, marketing, input supply, etc. The
progress of the subborrowers would then be followed over about the next two
to seven years depending on the category; the longest period would be for
the perennial crops, due to their long gestation period. Data analysis
would be done for each category as soon as adequate information was available
on that category.
6.        The main subjects of investigation would be:
(a) the impact of the subloans on production, employment, etc.;
this would be used both to calculate economic/financial rates of
return and to see how accurate the projected cash flows were;
(b) the main problems encountered by the subborrowers;
(c) the technical support needed and received from the Ministry of
Agriculture;
(d) the subloan repayment performance, and reasons for any
arrears;
(e) the amount, nature and effect of supervision done by BRI.



- 112 -
ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Draft Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
1.        To serve its own requirements, as well as those of the Association,
each participating BRI branch in the project provinces would maintain:
(a) a subproject file for each project subloan, including the documen-
tation for the subloan, the repayment schedule for principal and
interest, and a record of all disbursements, repayments, and
supervision visits;
(b) a map showing the location of all subprojects;
(c) monthly lists, subloan by subloan basis, of all subloans outstanding,
amounts in arrears or falling due, and subloan approvals, disburse-
ments, collections and supervision visits during the month; and
(d) an up-to-date manual of credit procedures for the project, incorpor-
ating all circulars or other directives received.
2.        BRI would send the Association semi-annual progress reports on the
project, including the appraisal reports of all proposed new subloan categories,
as well as the basic data on the project.
3.        In addition, annual review papers would be prepared by BRI for
joint review with BI and the Association. These papers, besides summarizing
the accomplishments and problems of the preceding 12 months, would address
issues affecting national policy, institutional structures and program
performance. Specifically, they would discuss the measures taken, or proposed,
to overcome the constraints hampering smallholder development in Indonesia,
and to strengthen BRI, including inter alia the following issues:
(a)  coordination on the project between BRI and other agencies, espe-
cially the agricultural extension services, and success in arranging
for technical support from these agencies for subborrowers;
(b) procedural improvements in project sublending, and recruitment
and training of term-lending staff;
(c) collections performance under the project;
(d) adequacy of the interest spread to BRI; and
(e) distribution of subloans by province, sector, maturity
and size.



- 113 -
ANNEX 10
Table 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost By Province
(US$ million, 1977 prices)
West   Central  East                   South               South
Category           Java    Java    Java   Yogyakarta  Sumatra   Lampung  Sulawesi  Total
Pepper                -        -        -          -         6.5       2.0         -        8.5
Coffee                -        -        -          -          -        1.6         -        1.6
Cattle breeding       -       1.2      1.7        0.8        -         1.2        3.1       8.0
Brackish water
fishponds          2.0      2.6     2.9         -          -          -         4.2      11.7
Freshwater
fishponds          1.4       -       -          -          -          -          -        1.4
Fishing boat
motorization       0.1      0.1      0.1         -         -          -         0.2       0.5
Iceplants            0.2      0.3      0.2         -         -          -         0.3       0.9
Subtotal        3.8     4.2      4.9        0.8        6.5        4.8        7.8     32.6
Unspecified           1.0     1.1      1.2        0.2        1.6        1.2       2.0       8.4
Total           4.8      5.3     6.1        1.0        8.1        6.0        9.8     41.0
% of total      12%      13%     15%         2%        20%        15%        24%      100%



- 114 -
ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost, by Year/a of Commitment
(US$million)
Category                     1979/80          1980/81          1981/82         Total
Pepper - Bangka                    1.7              2.2              2.6           6.5
- Lampung                   -               0.8              1.2            2.0
Coffee                             0.3              0.5              0.8            1.6
Cattle breeding                    1.5              2.5              4.0           8.0
Brackish water                     3.5              3.9              4.3           11.7
fishponds
Freshwater                         0.2              0.5              0.7            1.4
fishponds
Fishing boat
motorization                     0.1              0.2             0.2            0.5
Iceplants                          0-3              0.3              0.3           0.9
Unspecified                         -               3.1              5.3            8.4
Total (1977 prices)          7.6             14.0             19.4           41.0
Price contingency /b         1.8              4.9              9.5           16.0
Total (current prices)       9.4             18.8             28.8           57.0
/a  Indonesian fiscal year, April 1 - March 31.
/b 23% for 1979/80, 34% for 1980/81, and 48% for 1981/82.



- 115 -
ANNEX 11
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements
IDA fiscal year                             Disbursements
and quarter                         Quarterly         Cumulative
- (US$ million) ------
FY79
Second                            0.3                0.3
Third                             0.1                0.4
Fourth                            0.3                0.7
FY80
First                             0.6                1.3
Second                            0.9                2.2
Third                             1.2                3.4
Fourth                            1.5                4.9
FY81
First                             1.7                6.6
Second                            1.9                8.5
Third                             2.1               10.6
Fourth                            2.3               12.9
FY82
First                             2.5               15.4
Second                            2.8               18.2
Third                             3.0               21.2
Fourth                            3.0               24.2
FY83
First                             1.5               25.7
Second                            1.0               26.7
Third                             0.7               27.4
Fourth                            0.6               28.0
FY84
First                             0.5               28.5
Second                            0.5               29.0
Third                             0.4               29.4
Fourth                            0.3               29.7
FY85
First                             0.3               30.0
Estimated date of effectiveness: October 1, 1978
Estimated closing date: March 30, 1985.



- 116 -
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Action Program for Project Implementation
I. Actions to be Taken by BRI
1. By January 1, 1979, to appoint, with the agreement of the
Association, at least six of the term-lending consultants, the
remaining consultants to be appointed by April 1, 1978.
2. By February 1, 1979, to submit the first annual lending program
covering the period April 1979 - March 1980, for approval by the
Association.
3. By April 1, 1979, to contract out the evaluation study, including
a program for development of BRI's capability in monitoring and
evaluation, with the agreement of the Association.
4.  By September 30, 1980, to submit to the Association audited
project accounts, together with the audit report on those
accounts and the overall audit of BRI for calendar 1979.
II. Action to be Taken by the Government
1. To make adequate provision in the Ministry of Agriculture
budget, for the year starting April 1, 1979, for technical
support to subborrowers, including (a) strengthening the PMUs of
the DG of Estate Crops, (b) establishing one bull unit per 50 cows
and providing one fEield extension worker per 300 subborrowers
under cattle breeding financing, and (c) constructing, maintain-
ing and staffing brackish water and freshwater demonstration
ponds in each district involved.



- 117 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Project Lending
General
1.        Terms, conditions, policies and procedures governing BI's KIKL/
program would generally be adopted for lending under the project. The
applicable KIK rules and regulations, however, could subsequently be modified
by BI provided that, in the opinion of the Association, such modifications
did not materially and adversely affect the project's objectives or implemen-
tation. Initially, the following main rules and regulations would apply;
exceptions from the KIK rules are marked by an asterisk (*).
Subloans made by BRI
2.        Purpose of subloans
(a) Subloans will finance viable subprojects in agriculture, including
livestock, fisheries, forestry and agro-processing, that require
finance for more than five years.(*)
(b) Subloans will finance both new operations and the expansion or
modernization of existing operations.
(c) Subloans will be used for the financing of investment expenditures
(including the purchase of land, provided it does not require using
the IDA-funded portion of the subloan for this), and the permanent
working capital requirements related thereto.
3.        Eligibility of subborrowers.  Enterprises or individuals whose net
worth does not exceed Rp 20 million, whose net current assets are no more
than Rp 10 million and whose total outstanding liabilities to banks do not
exceed Rp 10 million, shall be eligible to receive subloans. Exceptions to
this rule shall be made where justified, on a category-by-category basis for
specific types of subprojects.(*)
4.        Amount
(a) The amount of the subloan shall depend on the cost of the
subproject, the actual need of the subborrower, the collateral
offered, the subborrower's repayment capacity including net
proceeds of the proposed subloan and other factors bearing on
/1 For the small working capital portion of the project, KMKP interest rates
would apply.



- 118 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
the subborrower's creditworthiness. The subloan may finance
up to one hundred percent (100%) of the total subproject cost.
(b) The amount of the subloan shall not normally exceed Rp 5 million
for any single subproject, except as follows:
(i)  A subborrower may obtain for additional financing to
expand a project previously financed under KIK or KMKP.
The maximum outstanding balance to which he is then entitled
is Rp 10 million, provided his debt-servicing record over the
past two years was satisfactory.
(ii)  The subproject to be financed falls under a category
covered by a specific lending program which inter alia
prescribes a subloan ceiling higher than Rp 5 million (*).
5.        Maturity, grace period and repayment of subloans
(a) Subloan maturities, grace periods and repayment schedules shall
be established taking into account the nature of the subproject
being financed and projections of its cash flow.
(b) Subloan maturities shall be more than five (5) years but not
exceed fifteen (15) years.(*)
(c) Subloan maturities shall include an appropriate grace period,
during which interest may be capitalized.(*)
(d) Subloans shall be granted on an installment loan basis.
6.        Rate of interest.  Subloans shall accrue interest at a rate of
ten-and-a-half percent (10.5%) per annum on the investment-financing portion
of the principal amount outstanding from time to time, and twelve percent
(12%) per annum on the portion of the subloan financing permanent working
capital requirements.
7.        Collateral
(a) Collateral pledged by subborrowers shall be sufficient to cover
one hundred percent (100%) of the subloan amount.
(b)  The main collateral for the subloan shall be the subproject
financed. If this is insufficient, the subborrower will offer



- 119 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3
additional security, in the form of private property or guarantees
from a third party, to meet the preceding requirement.
8.        Disbursement of subloans
(a) Disbursements are to be made in tranches, whenever appropriate,
according to progress of work done, following physical inspection
of the subproject site.
(b) Wherever feasible, payments shall be made directly to the
supplier/dealer/contractor on the basis of pro forma invoices.
9.        Procurement
(a) BRI shall ensure that procurement is effected prudently and that
prices paid are competitive. To do so, BRI shall, wherever feasible,
require borrowers to obtain and submit to it three price quotations
from suppliers/contractors.
10.       Penalty for nonpayment.  A penalty rate of interest of three percent
(3%) per annum shall accrue, over and above the interest rate specified above,
on any principal and interest in arrears for more than ninety (90) days. Pay-
ment of this penalty may be waived if the subloan is subsequently rescheduled.
Refinancing of subloans
11.       Amount.  BI shall refinance eighty percent (80%) of the subloan
amounts granted by BRI to subborrowers; the IDA credit, sixty-eight percent
(68%) of the refinancing amounts granted by BI to BRI.
12.       Rate of interest.  BI's refinancing loan (including the IDA-funded
portion) shall accrue interest at a rate of three percent (3%) per annum on
the principal amount outstanding from time to time.
13.       Repayment of refinancing loans.  The repayment schedule of each
refinancing loan shall coincide, in terms of due dates, with the amortization
schedule approved for the subloan, and correspond to this schedule in terms
of amount. BRI shall remain fully liable for the service of any refinancing
loan, whether the corresponding subloan is serviced regularly or not.
However, should BRI reschedule a subloan, the corresponding amount of the
refinancing loan may similarly be rescheduled.
Credit insurance coverage
14.       ASKRINDO shall insure BRI against the credit risk on seventy-five
percent (75%) of the amount (principal and interest) in default, subject to a
maximum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the amount originally approved for
the subloan. The insurance premium shall be agreed between ASKRINDO, BRI and
BI, and shall be paid partly by BRI and partly by BI (*).






_  +  1040 '                                           1o6-                                                       APRIL 1978
I~~~~~~~    K
i JAMBI  _  
-2                                                                                                                                                                           2 >  <   gBANGKA-
&6 PngkaIpinong
Ton jungponda
, g ( / ~~~~~~~~~~ < t C g~~~~~~~BEL ItUNG 
.  <   /   t                     ALEMBANG                                       A           Ns    <\<MBANG
i 9< S8~~~~~~~~U  T  H   A U M   A  T  R A j:
Lu Xu ukinggau   >       Perabumulih           BOKayuagung                                                      INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
<<\                                      Muaraenim ~\   Lht<-y g\                               vSouth Sumatra & Lampung
A  BRI regionai office
A  BRI branches
p                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40~
X   Cz  \  NBaturaja  y                <           J A V A              *  Cattle
C Coffee
<,    SEfPA             Pepper
\       \   /   ~L  A M  P U N G  ,
/ N O / A N                  9                                          AKotabumi                                                   Roads
O CEA N I                                                                                                                            ProvrnciaJ boundaries
P
>  {Metro     106'                                                   1080
THAIlAND              K~~~~~~VIUPPINES
Tanjungkorang                                BRIJNi      -
Teluketun                                   A                                      A       0CiA
KILOMETERSIRA 
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ so'0
>      I                                        I |                                             0                             J  >                  l                    ff A
6'                     MILES                             T6i mho hop  08 lit t*e Wnrd sKs sb/f Osoeltw tb 8,  6
h_soodorioo -hooiooo this os 50 104-i so the |oe of th  World Book oof Ao  I N 0 -  A  N
0)                                                    104rrstwo boundaries 0O






__o.r                                                        lie'                                                           1'                                              'INJDONESIA                      7Fi 10e
RURAL CREDtT PROJECT
Java
-   ^                                                                                                                                                           i)BRI heedcff:ce                            S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR  ee ea
J    A       V        A          S     t    A                                                                                            * dh I egiorsi offces
--                                                                                                                                                            A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR OSOCb-i
JAKARTA                                                                                                                                                          FE,hmg -IR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d '"WNRa rns r O  o
g;/  >  A   <    <<5Ll                                                                                                                                                                1] Brec2ith fashpdndS                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ raiis fnoel
LuLuhetnokos twFuwis  |  \ T / g y a ; u                                                                                                                                                  i FreTh wPter ftshAtnas                     j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fes wte fhrro
Roads
?aa-isaol ba-,edai-'
*  A  *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~M ALA                                                                                                                            *Y
r~,< T - =   I;> 2c\ 
_E       N   T -  Ae/                                                   -      ' ;  '  A   NLA  O   i . A   V  *
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~".                                                                                                                                              Jr t.=i
I   s   '  { \  = J  441., c.    e  ewU               # B~~~~~~~~~~~~abaoas                                Pegg
lt-h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g a'                                                        Ras.      'k        AN               Bo   t          Moe         Bral     /   lag                         *           *1    = * .  .............. odKlaMcEs a
P><h,-X1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~a Am
e r t   _  17   a   25  MIL25    T5          > a                                    4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ate
I   _                    105'                                                          W15                                                          IljT'                                                           I1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ct'






120                                                                                                     12k                                       APRIL 1978
\ \\ re/uk romin/ ~~~~INDONESIA
MA KA S SA A                                                                                                                          RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SrgAlr                         Poiu                                                                         u                         South Sulawesi
*1                                                                               ,.J \ ,, g    *A BRI regional office
so ,   5A  BRI branches
C E NTRA L                 SULAWE                                                                              U Fishing boats and ice plants
I  Brackish fishponds
0.                                                                        )                                                                          Cattle                                 0-
Ko .onor \ialeol______e  Roads
/   S O U T H            >                                         Tnluk   /o lo                                                       bo- -Provincial  undaries
I S U L A W  E S I    %                            - 
)Mamuju
Makale             POpO
wali /    5    g~-"SOUTH EAST 
Pintn.tea9 ,9<                                   SULA    
Por,por pon
-2-         ~~Parepco<          A 7 3e                                       nai yl2
Fe f cs k     5  C8kani k.Jg,aka                                                         <vJ
Wotans  pen                                                                             S
MAd n d or   J                t      ta mpone                   (<~                                       
Portokojen                                                                                                  0          50          100        150        200
UJUNG PANDANG            aros                    Te /a k    8 o n e                                                                               KILOMETERS
J4 1S niai  /  X                              0        25        50       75        100      125
Sungguminasa  t                                     a   (t    td_2gBaUbaS                                 1u4-                  MILES
124'
Takal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
ba~~~~~~~~b                                                                                          TH |LAN W_     Ru/             S'9lPae             
II                         ~~~~~~~~~This map has bea preparedl by the'e                                             PACIAPOItOC.AA,
-4-                                                                                  WorWBank,tf                                               ZIaeckusety fin' r  UMANTAN                   NMP
Bente rg                                     the conveni aie of fth readers of                                                                       AU
the report to which it is atteche.               Pongksl inang
The denominatos used Ad teo                                                                        A IRIAN  _
boundenes shown an this omp                                   D                                      A -At A  
FLOPES  ii))                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do nor imply on the part of thert
>  FZORES                              SEA                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wotrld Bank end its affilites, any  TOnge
M                                                                 s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jrgmn  nteiptseso  swtrsny tarritory or any endorsement  eN
or acceptace of such botundaries.  A/ N   I/AN                         
_                                  120-                                                 122'                             o C E A IV                                      4R
CO Lt_I                                                                        _                                                                                               --nternation lObtudories  D



