1i       ;  tfi PY                       Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RW  No. P-2 341 -IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 1, 1978
ThIs    " bemme h  a ctie" Mdlirlh gd may be mod by ree&anta owly i. the p_ofmce i 
I their Uki dal.  cOstat may bM oihrwhe be dieed witdwo Wol Bak audrimdha.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$l           =  Rp 415
Rp 100         =  US$0.241
Rp 1 million   =  US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  - 0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)   -  2.2 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
ASKRINDO - Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BI        - Bank Indonesia
BIMAS     - Mass Guidance (a farm input-credit program)
BRI       - Bank Rakyat Indonesia
INMAS     - Mass Intensification (a farm input program)
INPRES    - Presidential Instruction (a village improvement program)
'KIB      - General Investment Credit
KIK       - Small Investment Credit
IMKP      - Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
LPPI      - Institution for the Development of Banking in Indonesia
SEDP      - Small Enterprise Development Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government              -  April 1 to March 31
Bank Indonesia          -  April 1 to March 31
Bank Rakyat Indonesia  -  January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
*           Beneficiary:            Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
Amount:                US$30 million
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government will make the proceeds of the Credit
available to BRI at 3% interest per annum with the
repayment schedule of the credit component based on the
repayment schedules of the subloans, ranging between 5
and 15 years, and the technical assistance component to
be repaid in 20 years, including a grace period of 4
years.
Project
Description:         The project will:  (a) finance long-term loans for about
40,000 smallholders for subprojects primarily in fisheries,
livestock and perennial crops; and (b) improve BRI's term
lending capability through technical assistance in program
development, training, credit procedures, accounting and
management information, and through financing of a
study of the project's socio-economic impact.
Estimated Cost:                      Local        Foreign       Total
----------($ milllion)--------
Credit                      35.3         5.7          41.0
Technical assistance         1.2         1.3            2.5
Price contingency           14.0         2.5           16.5
Total                     50.5         9.5          60.0
Financing Plan:                  IDA       BI       BRI    Subborrowers   Total
---------------($ million)-----------
Credit                 27.0    12.7       9.9         7.4        57.0
Technical assistance   3.0      -          -           -          3.6
Total                30.0    12.7       9.9        7.4         60.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY           1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
------------------ ($ million)----------------
Annual            0.7    4.2    8.0   11.3    3.8    1.7    0.3
Cumulative        0.7    4.9   12.9   24.2   28.0   29.7   30.0
Rate of Return:   The weighted average economic rate of return for the various
subloan categories of the project is 27%.
Appraisal Report: No. 1741-IND, dated June 1, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $3.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Rural Credit Project. The proceeds of
the credit would be relent to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) at 3% interest per
annum, with the repayment schedule of the credit component based on the
repayment schedules of the subloans, ranging from 5 to 15 years, and the
technical assistance component to be repaid in 20 years, including a grace
period of 4 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent
Developments, Short-Term Prospects and Development Issues," of April 26, 1978
(2026-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 28, 197a.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-
1973/74),/2 the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed.
Transport, power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after
years of neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural
output expanded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of
modern industry - fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period,
the annual rate of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and
investments also rose rapidly.
4.        With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in these respects has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts have been focused on short-
term issues, the economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and public
concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first two
years of the Plan were dominated by the developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
/1 This part is an updated version of the one contained in the President's
Report No. P-2324-IND, dated May 8, 1978, for the Eleventh Irrigation
Project.
/2 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. Foreign
bank credit became more restrictive with the onset of world recession.
Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-term debt and failed to meet the
financial obligations which were falling due. In these circumstances, the
Government stepped in and assumed the oil company's obligations. The repay-
ment of these obligations, along with the fall in export earnings as a result
of the recession, necessitated large foreign commercial borrowing, seriously
strained the Government's budgetary resources and Indonesia's balance of
payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign exchange reserves.
5.        In most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis
well, and the following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) witnessed a substan-
tial improvement in the balance of payments and the Government's budgetary
position as well as a reduction in the rate of domestic inflation. During
1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly (following improvements in
the world economy), and rose to a higher level than anticipated. Imports
continued to increase rapidly but the rate of increase of import prices
slowed down, and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. These trends continued
into 1977/78, and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange
reserves, which have averaged over $2 billion (or about four months of
imports) in the early months of 1978.
6.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues
together with continued restraint on current expenditures enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 10%.
7.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.5 trillion (about
$6 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 22.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; economic growth in the first four years of
Indonesia's Second Development Plan (1974/75-1977/78) has, in fact, been
slower than that in the First Plan period. The world recession, slackening



- 3 -
agricultural output and domestic inflation (which made some domestic industries
uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on the growth of the
economy. In addition, public investments in recent years have been concentrated
on relatively capital-intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with
long gestation periods. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from
investments in such sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc.,
depends on the growth in demand which in turn is determined by the growth
of the rest of the economy, mainly the private sector, which has failed to
provide the necessary momentum to growth. The indications are that private
investments rose only modestly in recent years for a number of reasons,
including the Government's attempts to control domestic inflation and to
encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors, and the uncertain state of the
world economy.
8.        Between 1961 and 1971, the population of Indonesia grew by 2.1%
annually; with high fertility rates, increasing longevity and an age distri-
bution heavily weighted towards the younger groups, there was a widespread
expectation that growth would further accelerate, and reach at least 2.3% over
the 1971-1976 period. Yet the Inter-Censal Population Survey shows that the
growth rate was actually reduced to 2.0% and that Indonesia's population
stood at 130.2 million in March 1976, about 5 million less than had been
expected. Further declines in mortality may actually raise the growth rate
once again, but there is now hope that the population will reach 200 million
only at the end of the century - later than even the lowest earlier projection.
9.        The most outstanding and encouraging feature to emerge from recent
data was a marked decline in fertility levels in Java and Bali. The total
fertility rate for Java declined from 5.5 in 1971 to 4.4 in 1976, a drop of
20%. In Bali, fertility declined even more dramatically, from 5.8 to 3.8, by
more than a third. The National Family Planning Program, which began in 1970
and enjoys strong political backing and support from major religious and other
private organizations, is believed to be an important reason for the fertility
decline. A start was recently made to extend the services of the Program
to the other islands. Their total fertility rate was 6.8 in 1971 - well
above that of Java - and it showed no decline up to 1976. Mortality rates
also differ sharply. Life expectation in the other islands is 47 years as
against 49 years in Java. Moreover, the gap itself appears to be widening,
although mortality rates are diminishing everywhere.
10.       Information on underemployment and wages is incomplete and not very
reliable but there are indications that the growth in opportunities for
gainful employment has about kept pace with the growth of the labor force
since 1970. Real wages do not seem to have fallen. This is encouraging,
since many of the changes that are taking place in agricultural production
and processing techniques, including improved transportation, mechanical rice
hulling, etc., are of a labor saving nature. It is evident that farming on
Java is increasingly becoming a part-time activity, that landlessness is
becoming more common and that a growing proportion of Java's rural population
is primarily or exclusively dependent on the sale of their labor to earn an



- 4 -
income. The need for greater emphasis on the promotion of labor-intensive
export industries and the development of small and medium-scale rural indus-
tries deserves high priority in the formulation of future development plans.
11.       Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years, and one with
important long-term implications, is the slackening in the rate of growth in
agricultural production, particularly of rice. Over the 1975-77 period, rice
output failed to rise appreciably; for 1977, rice production is estimated at
15.9 million tons, about the same as the previous year, and almost 10% below the
Second Plan target for that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept
stable only by means of very substantial imports. In 1976/77 rice imports
amounted to 1.6 million tons and in 1977/78 they reached 2.6 million tons, or
over 15% of domestic consumption and 30% of total world trade in rice. The
stagnation in rice output over the last two years, while reflecting a complex
of institutional and policy constraints, is primarily the result of successive
droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown planthopper) infestation. Long-term
expansion of food crop production and a substantial reduction in rice imports,
require prompt assessment of available land and water resources, accelerated
construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, acceleration in land
settlement and transmigration programs based on food crop production and,
most importantly, expansion and deepening of agricultural support services.
12.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of 1976, together
with a hardening of average terms during those years, have raised the level
of debt service payments which are now expected to reach about $1.5 billion
in 1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings.  The debt service ratio /1
was 15% in 1976 and 16% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of the remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling $1 bil-
lion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.3 billion in 1975 to $3.2 billion in 1976 and to $1.7 billion in
1977. Most of the decline was achieved through a reduction in commercial
borrowing. This means that average loan terms have recently begun to soften
again, which will be reflected in future debt service payments.
13.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 5 -
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.75 billion in 1978/79, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional or semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 by
bilateral and multi-lateral IGGI members amounted to about $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank recommendations would be approximately
met.
14.       As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $600 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached. At the same time, there is a growing doubt that
crude oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 mil-
lion barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling which declared the oil revenues withheld
by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime no large new oil fields have been discovered, and, although
the Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.
15.       The implication of recent developments for imports, exports, net
service payments and future capital inflow requirements is currently under
study, but indications are that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer
over the coming years, Indonesia would be able to finance essential imports
of consumer, intermediate and capital goods and still meet its debt service
obligations. However, the relative decline in oil revenues will have serious
budgetary consequences.  In order to maintain the relatively high rate of
domestic investment already reached, the Government would need to raise
substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming years. The Government
has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there does not
appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in fact, rise
in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in
Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant part of
which is development related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's efforts
to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is likely to
be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
16.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and will make them the focus of
the Third Development Plan which is now under preparation. In the meantime
the Bank is undertaking a major review of the development problems facing
Indonesia, covering in depth such issues as domestic and foreign resource
mobilization, as well as trends and outlook for agricultural growth, popula-
tion, employment, and income distribution. This review is expected to assist
the Government's deliberations and preparation of the Third Plan; the final
report will be ready towards the end of 1978.



- 6 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.      As of April 30, 1978, Indonesia had received 38 IDA Credits
totalling $601.8 million and 31 Bank Loans amounting to $1,526 millior. At
that daLe, IFC investments totaled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank
Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end
of 1976 was about 6% and the share of debt service, less than 1%. By 1978,
these ratios are expected to reach 12% and 5%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of
April 30, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the Indonesian economy, with particular stress on agriculture, which accounts
for over one third of all lending. Most of the loans for agriculture have
been for rehabilitation and expansion of productive capacity, both for food
and tree crop development. Several national programs to provide credit,
inputs and advice to farmers and to promote agricultural research have also
been financed by the Bank Group. More recently, a major effort to aid the
Government's transmigration program has been initiated. In the industrial
sector, while the major thrust has been on expanding fertilizer production on
the basis of Indonesia's gas resources and on establishment and improvement
of development finance institutions, a Credit has recently been extended to
finance a small enterprise development project. The main emphasis in educa-
tion has been on improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has also financed urban development, through neighborhood
improvement programs, urban water supplies and family planning and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through four technical assistance Credits and a Loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
19.       Bank Group lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968
for irrigation rehabilitation, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June
1974. Disbursements on Loans and Credits, which were slow in the early years,
are now at satisfactory levels. The Indonesian authorities have also become
increasingly aware of the cost to the country of delays in project execution,
caused by cumbersome procedures, and the need to establish an effective
control system in BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning Agency). At
the Go- _rnment's request, the Bank arranged in 1974, for assistance under the
Fourth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring
and control system which is now in operation and which should lead to
improved project implementation not only of Bank Group-assisted projects but
of de eiopment projects generally.
20.       The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work opportun-
ities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor



- 7 -
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops. Efforts
to increase employment through programs directed towards improving the incomes
of the poor and their living standards are expected to be the major focus of
the Third Development Plan (1979-84) which is now under preparation. To
assist the Government, the Bank (para 16 above) is undertaking a major review
which should help the Government formulate policies and programs to expand
food production, and expand nonfarm rural employment, particularly in Java.
While some of these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group finan-
cing, it will be some time before they are ready for implementation. Meantime,
a small enterprise development project designed to increase non-agricultural
employment in rural areas and small towns, has already been approved by the
Executive Directors, and an integrated rural development project is being
appraised. In agriculture, projects are being prepared which would improve
research and extension services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems,
help replant smallholder rubber and coconut plantations, and develop presently
underutilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants and other small-
holders. Other areas of particular importance for Bank Group assistance will
be population, improvement of urban services through construction of urban
water supply systems and further expansion of neighborhood improvement
programs, and improvement and expansion of higher education, particularly of
technicians, accountants and agriculture specialists, as well as primary and
secondary education. Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important
for the Government's program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion,
particularly in transport and power, which will continue to require very
large investments for many years before these facilities are adequate to
support Indonesia's development.
21.      Between 1968 and 1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA
terms. Following the rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income, it was
decided that all lending to Indonesia after June 30, 1974, would be on Bank
terms. Since 1974, the Government has saved and invested almost all of the
increase in its oil revenues and greatly expanded its development expenditures
which reached about $6 billion in 1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I
above, it now appears, however, that both the budgetary and balance of
payments situation is again likely to become more difficult in the years
ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always qualified for assistance on conces-
sional terms on grounds of its low per capita income ($240 in 1977) and the
quality of its economic management, such terms are now also necessary to
enable it to maintain a high level of investment without impairing its
ability to service its external debt. The Bank has accordingly informed the
Government that, starting in FY78, it will provide a portion of its lending
on IDA terms.
22.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has financed, from time to time,
part of the local cost of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution
to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia now faces
a more difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's efforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are
likely to increase very slowly, if at all. At the same time, the Government



- 8 -
is attempting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employment-
creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture and the
social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency. The Bank
Group cannot provide adequate assistance to the Government's overall develop-
ment effort if it limits its financing to the foreign exchange cost of
projects, and future Bank Group financing will, therefore, include a portion
of the local costs particularly in the case of projects designed to create
nonfarm employment and raise agricultural production.
23.      The proposed credit is the eighth lending operation presented to
the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $440 million. A project for nucleus estate and
smallholders is expected to be ready for presentation in the next few weeks
and projects for technician, accountancy and agricultural training, rural and
urban development, transmigration and road betterment in the next several
months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
Major Issues
24.       The major interrelated problems of the agricultural and rural
sector in Indonesia are to create productive employment opportunites, raise
the incomes of the rural poor, increase domestic food supply to keep pace
with rising demand, expand production of agricultural exports, particularly
smallholder tree crops, and ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's
land, water and other natural resources. Their solution will necessarily
involve complex and sometimes novel technical and organizational approaches,
along with attendant risks that must be recognized and accepted if programs
are to be developed to deal with Indonesia's problems on the requisite scale.
The risks of action must be weighed against the risks of inaction in the face
of widespread poverty and underemployment, growing food import requirements,
and ecological damage caused by deforestation.
Role and Performance of the Sector
25.       Although its contribution to GDP and exports has declined during
the last 15 years, the agricultural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, income
and food production. Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live
in rural areas. With the exception of oil palm and tea, agriculture is
dominated by smallholder production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders
producing subsistence and cash crops on 14.2 million ha and 1,800 large
estates occupying 2.2 million ha. Over the five years to 1976, the growth
rate of agricultural production has averaged 3.8%. Over 1975-77, rice output
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on Inter-Censal Population Survey of
March 1976.



- 9 -
failed to rise appreciably due to a variety of causes including the spread of
pests and disease damage to high yielding varieties and difficulties with the
Production Credit Program (BIMAS). Production of a number of export crops,
particularly rubber, oil palm, tea and coffee, has, however, continued to
grow substantially.
Sector Strategies
26.       Food Crops.  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production in the
past, recent developments suggest a widening gap between domestic production
and demand for food. The rate of growth of rice production has declined in
recent years and the principal non-rice food crops have stagnated. To keep
rice imports below some reasonable fraction of world trade in rice, demand
must be shifted to other domestic and imported staples and production must
grow at around 4% per year. Improved water management and agricultural
supporting services, including effective credit programs, are essential for
increasing rice yields and production. On Java there remains a scope for
construction of additional tertiary and quaternary canals while on the other
islands there is potential for new irrigation systems including tidal and
swamp land development. Efforts to increase rice production must include an
intensified research and extension effort to solve the pest and disease
problem. There is much room for yield improvement through intensified
research and extension services and improved credit schemes, and tremendous
scope for area expansion in the other islands if stable, long-term cropping
systems can be developed. In addition, a food policy which emphasizes upland
crop production as well as rice would serve the twin goals of growth and
equity better than a policy aimed exclusively at rice, as many of the poorest
parts of Java and the other islands are best suited to dry land farming.
27.       Transmigration.  Transmigration offers challenging opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor, and land in the other islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional development and the solution of Java's
population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. These problems are now being addressed. The present focus is on the
organizational aspects of transmigration, the development of an economically
viable farming system, and the design of a least cost package of services
needed to ensure successful, long-term settlement.
28.       Perennial Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder perennial crops, especially outside Java, as part of its
transmigration and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The
objective is to improve production on existing blocks while developing large
areas of new land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches
has been to use public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be
settled by local landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies
provide a range of services including planting material, land clearing and
planting, inputs, processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders.
This approach is well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and
technical capabilities.



- 10 -
29.       Livestock and Fisheries.  Government programs in these subsectors
are directed towards improving the incomes and employment opportunities of
smallholders and small fishermen. The cattle are primarily multi-purpose
animals, used for agricultural work, manure, meat and sometimes milk. Except
for a few ranches, almost all of the 6.2 million cattle are owned by small-
holders, and integrated into their farming activities. Efforts now emphasize
breeding draft animals, as the high slaughter rate of animals for meat, the
growing need for draft animals on the other islands, the depletion of the
herds on certain eastern islands, and the recent outbreak of Gembrana disease
have created a shortage of draft power. Regarding fisheries, only the marine
branch is dominated by large commercial enterprises; coastal fisheries
employ some 850,000, fish cultivation, 500,000, and inland fishing another
700,000 people, mostly poor and landless.
Bank Lending Strategy
30.       The Bank Group has been and should continue to be involved in a
broad range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia.  Since the
first irrigation credit in 1968 the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder
tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support
services, transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural
development project is currently being appraised. Of the three credits
closed within the last year (Estates I, Irrigation I and Pusri Fertilizer),
all showed excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as
base year, Bank Group financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the
increase in palm oil output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production
and 6% of incremental rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in Bank Group
agricultural lending to Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new
development activities; (b) a shift from support of state enterprises to
direct support of smallholders; (c) an increased emphasis on rainfed systems;
and (d) greater emphasis on development of the other islands. All these
trends are consistent with the Government's changing policies.
The Agricultural Credit Subsector
31.       Until about ten years ago, almost the only source of credit for
smallholders was from local patrons or moneylenders, with high explicit or
implicit interest rates. Even today, these remain an important source
of credit, and many farmers are deply in debt to them. Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI) is by far the largest source of institutional credit for smallholders,
and Bank Bumi Daya the main source for estates. Institutional credit for
smallholders is almost always on a somewhat subsidized basis, the interest
rate is 12% for most short-term credit programs (such as BIMAS), and was
recently reduced from 12% to 10.5% for the medium-term investment credit
program (KIK) and from 15% to 12% for the medium-term working capital credit
progam (KMKP), following the significant decline in the inflation rate (para.
6). Short-term production credit for rice and other crops is available under
BIMAS and certain KMKP programs. Medium-term investment and working capital
are financed under BRI's Mini-Credit program if below Rp 100,000, the KIK/KMKP



- 11 -
program up to Rp 5 million, and the general investment credit (KIB) program
above that. Until January 1978, long-term finance was available only under a
number of Bank Group- or ADB-financed projects for particular commodities in
specified areas; now lending under KIB can be for up to ten years.
32.       Under BIMAS, farmers get extension advice, and obtain loans from
BRI for inputs (fertilizers, seed and agrochemicals) and subsistence expenses.
The BIMAS program, which concentrates on rice and some secondary crops,
commenced in 1965, and by 1974/75 covered almost 25% of the wet season paddy
area and about 5% of the area under dry season secondary crops. The program
covers the main irrigated areas in Java, but has been less successful in
spreading to the other islands.  It has recently been experiencing relatively
high arrears, due to a variety of factors, including the spread of pests and
adverse weather. As borrowers with two or more seasons in arrears are
generally ineligible for further loans, these arrears have limited the
coverage of BIMAS.
33.       About 22% of KIK and 11% of KMKP finance has gone to agriculture,
to meet medium-term investment and incremental working capital needs of a
wide variety of activities. The main uses of KIK agricultural lending have
been for warehouses, drying floors, fishponds, fishing boats, draft animals,
poultry, rice mills and water pumps. KMKP operations have been used for
pepper, cloves, poultry, cattle fattening, fisheries, tobacco, cotton and
sugar cane.
34.       Under the Bank Group-financed Smallholder and Private Estates Tea
and Fisheries Credit Projects, and the ADB-financed East Java Agricultural
Credit Project, BRI appraises, extends and assumes the risk on individual
loans. Under the Bank Group-financed North Sumatra Smallholders, and Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders I Projects, rubber and oil palm areas are block-
planted, and then handed over to smallholders who assume the repayment obliga-
tion to BRI, which has neither appraised the individual loans, nor assumed
the risk of non-repayment. The proposed project, which uses the first
approach, would help meet the growing need for long-term agricultural credit
in several subsectors and would strengthen BRI's ability to handle its wide
range of credit programs.
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
35.       BRI is the main institutional source of rural credit in Indonesia,
and has the largest staff (22,000 people) and branch network of the five
state-owned commercial banks. BRI's operations, primarily under Government
credit programs, have expanded rapidly since 1971. This expansion exacerbated
a number of institutional problems, such as the shortage of high-calibre
staff (especially technical people), inconsistently applied credit procedures,
an excessively complicated accounting system and a poor management information
and control system. Cognizant of the situation, BRI has been taking steps to
remedy them including a new promotion system for technical staff, the prepara-
tion of detailed procedure manuals for its various credit programs, and
improved accounting and management information systems. The Association,
through the proposed project, would be supporting BRI's efforts.



- 12 -
36.       BRI operates on a decentralized branch-banking basis with a head
office in Jakarta, 13 regional offices, 267 branches, 63 sub-branches, 3,270
village units, and 113 mobile units. The head office performs essentially
planning and control functions, along with general administration. Regional
offices act as extensions of the head office in supervising and coordinating
branch activities. Branches are BRI's main organizational units; they carry
out most of the lending and are primarily responsible for deposits and
savings mobilization. Village and mobile units operate as appendages to
branches, primarily for the BIMAS and Mini-Credit programs.
37.       BRI's disbursements  rose from $0.3 billion in 1971 to $2.4 billion
in 1975, but dropped to $2.1 billion in 1976, essentially as a result of
tighter BI ceilings on general commercial credit. Although short-term
lending still accounted for 95% of total disbursements in 1976, medium- and
long-term lending have been gradually assuming greater importance.
38.       BRI's net income reached a peak of $13.3 million in 1974, but
dropped steadily to $1.9 million in 1977. The two main reasons for this
trend are (a) BRI's expanded lending to small borrowers, and the decline of
BRI's two large profitable operations, fertilizer import financing and
commercial lending, and (b) the increase in relatively high-interest time and
savings deposits as a source of BRI funds.
39.       At year-end 1977, BRI's total assets stood at $1.6 billion.  BRI's
liquidity position appears sound, as does its present long-term capital
structure (long-term debt/equity 1.5:1). BRI's overall capital structure has
improved substantially in recent years; its debt/equity ratio decreased from
40:1 in 1973 to 13:1 in 1977, primarily as a result of increased contributions
from the Government and Bank Indonesia, which are interest free and have no
fixed repayment schedule.
40.       Despite recent improvements, overdue accounts remain BRI's main
financial problem.   BRI's arrears problem is largely traceable to the
complexities of smallholder financing. BRI is currently implementing its
first three-year (1977-1980) program to reduce loan arrears. Partial implemen-
tation of the program had already reduced the percentage of loan arrears in
the general commercial lending portfolio from 42% at year-end 1976 to 23% at
year-end 1977, and overall arrears from 25% to 23%. The present level of
BRI's provision for doubtful accounts ($27 million) appears adequate.
41.       Under the BRI Modernization Project, financed by the Asian Develop-
ment Bank,  a new accounting system built around the use of electromechanical
accounting machines was introduced in BRI's Java branches. Concomitantly,
to achieve consistency, a new manual accounting system was to be developed



- 13 -
and introduced in all nonmechanized branches. Since, the latter part of the
project was not carried out fully, BRI hired consultants to review its
accounting system and propose corrective action. They have completed the
design of a new manual accounting system, and are now testing that system as
well as improving BRI's management information system.
42.       Under its charter, BRI's accounts are audited annually by the State
Accountancy Directorate (DAN), whose reports are presently prepared in a form
and detail which makes it difficult to reach a judgment on some essential
aspects of BRI's financial condition.   During negotiations, an understanding
was reached that an auditing expert would be sent by the Association to
discuss the scope and detail of the general audit report on BRI.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project was prepared by BRI, based on an FAO study,
and with the cooperation of various directorates of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. The project was appraised in October/November 1976, with follow-up
discussions in Indonesia during March and November 1977. Delays resulted
from the need to coordinate between BRI and the other Government agencies
concerned, and from the Government's decision to resolve issues regarding the
KIK/KMKP program in the context of the Small Enterprise Development Project
(SEDP) before proceeding with this project. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
1741-IND, dated June 1, 1978) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from May 2 to 8, 1978 with the Indonesian delegation led by Dr. Saleh Afiff,
Deputy Chairman of the National Planning Agency.
Objectives
44.       The project would expand and improve the supply of term credit to
smallholders by (a) providing funds through BRI for long-term lending in
selected geographic areas for a range of agricultural activities, and (b)
strengthening BRI through technical assistance, to enable it to implement
properly the lending both under the project and under its other term credit
programs, especially KIK/KMKP. It would be implemented in selected branches
throughout Java (East, Central and West Java, and Yogyakarta), in South
Sulawesi, South Sumatra, Lampung (Sumatra) and such other provinces as BRI
and the Association might agree on at a later date. These seven provinces
have been selected on the basis of their present need for long-term agricul-
tural credit and BRI's local implementation capacity, with due regard for the
balance between Java, where BRI's capability is highest, and other islands,
where the scope for long-term credit, especially for treecrops and livestock,
is greatest.
Detailed Features of the Project
45.       The project would consist of (a) about 40,000 long-term subloans
($41.0 million); (b) about twenty man-years of consultancy on term-lending
($1.5 million); (c) about three man-years of consultancy for BRI's accounting,



- 14 -
management information and related systems ($0.3 million); (d) training for
key BRI term-lending staff ($0.2 million); and (e) an evaluation study of the
project's socio-economic impact ($0.5 million).
46.       Seven subloan categories requiring term-finance beyond five years
have been appraised as economically and financially viable: pepper, coffee,
cattle breeding, brackish-water fishponds, freshwater fishponds, fishing boat
motorization and ice plants. Other agricultural categories may be added
during implementation, with the Association's approval.   In addition, a
small miscellaneous category would be included, for subloan categories too
small to warrant individual approval by the Association. BRI would prepare
annual lending programs for the approved categories; for each such category,
the Association's agreement would be required for the target amount of
lending, the provinces in which lending would take place, and the extent of
technical support required from the Government (Section 2.07 of the Project
Agreement).   The Government would strengthen the capabilities of the
Directorates General of Estate Crops, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries located
in the project area to provide adequate extension and other supporting
services to project subborrowers (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement).
The average subproject cost would be about $1,000 (1977 prices), and the
subloans would generally be from 5-1/2 to about 11 years (loans 5 years or
less are covered by the KIK/KMKP program). The subloan ceilings would generally
be set at or below $12,000 (the present KIK/KMKP ceiling).
47.       Perennial crops.  Because of their long gestation period, perennial
crops generally require long-term finance for investment.  BRI's experience
with perennial-crop finance has so far been limited to short-term clove and
pepper intensification under KMKP. Under the project, BRI would begin
financing investment in smallholder pepper (2,800 ha) and coffee (2,500 ha),
both high-value crops, in limited areas in South Sumatra and Lampung provinces.
48.       Cattle breeding.  Cattle breeding is of high priority in view of the
serious shortage of draft animals in Java and Sumatra. The Directorate
General of Animal Husbandry and BRI have developed a credit package for
cattle breeding consisting of credit to smallholders for the purchase of
cows, as well as cattle sheds, veterinary supplies and supplementary feed. The
basic objectives are to increase the calving rate and reduce the slaughter of
breeding cows. The project would finance part of this program, involving
purchase of some 30,000 cows. For South Sulawesi and East Java, the cattle
could probably all be procured locally, whereas for Central Java, Yogyakarta
and especially Lampung, some would need to be brought in from other provinces,
or imported.
49.       Fisheries.  Fisheries lending would be for: (a)  brackish-water
fishponds - improvement of about 22,000 ha of existing ponds along the
north coast of Java and in South Sulawesi; this would be a continuation of a
component of the Fisheries Credit Project (Cr. 480-IND) which is expected to
be fully committed by early 1979; (b) freshwater fishponds - pond deepening
and improvement of dikes and inlets for some 1,500 ha in West Java, with
improved pond design, expanded extension work, and increased use of feed and
organic fertilizer; so far credit has been given under the KIK and Mini-Credit



- 15 -
programs, but without supporting technical services; (c) fishing boat
motorization - a pilot program involving inboard motors for about 250 sailing
boats at selected ports in Java and South Sulawesi, where new shore facilities
are being constructed; and (d) iceplants - about 10 small iceplanLs, primarily
to serve fishermen in Java and South Sulawesi; iceplant subloans would be
made after subloans have been made for the 9 small iceplants to be financed
under the Fisheries Credit Project (Cr. 480-IND).
Project Management
50.       As regards term lending, the project aims to strengthen the planning,
training and monitoring ability of BRI's head office, the supervisory role of
its regional offices, and the implementation capacity of its branches.
Within the Planning Bureau, the new Program Development Department would, in
coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture, prepare annual lending
programs and develop new subloan categories. Within the Investment Credit
Bureau, the existing Project Aid Department, which supervises implemen-
tation of BRI's ongoing externally-financed projects, would also handle
implementation and monitoring of the proposed project. The Education Bureau
would assess the need for and provide special training in term lending for
BRI staff at all levels. At negotiations, BRI reviewed with the Association
the organization and staffing for term lending of the participating regional
offices, as well as the Program Development Department and the Project Aid
Department; these appear satisfactory.
51.       Some 55 branches would make subloans under the project, with about
25 participating in the first year, 15 more the second year, and the final
15 joining in the third year. One constraint on the rate of entry of new
branches is expected to be the regional offices' ability to supervise them
adequately.   It is expected that at least one loan officer and one supervisor
in term lending would be trained before entry of a branch into the project.
In addition, BRI would take the necessary measures to ensure satisfactory
collections of project subloans, and would review these measures and the
results with the Association (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance
52.       About twenty man-years of technical assistance in term lending
would be financed by the project, consisting of an economist, a training
specialist, three development bankers (one at the head office and two in the
regional offices), and three agriculturalists (one each for livestock,
fisheries and perennial crops; these are expected to be Indonesians). Two
consultants from Price Waterhouse, who were financed for a year under the
ADB-financed BRI Modernization Project, which closed on April 30, 1977, would
be retained under the project for about three man-years, and expenditures
amounting to about $300,000 for their services starting May 1, 1977 would be
retroactively financed under the proposed credit. Since that date, the
consultants have completed the design and testing of a unified chart of
accounts and a management information system built around it, and are starting
to supervise its implementation.



- 16 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       BRI would obtain assistance from a suitable Indonesian research
center or university to (a) help develop BRI's own subloan monitoring and
evaluation capability, and (b) design and help implement a study to evaluate
the impact on production, income, employment, and marketing of a sample of
project subloans. After a two-year contract period, BRI would itself carry
out most of the evaluation study, except probably some of the data analysis.
Overall, an eight-year study will be carried out to cover the long gestation
period of the tree-crop subloans.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       Total project cost is estimated at $60 million of which foreign
exchange costs would be $9.5 million, or 16% of the total. The proposed IDA
credit would finance 50% of total project cost, including $20.5 million of
local cost. The local cost financing would enable the Association to provide
support to the Government's overall development effort and particularly in
raising agricultural production (see para. 22). The credit would be made to
the Government, which would relend it to BRI at a rate of 3%. BRI would put
up 20% of the subloan finance, and the remainder would come from Bank Indonesia,
also at 3% per annum.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
55.       The terms and conditions, policies and procedures governing the
KIK/KMKP program would generally be adopted for the project. In particular,
interest at 10.5% p.a. would be charged on the investment portion of all
subloans, and 12% p.a. on any working capital loans; in addition, penalty
interest of 3% p.a. would be charged on any amounts more than 90 days in
arrears. The applicable KIK/KMKP rules and regulations could in the future
be modified by BI, provided that, in the opinion of the Association, such
modification did not materially and adversely affect the project's objectives
or implementation (Section 4.01(e) of the Credit Agreement). BRI would
obtain credit insurance with the Indonesian Credit Insurance Agency (ASKRINDO)
for 75% of the amount of the subloan. Two exceptions from the KIK rules
would be that: (a) subloans would be for more than 5 years, up to a maximum
of 15 years, including an appropriate grace period during which interest may
be capitalized; and (b) subloan amounts and the net worth and net current
assets of subborrowers may exceed the KIK ceilings, where justified on a
category by category basis. BRI would have the same interest spread under
the project (5.8% p.a.) as it receives for KIK lending.
Disbursement
56.       Disbursements of the proposed credit would cover:  (a) 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for training;
(b) 100% of expenditures on consultants; and (c) 68% of BI advances to BRI
for the credit component, supported by certificates of expenditure from BRI,
certifying the subloan amount disbursed. The loan-by-loan documentation for the



- 17 -
certificates of expenditure would be retained by BRI and made available for
review by the Association. Retroactive financing of up to $300,000 is
recommended for consultant services (para. 52). Disbursements are expected
to be completed by September 1984.
Procurement
57.       Given the small size and wide geographic and temporal spread of the
subloans, bulking for the purpose of carrying out competitive bidding would
not be feasible. Procurement would therefore be through regular commercial
channels, with assistance in some cases from the Ministry of Agriculture.
Procurement arrangements for individual subloan categories would be prepared
by BRI as part of its annual lending programs, and reviewed by the Association.
Project Implementation
58.       BRI would keep separate accounts of its approvals, disbursements,
collections and arrears under the project. These accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 2.05,
paras. (b) and (c) of the Project Agreement). BRI would also submit semi-
annual and annual progress reports to the Association. The latter would
form the basis of joint annual reviews of the project by BRI, BI and IDA, at
which, inter alia, the annual lending program for the forthcoming year would
be agreed upon (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
59.       Terms of reference and a short list for the term-lending consultants
have been with the Association, and BRI is expected to send out the proposals
around June 1, 1978. The first term lending consultants are expected to be
in the field by January 1979, and project sublending to begin around April,
1979.
Production and Marketing
60.       The anticipated incremental annual output at full production from
project subloans (in 1977 prices) would be about $15.1 million of goods for
export and $9.4 million of domestically traded goods, excluding the unidenti-
fied categories. Existing private marketing channels would be adequate to
handle the incremental exports of pepper, coffee and shrimp. The cattle
would be for local use, or shipped to other islands, primarily as draft
animals. The fish would all be consumed locally. The fish marketing system
is being assisted under other programs, as well as by the credit for small
ice plants under the Fisheries Credit Project (Cr. 480-IND). Ice from ice
plants financed under the proposed project would be sold locally to both
fishermen and other consumers.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.       The project would directly increase the incomes of some 40,000
small farmers and fishermen, most of whom are quite poor. BRI, with assist-
ance from the Ministry of Agriculture, would make special efforts to ensure



- 18 -
that the coverage of poorer farmers increases over time. Permanent incre-
mental employment resulting from the project (identified categories only)
would be about 5,000 jobs; some 60-70% of these would probably be for family
labor, and the rest hired. About 35,000 man-years construction work would be
required, almost entirely for the fishponds; hired labor would generally be
used.
62.       The perennial crop categories (pepper, coffee) are important for
foreign exchange earnings. The cattle breeding category would reduce
Indonesia's growing shortage of draft animals and the proposed project would
expand the market for breeding cows, increase the calving rate from 35-40% to
50% and move some of the cattle to areas where they are needed for draft and
manure in integrated rice farming operations. The fisheries categories would
increase the domestic supply of fish, Indonesia's chief source of animal
protein. The ice plants would reduce spoilage of fish and enable more to be
sold fresh at higher prices than dried or salted fish.
63.       The project would also strengthen BRI's term-lending capability at
the head, regional and branch office levels, in both planning and implementa-
tion, and would, in particular, improve BRI's ability to carry out the
KIK/KMKP program efficiently. It would also improve BRI's accounting
and management information systems.
64.       The economic rates of return would be 12-14% for the perennial
crops, 24% for cattle breeding, and 20-53% for the fisheries categories, with
a weighted average of 27%.
65.       The main risk is that BRI might not be able to implement the project
properly, in view of BRI's staffing constraints, lack of consistency in credit
procedure, inadequate internal controls, and the wide range of its other
programs, and hence, the possibility that BRI would be further overloaded.
To reduce the likelihood and potential impact of this risk, the project
stresses the institutional development of BRI. The steps BRI has taken in a
number of areas over the past year also provide grounds for optimism. An
additional risk is that technical support to subborrowers might not always be
adequate. BRI would therefore have to review very closely the technical
support available to each activity when drawing up its annual lending programs
under the project and coordinate closely with the Ministry of Agriculture.
Should either BRI or the Ministry of Agriculture be unable to handle adequately
the projected volume of lending, the rate of project lending would be adjusted
downwards, and the commitment period for project subloans increased accordingly.
Environmental Effects
66.       The environmental impact of the project would be limited, because
in most cases land use would not be changed. Some limited water pollution
would result from the use of fertilizer, insecticide and fungicide for the



- 19 -
perennial crops. The insecticides and fungicides, while quite toxic, would
not cause serious problems as they would be sprayed directly on the trees, in
limited quantities. On the positive side, both the fresh-and brackish-water
fishponds would be excellent for recycling organic waste.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and Bank
Rakyat Indonesia, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Features of the Credit and Project Agreements of special interest
are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report. Additional conditions
of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement would be the execution and delivery
of the Project Agreement and of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Section 5.01
of the Credit Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
June 1, 1978






AUM=I
TABLE 3APae1o4pgs
INDONESIA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
------_--------                                   INDONESIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      1904.3                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      283.8                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE            BANGLADESH    INDIA           PHILIPPINES**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      90.0 *  130.0*    240.0 */a               80-0*      100.0*      230.0*
____________________
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            94,7      117.6      135.2 /a             70.8       547.6        36.1
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        50.0       62.0       71 0 /a            4C2.0       167.0       123.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       337.0      419.0      476.0  L             730.0       308.0       375.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.0       45.9       42.9                50.3        41.0        44.2
CRUDE DEATH kATE (/THOU.AV)           25.4       20.6       16.9                22.9        19.0        13.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       125.0 /a,b           ..                       ..          ..        61.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        47.5         *-       48.1                43.3        47.2        55.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8 |c    3.2         3.1                 3.1         2.9         3.3
POPUL TION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOtAL                                  2.1        2.0        2.4                 2.8         2.3         3.0
URBAN                                   *-        3-7 g      4 1                 6.2         3.2         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           14.9       17.5 /b   18.2                  6.4        19.8        27.6
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.1 Ia   44 0        43.                   ..        41.6        45.6
15 TO 64 YEARS                       S.3 I    53.5         53.6 /a               ..        55.3        51.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.6Z/      2.5        2.5 f                ..         3.1         2.8
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9                             ..         0.8         0-
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         ..          3 b.          1.1 A  .         - J            '5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      259.3 /C 6'76.2j/                 ..    14585.0        320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         34600.0          ..   44200.0 4           22300.0   218000.0    12400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          75.0          .-      69.0 .              71.0        69.0        55.0 /&
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           d5.4          .-       5.4 r,               ..          ..         7.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               *-         *-       337-7               ' 16-7 a    2560
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..       52.0 Ic             42 3 /a    53.1
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..        6.8  a                          4. 13
LOWEST  40% Of HCUSEHOLDS               ..         ..       17.3  a             '9 1jE    12  
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_______________________ ____
% OWNED BY TOP tOX OF OWNERS            48.0 /b       ..        ..                34.0 /b
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           3.0  b        .         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             41380.oLb26830.0  16930.0                  7600.0 /c  4890.0
POPULATION PER NUR.ING PERSON             ..                                  7       2       20.0  
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           137O.0Ob 16700 .0  14300                  81 200.0k  18tO.O      S50.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES {X OF REQUIREMENTS)          89.0       91.0       98.0                a S0 /e    93.0         93.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               43.0       43.0      43.8                   ..       53.0        45.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          15-i0/L    14.0      16.6                   *-        16.0        22.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..        ..         ..                  ..          ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       67.0       68.0        79.0 /C            50.0 IZ    65.0        113.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       6.0       12.0       19.0               15.07          *.       49.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0               10.0        12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      20.0       29.0      32 0                 1.0         6.0 /d      6.o /b
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X}                 47.0 /e   59.0        62:0 Lh               ..       33.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PL. ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..        1.6 /b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER {X)                         ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..        76.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..        23.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..         7.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           7.0          -      39.0                 6.0        21.0        72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        2.0       3.0                 0.4         1 .o
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            15.0       20.0      26.0                20.0       114.0       235.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2       0.4        0.4                 .0.1        0.3         2.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 6 pages
One. oth-ri.o ooted, data fw 19-60 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 19-70 between 1968 and 1970, and for most Rent Rotinaste betwen
1973 and 1975.
G NP par capita date ram based on the World Bank Atsan seathodology (1974,76 b.ats).
the Philippioee has been selected as an objective country for its geographical similarity  and becauase of its apparent advance stage of aconaic
d-vlopacaa-t
nf"ES1A         1960    Ia  Excludes Weat Irian;    /b  1962;    Ic  1951-56;    /d  1961-63;    /a~ 1C years and over, ability to read and wwta
in either Latin or non.Letln characters.
1970    /a  1961-71;    lb  1971;    le  1968-70;    /d  including nursee-mdvives.
MOST RECENr ESTmIATh;    /s  1976;    lb  1971;    L.  1968-75;    /d  Moetly unployed workere seeking their first job;    /a  I-ncom
recipienta;,    If  Including midwivee ;    LI  Net earollent.    /h  10 years and over, ability to read and
write in either Latin or non-latin characters.
BANGLADESR      1970    /   1966-67;    lb  1967-68;    /c  Regiatered, not all Practicing in the country;    /d  Govreamanrt hoapital astablishaeonts
only;    le  Average 1969-71;         /f  Approut.te enrollumet as paerontage of population int 6-10 cod 11-15 age groups
respectively.
111010          1970    IaRatio of Population under 15 end 65 and  -ovr to labor force age 15 and  wovr;    /b  1967-68;    le  Includins midwives;
/d 1967.
PHILIPPINEtS   1970      /AsPa prc...tago of mployment;    /b  Not  including Private vocational schools.
R18, January 26, 1978
D"mlT10,a or SOCIaL 5DWICAT?N
I Ar.a (rh-o k.;                                                                          Po::latio  par  nirain  Parana - Popol.tice divided by eanbar of praticing
o.L,l1 - Tot.l -urfacerarc  coprising land area ad inlend wtatrs.                              eal  end fae graduac  nurses, 'trained" or 'certified" nuss   nd
kzrL.. - Most reet actinate of  gericlrural ares ased tceporarily or pmor-                      auxniliary personnel with training or experience.
tayfarcrp,  p.stor-c,  -sria  & kitchen garden  or to lie fellow,.                      Powlat!on Par hospital bed - Population, ditded by  .cA., of hospital bode
availble in public and private panstal  .Ad  Specl1ied hoopita1 and
GN? par canit. (US$) - GNP per .apita .atinaten at currant earbkt  rica,                        rehabilitation .cantrn; excldes mrarig hose. and .atablihb.et. for
tab1la-d by san  oonvrion esthod .. World Bnak Atlas  (1973-75 basis);                        cuatodial and preventive, care.
19b0; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calortas i% of requiraoem,s    Cnput.d fran oenery
eqiaen   fnt food supplisa avcilabl. in co-ntry per capita per day;
Pop.lation and vital statistic!                                                                 aailable suppie  tanprisa danstic production, Laports lace exports, ..d
P.p.l.tioa leid-voar elSion)   As of July fist,t  if not svsil.ble.  -oarag                      hangea in stocb  net suppIles exclude snial fced, seeds. quantitries uad
of two end-year ..timaten; 1'-60, 1970 ad 1975 data,                                          in food processing and loacas in distribution; requiraowta were aetisat.d
by FAD baeed Mn phyato1ogi..l osed  for nereal ..otiity and health coeid-
Population densty   p ar es-r  he1 - Mid-year populAtion per square kilintar                    ering evirooseate1 tasperetura, body wigbts, aSs and sex dintrihucio, of
(100 bectar..) of total ares.                                                                 population, ad alloining lOt for wact. at ho-shold leve.
Population densty   peor souare he of seic. land - Canputed as above for                      Par tayit. .uonly of Dr.t.in (arsa  par day) - Protein rarest of per capita
eg utcLeland only.                                                                     net .upply of fad per day; aot supply of food is defined as sove ; require-
ants for all cotries established by USDA tc.-aLc Rane-ro  S.rsine
viral statietice                                                                                provide for a xilao  all-ouenc  of 60 green of total protein per day, end
Crud  bith  ets  ar houand.eveoss- Annea  live births per thousand of                20 grm  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gras should be axial
nil-year pop.lotion; ra-year arithmetio evarages anding in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these standards  -r  Isar then those of 75 grease of total protain
ard fiva-yxar awarag. -ding in 1975 for eat recent estioate,                                  and 23 grin  of animal protein as an averaga for the world, propceed by FA0
Crude death veto par thouand. averaec - Annua deathe per thousand of aid-year                   Ln the ThLrd World Fond Survey.
population; te-year  rnitheatioavcaa  ending in 1960 and t970 end fia-                      Par ..nit. orot.i.  vaup2, fr-n anic1 and 7utI" - Pr.t.in apply of food
year average ending in 1975 for neat recent satinat..                                         derived fran animlal  end pulses in grena per day.
Infant wartality rats I/thou)- Annual deaths of infants under ona, Year of age                Death rats I/thou) sass 1-4 - Annual deaths per tho..a..d in no, group I-4
per thousand lIve births.                                                                     yeamr, to children in chi. age group; suggested as an Lodic-tr of
Life c..Dctaoy ct birth (yrr)  -Avrage n,bar of yasra of lifs raLiing at                       -ealutritLon.
birth; usualIly five-year wavrgo ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for devlop-
tag cowntries.                                                                              3ducation
Irosa reproduction rats - Average nabar of live daughter.s .wsn wrill boar                    Adiusted enrollment ra.tio - primar, school - Enrolmsent of all ag.a as per-
in her  rnote   reproductive period if she eaprienos present age-specific                     cantage of prier  schol-ag  popultion; incldes children aged 6-1l yec."
fertility ratas; ososlly fin-year averages ening in 1960, 1970 ad  1975                       but adjusted for different lengthe of primary education; for coutris. with
for doveloping countrisa.                                                                     universal education, onrollmsnt may exceed 1001 sine. easepupils are below
population growth rats (%) - total - Conpotmd annual grooth reces of aid-yeer                   or above the offinial school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                                Adiusied e rolnntra,tio - secondars school - Coaputed sa abov; sacondary
Rtyulation Krovr1o rate Cl) - utb.. - Canputed like grmoch rtac  of total                       edcaio  rqire     laset four yeanr of approved priesry iostruction;
Population; different definitions of urban stean wy effect camparability of                   provides gpostal, vocational. or teacher training instructions for pupils
date ang cc.atries.                                                                           of 12 to 17 year. of age; correapadeano  courses areS g.. rally  xcludsd.
urbgn enoulation Cl of toutal  - SAtin of urbac to total Population; diffareet                Yer  fetelaornddfi.a                       edlvIs     oa  yeamr of
definitions of urban area  may sffat caparability of date   ongm couantries.                  aeelola   eadr   ex,vctonlIaosto    ay he partially or
tapltealy excluded.
Acetirctus Icn,ent  -Children, (0-li yea."), wokiag-ags (15-66 Years),                 Vocationa enrllmst CL of secondary) - Vocationl in :titutlase include
sod, reird (6; I-!re, ad over) as percentages of n1d-year Population.                          tehia,indestril or other progri  which opeate iodepadently or as
dce deedonoy  -,tio  - Ratio of popuLation under 15 and 65 and over to those                  dopertsants of secondary institutions.
of age  1) th.rough Af4.                                                                    Adult liter-Y rats (70 - Litr.t. adu1ta (ahl. to read and -lit.; as par-
~oani. daxe-decy ratio - iRaio of population under 13 end 65 and ovr to                       cntaga of total adult population  gagd 15 y.a.. and over.
t le1bor for", in &g. group of 1-6ya
~t1volaxini- scaptr. Icoanltle  thou)   - Cnuativ. nuehar of acceapto.-               jfus J
o,f oirth-con-rol davits. ondar ...pi... of na.tional faily planning progres                Persons par ro-  (urban) - Average nobhr of peroona per roe  in occupied
einoa icroclon.                                                       c~~~~~~~~~~~~onventisnel dwellings 10, urban ar...; dwellings eeclud.  -o-p-rmnor
Fowil clac O~ue.r. Cl of earned wanen) - Percent*gn  of earned wonan, of                    structures  and  --occpiad parts.
C  '-o a-, (15-44 yesra) who use birth-control devic*a to all earricd               Occuxiad d,.llince without piped water C) - Ocpied covnioa                -wiliuC
-o o   ooc.  ag  group.                                                                     in urban axd curel ar.es without ma.ids or outside piped cater Uatilities
as percntage of all ocoupi.d dwellings.
~9jlo'2onnt                                                                                   66ae to electricity (l of all d.eallincsl - Convetional Awlii   ith
TotaLl lbor Vlo  (_thqo-sad) - Eoonaically active pereo, including aned                         elactricity In living qeartara es percet vf to.). dwellings in orb.n and
fo....e..    <c,,oind but necluding housewives, atudents, etc.; definitions                   rural area.
Lo .al,               . cisacnt ...Perebl..                                            Rurrl dulinies eaneotad tn ea-tricity It) - Casputd as abov  for rural
Loloor forts lv ari..lnure Cl) - AgMutwr.1 labor forts (in farming, forestry,                   dwellings only.
hunting ~- ic.hLng) asa percentage of total labor forc..
-..lre~1o  labor force) -Uonaployed sre usually defined as persons wh.                 Consanaption
aeable end willing to take   job, out of a job an o given day, rasoined out               Radioreivs (poar thou anyl - All types of ro-iv-ra  for radio br..adoacts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimaes Period not exceeding one                   to general public per thousand of Population; excludes o1ic.....d retiners
ouc; nay ear be cnp-rbl. botwen, countries due to different definitionn                       in couxtvi.senad in years when regiatratioo of radio s.ra w.s in affect;
.'f  oaployd end  -or-  of data, a.., - plynat  ffi.aaaieis   aespl.                          date fo  rtenant year. nay not he cpanrable alcoa e-s  -otri.. abolished
- <.ys,  unp7vor  unploynet lnwrnoa.                                                    lIcensins.
Ps ...namr care (or thou one) - Pasaenger cars capri.c  ton cars seatting
_LaaqELdintrikution  - Percent.se of pniv-ra incoss (both in .ach and kind)                      lose than eight persons; exclude..sabulanna, he.-..eeand ellitary
recivd by rirhest 5%. riches  201. poorest 201, and poornt 401 of bout-                       vehicle.
holds.                                                                                      tEc.trt.ity (kwh/yr oar cap) - An-ual consanption of Indus trial .   -anrci.i
Public sod private electricity in kilovtt bout  per c-pita. generall
-rihution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wesithixat ID%                     based on production dsia,  ithout allowance far loess  in grid. but allow-
cod pooreet 107. of lad ounare.                                                               Ing for tpmpot  and exports of electricity.
Nlewsprint (ka/yr par ..P) - per caPit annuael Consaeption, in kilograse
mold soh.d Nutri tion                                                                           estimated1 fran danatit production. plea   t iports of nas.print.
coolCion Mer physician - Population dIitded by -,b.r of practicing
physicians qoolifi.d fran a medical school at -anivrity level.



Page 3 of 4 pages
IOOWIaC  IDCATO!5
OROSS NATIONL PRODUCT IN 1976 1Y                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWH (%M  constant prices)
US9 mIn.                                1960 -65          1965 -70           1971-76
GNP at Market Prices          36,294       100.0                         1.4.9                                7.8
Gross Domeatic Inveat_nt       7,723        21.3                         3.3             11.5                16.2
Gross National Saving          6,908        19.0                         5.8              5.1                22.2
Current Account Balnce       -   815      -  2.2
lizports of Good., NIPS        6,183        17.0                         1.5              7.89.
Imports of Goods, NIS          6,352        17.5                         0.2             10.9                 .6
OUTPUT, UiOR FORCE AND
P1DDUCTrVT! IN 1976
Value Added                       r For.,-/                 V. A. Per Worker
us; mi.       A                 llw       -1                    US 
Agriculture                   11,624        31.1              35.3      62.6                   329        49.7
Tndustry                      12,672        33.9               4.7       8.3                2,696        407.3
Services                      13,043        35.0              13.4      23.8                   973       147.0
Unal1ocated                      -             -               3.0       5.3
Total/Average
37,339       10 100.0                    10.                    662        100.0
OOVEEWUT FINANCE
CDRINAL GOVERNME
(RD. Bil)                                          % of GDP
1976177       1977178                             1975             1976
Current Receipts                   8 S77  -     3,535                               18.1             18.6
Current Expenditure               1 610         t14                                 10.2             10.4
Current Surplus               t.,7  -           1,387                -7                               8.Z  - -
Capital EXpenditures             2,044          2,157                               11.7             13.2
External Assistance (net)           784           773                                4.0              5.1
M,U, CRIDIT and PRICES                    1972         1973        1974         1975        1976         1977
rBIllion Rp outstanding end periodT          ProvMsonal
Money and Quasi Money                      695          987       1,452        1,978       2,631       3,218
Bank credit to Public Sector               129          198         246        1,430       1,553       1,388
Bank Credit to Private Sector              524          889       1,158        1,367       1,727       2,052
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Mkoney and Quaai MDney as % of OG           15.2         14.6         14.8        16.3        17.0
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           807        1,028       1,370        1,640       1,873       2,094
Annual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                         25.7         27.4        33.3         19.7        14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector              -14.0          53.5        24.2        481.3         8.6       -10.6
Bank credit to Private Sector               65.3         69.7        30.3         18.0        26.3         18.8
NOlTt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an eschange rate of Rp 415 - US$1.
/ Total labor forces unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated0l consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
May 31, 1978



Page   of 4 pages
RhIX PA!DHKTS AND CAPITAL FWTB
BALANCE OF PAnMINS                                                     NERCFAMJDISE EXPORTS (AVUAGZ 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977                                                  US $ Hin    %
(Millions US$) Provisional
Exports:                       4 738    6.183    7.592               oil                                 2,906      57.1
Oil (not)                             3,567    4,243               Timber                                605      11.9
Non oil                      1,81q    2,216    3,349               Rubber                                461       9.1
Imports      ---             -5 533   -6,352   -_7,489               Palm Oil                              117       2.3
Resoutce Gap                         -  169       103              Tin                                   107       2.1
Factor service:              -  462   -  646   -  828                Coffee                                104       2.0
Interest                   -  178   -  362   -  473
Investment Income          -  284   -  284   -  355                  All other co  ,dities              7n1       15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1=7       - -5 -  =                             Total                       5,091    100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       497       329       286              EXTERN&L DEBT. DECEMB8R 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              2,395    2,327    1,988                                                            US $ Nln
Amortization              -  322   -  625   -  826
Subtotal                   2,073    1,702    1,162                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             11,391
Capital Grants                  ..        ..        ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          -2,250   -  205    )  74                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i            -   4     - -       L...L    )I/
Increase in Reserves (t)   -  983         736    1,197               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
Gross Reserves (end year)       590    1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)       490    1,226    2,423                  Public Debt, inc, guaranteed               17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        93       119        28
of which:  Petroleum         89       114       26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum      2,921    3,567    4,243          %R]n/IDA LENDING    (April 30, 1978) millioniUs
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed               462.4       466.1
Through  - Au . 1971            Since  -  1971                   Undisbursed                          1,063.6       134.7
uS $ 1.00   Rp 375              US $ 1.00 - Rp 415               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        1,526.0      600.8
Rp   1.00   US $2.67                 1.00 = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
May 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1978)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                       Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                         Bank        IDA     Bank/IDA
Thirteen Credits fully disbursed                                                  155.9       0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                        18.5       0.1
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                         14.5      0.2
246          1971          Seeds                                                    7.5      0.7
259          1971          Tea                                                     15.0      1.8
260          1971          Second Highway                                         34.0       0.6
288          1972          Second Education                                        6.3       0.1
289          1972          Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                        12.5      0.6
300          1972          Population                                             13.2       5.0
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                       8.5       2.0
319          1972          Fourth Agricultural Estates                            11.0       3.0
334          1973          Second Electricity Distribution                        40.0       0.5
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                 3.6       0.8
358          1973          North Sumatra Smallholder Development                   5.0       0.7
387          1973          Third Education                                        13.5       4.9
388          1973          Third Highway                                          14.0       1.0
399          1973          West Java Thermal Power                                46.0       5.9
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                      7.8       6.7
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                          50.0       4.2
428          1974          Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                          16.5      10.6
436          1974          Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                   10.0       2.8
451          1974          Fourth Technical Assistance                             5.0       2.8
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                           16.0      12.0
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                        6.5       2.3
514          1975          Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                         30.0      25.3
1005         1974          Railway                                     48.0                  6.8
1040         1975          Jakarta Urban Development                   25.0                  4.8
1049         1975          Five Cities Water Supply                    14.5                 11.8
1054         1975          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                             50.0                  4.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
US$ million
Loan!                                                                 Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                       Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                         Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
1089         1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0                  3.0
1100         1975          Sixth Irrigation                            65.0                 54.7
1127         1975          Fourth Power                                41.0                 13.5
1139         1976          Fertilizer Distribution                     68.0                  2.7
1179         1976          Agricultural Research & Extension           21.5                 20.6
1197         1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0                 11.6
1236         1976          Fourth Highway                             130.0                115.9
1237         1976          Fourth Education                            37.0                 35.2
1250         1976          Second Shipping                             54.0                 52.7
1254         1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0                 21.0
1259         1976          Fifth Power                                 90.0                 82.1
1267         1976          National Food Crops Extension               22.0                 19.1
1268         1976          Seventh Irrigation                          33.0                 26.6
1318         1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                               30.0                 27.1
1336         1977          Second Urban Development                    52.5                 32.6
1337         1977          Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0                 27.0
1363         1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0                 13.9
1365         1977          Sixth Power                                116.0                 97.6
1373         1977          Nutrition Development                       13.0                 13.0
1433         1977          Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0                 18.3
1434         1977          Eighth Irrigation                           63.0                 62.5
1435         1977          Ninth Irrigation                            35.0                 33.5
1437         1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0                 38.1
1472         1977          Second Population                           24.5                 24.5
1486         1978          Non-Formal Education                        15.0                 15.0
1499         1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders            65.0                 65.0
1513         1978          Seventh Power /b                           109.0                109.0
785         1978          Small Enterprise Development /b                       40.0       40.0
Total                                                  1,526.0    600.8   1,198.3
of which has been repaid                                 2.3       0.0
Total now outstanding                                  1,523.7    600.8
Amount sold                                    26.9
of which has been repaid                      0.0       26.9       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                       1,496.8    600.8
Total undisbursed                                      1,063.6    134.7   1,198.3
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                         Loan      Equity      Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                 10.6       2.5         13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                    Textiles                2.5       0.8          3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.5          2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia           Cable                   2.8       0.4          3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles                4.5       1.5          6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel        Tourism                11.0        -          11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                  5.4       0.7          6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles                2.0       0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan              Electronics             0.9        -           0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                     Devel. Fin. Co.          -        0.5          0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles                2.4       0.6          3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                  5.0       1.5          6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                   -        1.1          1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles                0.3        -           0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles                1.4       0.1          1.5
Total                                           50.8      10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             25.9       1.7         27.6
Total held by IFC                               24.9       8.8         33.7
Undisbursed (including participants' portion) 0.8           -           0.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                     Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434                   5-7
and 1435)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                  7-9
405, 480, Ln. 1318, and 1499)
Agriculture Support Services (Cr. 246, Ln. 1179, and 1267)                  9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785)                                              10
Education (Cr. 288, 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                               10-11
Energy (Cr. 334, 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   13
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                               14
Development Finance Companies  (Ln. 1054, 1437,                             14-15
Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          15
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                       15
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                     15-16
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         16
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                       16-17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                    17
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                           18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                        18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                               18
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)                                           19
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                         19
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is about 98%
disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and
hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Overall project completion is expected by about September 1978,
about 3 years years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay -
difficulties in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations,
heavy rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation
rates and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The project is now essentially completed with
97% of the Credit disbursed. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about twice
the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19 pages
Credit No. 289  Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. About 70% of the works are finished
and completion of the project is expected by March 1979. The Credit is
about 92% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project have been
concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of' about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved.   Based on bid priices for the first
contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the
total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the past
year. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject systems is
beyond the capability of PROSII)A to execute, and assistance has been provided
under Loan 1434-IND to expedite this work through the use of local consultants.
Critical review of the program for benefit monitoring is under way.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Project:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultarL:s. The project is slightly behind schedule in the North Sadang and
tertiary development areas. The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are well ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977: Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily and is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6.
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is on schedule and progressing satisfactorily.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has, to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 5,000 tons or 25%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date:  January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
participating in both the NES I project and the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date:  May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak.  Major changes in project scope and
objectives (approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977) reflected a
change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for
export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and
breeding animals. The project was reviewed in November 1977 and the mission
found the state of ranch development and management satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 19 pages
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on replanting
and less on rehabilitation; thus, the mix has to be changed reducing the
overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Production, however, will
not be affected since yields from replanted tea are higher than from rehabil-
itated tea. Costs will, however, exceed appraisal estimates by about 77%
since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and cost generally
increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in implementing the
institutional framework for long term lending, a new venture for BRI.
Because of this and difficulties in involving the private estates in the
project, disbursements are behind appraisal estimates. The problems are
being solved and the rate of disbursements is expected to accelerate. While
the project has experienced difficulties, it is estimated that, because of
the project-induced spin-off effects, an area at least equal in size to the
project is being improved. Over 500 farmers' groups have been formed to
improve tea production supported by a project training program involving up
to now nearly 4,000 farmers. These developments have been helped by a surge
in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal estimates). Considerable investment in
factory and field development outside the project is taking place, largely
financed by short- and medium-term loans of BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs which are involved in the rehabilitation process are
both in a weak financial position and this problem requires attention. The
Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the industry
but progress of this study is slow.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project has generally been progres-
sing satisfactorily. ConstructiQn of shore facilities at Ambon is virtually
completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is on
site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving.-the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind appraisal
estimates partly because of the initial delay in project effectiveness, and
because of weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 650 migrant
families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing food
crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate ferti4iser
supplies and poor seed supply, although half originates from construction and
rubber planting. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there has been
little.improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available on site
and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experience to
date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring that
agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as settle-
ment proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12. 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Initial progress under this project shows that it is off to an
excellent start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting
material is being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced
project staff is being assembled at the project sites.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 246  Seeds:   US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971; Effective
Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
At Sukamandi 1,600 ha have been developed and it is planned to
develop an additional area of 400 ha in 1978. Significant results as of
1976/77 season, expressed as percentages of appraisal estimates are:
(a) area under production - 2,020 ha (54%), (b) yields of rice seed -
2.9 tons/ha (72%), and (c) production of certified seed - 4,900 tons (42%).
Due to cost escalations and implementation difficulties, only one seed
multiplication district, Klaten, out of the three planned at appraisal, has
been developed. Total area developed so far is 250 ha of a total estimate of



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19 pages
500 ha. National Seeds Corporation's cost of production continues to be high
and it is not commercially viable even with increases in production. The
Corporation will need continued financial support from the Government.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975: Effective Date:  February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project having suffered initial delays is about one year behind,
the appraisal report schedule, but is now progressing satisfactorily.
Architects for civil works construction have now completed schematic drawings,
a contract for provision of technical assistance for research is under active
implementation and an agreement with FAO for technical assistance in extension
of agricultural information was signed in October 1977.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
'iThe construction and procurement programs, after a somewhat slow
start, are now on schedule. Staff appointments are on schedule with the
exception of some supervisory staff and subject matter specialists outside
Java. 7he new extension methodology has been adopted in all project provinces
and is being gradually applied. A second-phase project, covering the remainirg
provinces in Indonesia, is being prepared.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785  Small Enterprise Development Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This credit is expected to become effective in July 1978.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers.  Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule'. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 31 million books for 1977/78, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 370,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 19 pages
of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO. The
Government is presently seeking additional technical assistance in publishing
and paper procurement. Disbursement has improved and is now 91% of the
appraisal estimate as against 69% a year ago. The Government is planning a
major review of the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Govern-
ment textbook projects and to overall future needs for production of instruc-
tional materials.
Loan No. 1237  Fourth Education ProJect:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project suffered initially a ten-month delay due to late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust agreements with the UN agenrcies providing
technical assistance and slow site selection. However, no further delays
have occurred and good progress is now being made in implementation. Cumber-
some implementation procedures in the Department of Manpower are still a
potential source of delay for that Department's subproject and should be kept
under rev.iew. Architectural designs for all three subprojects have been
prepared by consultants and approved by the Bank. Most sites have been
acquired and surveyed. Construction firms have been prequalified. Tenders
for con,struction of 14 to 24 project institutioths will be called in the next
six months. Equipment lists are in advanced stages of preparation. Eleven
additional technical assistance specialists assumed their posts over the last
six months and the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is satisfactory. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve teacher
training has started. The technical assistance contract has been signed. The
design of physical facilities has fallen behind schedule because of delays in
appointing consultant architects. First phase civil works was, however,
tendered in March, permitting commencement of construction by July 1978.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implementation progress is satisfactory.   All positions
in the project unit are filled and appointment of key staff at provincial
centers has been completed. A technical assistance firm has been selected by'
the project unit and contract negotiations began in late March 1978. Rehabili-
tation of one of two existing provincial centers is underway. Three of four
sites for new provincial centers have been acquired. Construction of four new
provincial centers is expected to begin in July 1978. Initial staff training,
learning materials development and evaluation activities are being carried
out.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 334   Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date:  March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered setbacks in implementation
due to delays in the preparation"of designs for-the system expansion because
of constantly changing city development plans during the early period of
implementation, procurement problems and cumbersome management procedures.
As a result the project is two years behind the original schedule. These
difficulties have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to, June 30, 1978
to allow additional time for the delivery of some recently ordered goods.
Completion of voltage changeover and connection of consumers will require
another 12 months after Closing Date.
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of June- 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
-,     June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang (Part
A of the Project) were about 65% higher than estimated at the time of
appraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in
an increase in the total project cost of more than 100%. Government will
provide the additional funds required. The additional financing requirements
led to a delay in the award of the general construction contract and, as a
result, the project is about two years behind schedule. PLN has satisfactorily
met the targets in its financial recovery plan (Part B) provided for
under the terms of the Credit Agreement. The Java System Study (Part C) has
been completed. The Citarum Hydroelectric Feasibility Study (Part D) had to
be extended by another working season to complete additional field work. It
is likely that the Closing Date of the Credit will need to be postponed by
about 12 months.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: 'October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Part A of the project provides for the expansion of the Muara
Karang thermal power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW
generating unit. The general construction contracts covering this unit as
well as the first two financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded although
after some delay because of the problems of cost-overruns for the first two
units. The Financial Recovery Plan (Part B) and feasibility study for a new
thermal plant in West Java (Part C 1) have been completed. The Training
Program (Part D) is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the project
is now satisfactory but final completion will be about 18 months behind the
original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is under way but disbursement is
substantially behind schedule. Orders have been placed for the first of
three lots of equipment for about $11.0 million; these are now being
received enabling field work to be commenced. Bids are being issued for the
second lot worth about $40.0 million and arrangements for construction
altered to speed up implementation. Nevertheless a delay of about a year is
expected in completion of the Project, due to the slow start. Part B of the
Project (the financial recovery plan) has been completed.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Project: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Orders have been placed for main generating plant and equipment.
Loan No, 1513 Seventh Power Project: US$109.0. Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan is expected to become effective in July 1978.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089  Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The gas system has been completed and total project cost
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date:  August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977,
about three months ahead of schedule. Total project cost is expected to
be below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 290 ha has been acquired and acquisition of another
31 ha is under negotiation. 104 ha of the 129 ha of developed land have been
sold to 83 firms. Factory employment at full capacity will be around 17,000
and an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average in both factory construction
and land development. Overall, operations are profitable. The return on
capital investment, which is now projected to be 20.6%, is significantly
higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to the fact that
developed land values are rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed among the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank. The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next
few months.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorly.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed.satisfactorily.  The Credit is
fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date:  April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The National Family Planning Program, of which the project is
an integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors
recruited annually and now covers about 18% of all married women in the
reproductive age group. Implementation of the civil works component is
on schedule.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Although the NFPCB, the agency responsible for project implemen-
tation, had done considerable preparatory work, the promise of rapid progress"
shown prior to loan effectiveness has not yet materialized. Tendering for
civil works and the procurement of vehicles and equipment are about five
months behind schedule, due in part to the preoccupation of the NFPCB with a
proposed internal reorganization, and the recent promotion of the Chairman of
the NFPCB to the post of Minister of Health in the new Cabinet.
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is essentially on schedule. Construction of
BAKOSURTANAL headquarters and facilities, including cartographic, printing,
photographic interpretation, and,data processing wings, is about 50% com-
plete.  Contracts covering about 40% of the equipment to be procured under
the project have been awarded. The first new topographic map sheets of
Sumatra have been completed, and an orderly schedule for several hundred
additional sheets are in various ,.stages of compilation and production.
Training programs and the work of expert advisors engaged under the project
are progressing well. Final loan documents for a parallel CIDA-financed
project are awaiting Government's signature.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$12.5 million from the loan were realized in the original project. Procurement
of an additional ship and bulk reception facilities to serve expansion of
fertilizer output beyond that anticipated at appraisal were approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977.  The expanded project is under way, the'
fourth ship has been delivered, and other components are likely to be com-
pleted successfully.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been rela-
tively small (despite sharp price increases) due to efforts to reduce
construction quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services.
Construction work is completed; but work is still proceeding on detailed
engineering of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to
reconsider road design standards in relation to those recently developed for
the highway betterment program and to take into account the Bank's recommen-
dations regarding standards for urban portions of the road.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections in the
project was started early in 1974 under two contracts. Contractors have been
delayed mainly because of long mobilization periods and unusually adverse



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19 pages
climatic conditions. Construction costs will likely exceed original estimates
by more than 100%, m ainly caused by in creased quantities combined with
sharply escalated prices. The project also included feasibility and detailed
design studies of highway betterment works. Most of the studies are now
completed and formed the basis of the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND).
However, work on a few studies will continue for another 3-4 months and will
then form the basis for lending by ADB or bilateral agencies. The training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and is being implemented by the
Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Nearly all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays ranging
from nine months to about one year. Construction contracts for almost 900 km
of roads have been awarded, and tender evaluation has been completed for the
remaining about 380 km. Some problems in the execution of the road works
have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 but it is still too early to
assess the future impact of these difficulties oni the overall construction
progress and project completion.
Credit No. 318  Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:  US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and the technical assistance to be
developed. Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy appli-
cants,just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will
have been rehabilitated.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8;. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants, most of
which have now been made, has caused a slow start to the project and has
slowed project implementation and disbursements. The financial position of
the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, and further deterioratiQn
could cause financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is considering steps to deal with this problem and with the acquisition of
high-cost new ships. Solutions likely to be proposed may require amendment
to the project description. It is expected that such a proposal will be
discussed with the Bank in June 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo, about 2.8 million tons were handled in the
first half of 1977. The first construction contract for Basin III civil works
and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let; container
handling and other equipment is being procured.  There continue to be problems
in completing government financed works in Basin III but these works are
expected to be completed by December 1978. Good progress is being made in
revising accounting procedures and in related staff training.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and almost all contracts have
been signed or are about to be signed. Project execution is behind schedule
due to initial slow procurement and execution of works. Freight and passenger
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However slight
improvements were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new
locomotlves and rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of
consultants. The financial performance of the railway deteriorated in 1976
and 1977 due mainly to the declining traffic and to an increase in cost
including a large wage raise in early 1977.  The overall situation is being
reviewed with the railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979. The construction of the hotel training school has been completed.
The compleLion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is
scheduled for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project
appraisal. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 31% in 1976
and by a further 8% in 1977 to 286,000 visitors. Despite considerable efforts-
made by BTDC and the Bank Group in promoting hotel investment at Nusa Dua, no
hotel investors have yet come forward. It is therefore highly unlikely that a'
first hotel at Nusa Dua could be completed by the end of 1979 to coincide with
completion of the infrastructure.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: 'June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the proje't is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha--have beeg upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 60% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved. About
2,900 core housing units are'presently being allocated, and the remaining
4,300 are expected to be available by Septenrber 1978.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Proiect:. US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up pxocedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities ip undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPIY.
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date:  May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected tQ increase project costs about
15% above the appraisal estimate.  Detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for
major civil works have been signed. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering has been completed and the establishment and development
of local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. We are waiting for
the Government to issue an interministerial decree defining relationships
between the various Ministries and the water enterprises.



ANNEX III
INDONESIA: RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: three years;
(b) Project preparation coordinated by BRI;
(c) First presented to the Association (following FAO study):
September 1974;
(d)  First mission to consider project:  December 1974;
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1976;
(f) Follow-up missions to further discuss the project: March 1977,
and November 1977;
(g) Completion of negotiations: May 8, 1978;
(h) Planned credit effectiveness: late September 1978.
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
The Association intends to mount a supervisory mission late
June 1978 to assist in project initiation.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) BRI would by February 1, 1979 submit to the Association its
first annual program for lending under the project and there-
after annually (para. 46);
(b) BRI would by February 1 in each year, starting February 1, 1980,
review with the Association the measures taken and the results
achieved by BRI on subloan collection performance in the previous
calendar year (para. 51);                                                         *
(c) BRI would carry out a monitoring and evaluation study (para. 53); and
(d) consultants would be retained as follows: for term-lending assis-
tance by January 1, 1979, except for one banking specialist and one
agriculturalist, to be retained by April 1, 1979; for the evaluation
study by April 1, 1979 (para. 59).



'O4~  1O6~                                                   APRIL 1978
BI                                                                                           1y104'  106
\      J A  ,QA B  I__J                                                                             -  
<~~~~~~~~~
20                                   >                           '-' '              a-      BANGKA                                                                                 2
-2                                                       L_  S X t x -x Wangkolpinang
j                           )                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
A                  9                               /              tv             tj                    X     (i>,                    4            tonijungpondart
-,   (   J    /                     --~~~~~ -AL~EMBANG                                                   J                                             ,
i  a    /  S 9  U ~~~~T H    s U  M A T R A  $
\.      Lubuklinggau                 PeraJum\ ih               AKayuagung                                                       INDONESIA
a) XLubuklinggau   S                               5                f,)                                 tRURAL CREDIT PROJECT
\<     4uaraenim   / {<   ~   \                         S                  South Sumatra & Lampung
N                                        A  /> ~<_ / Lah3J X /jf \\)A8BRI regional office
Pagatalam                                                                                                          A  BRI branches                             4.
4-   X   vt    Pagurolum$?& ~gturaturai                    v                 (t             J A  VA                *Cattle
C Coffee
S E A                  P  Pepper
X    \   /    LX ~~~~~~~A M  P U N G- 
A l    I                                  /  Kotabumi                                                                                      Roads
. / 1 )                       --Provincial boundaries
AMetro            106                                                        108
~~,.. THAILAND               2~~~~~~.PHILIPPINES
c C      kTanjungkarang                             A Y *   -RUNEIG .
T.SINGAPORE,-...`                                    PAPUA
SUMATRA                                                      NEW
0           50           100          150                                                                                           10UINEAERA
.~jPsegkoptnong  SUAWESI   CERAAMA
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                        Ambono      0  N  E  Y.-  A/R/AN   -
0                   50                   100                               i-|rt 
>    I  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.Purwkrta JA4iA --
T-his -ep has bees prepare d by the Wordg-as's staff elu i.,l fotho  - -cOOOti.  6itn  .
>I 6- IES                              of thereders of th rpt to which,t s attahed. The de-iin   sd red thK               Jehber            ATMR                        C  _
boudaris-has on thi map donot i.ply, so he.part.f te.WorldOa.k-ad its                               rslrMORoo
r _ _ 104-  a aepts 1iadntent en t9helgadal eetetus of any territo4t-or anyendorseltt or                                O.. -h - -boundories  0'
co 






SF~~~~~~~QAL CAMTAL                                                                                                               Jo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUIA    VROI: ROEC
 VC
08P#"AN  A                                                                                        E    :
-  w~~~~~~~   ~~~   ~~~~  I                          IN D          /   RN                  O CE A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
~~~  ~~~~    ~~~CI~~~~~~ ~~~'-~~~~~~  -~~~~~____________________________ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Fsh~gbqt 60,. W
*,  &*~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lpo
Sr                                   5,4~~~~~~~~~~d
E~~~~~~~~~O                                                               1






,o 122'                                            12C                                      APRIL 1978
\  1200                                            122-                ~           >                    124    INDONESIA
MA KA SSA R                                               Tot in,                                                                     RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ST7RA If   /                    lu                                                                                                  South Sulawesi
, 1 /    \\               (               /                                  p     /         )                           ^A  BRI regionol office
so'                                                                                    C E N T RA+L AW E S I < (' .. 9 S v BRI branches
C   E NTRA~~~~~ Y  S U  LAW ES  I                                                N   Fishing ~~~~~~~~~boats and Ice plants
I  Brackish fishponds
a.                                                                                                                                                 CaittleO.
Roods
/   S O U T H                                                      T. <lue/k  ro-o -Provincial boundaries
S U L A W E SI
t/omuju                           X         a            
f           ~~~~~Mokal    ,aopo                    ,                    r 
./ewali/    5t   0-vSOUTH EAST/
Pin nr nRnkang                                   SULAWES
-2-               Parepa                                                  -        )     ~            n      n   f                                                                           2
T6      an Ip \i k) in                                              kaJ
W> Z{   atr )                  )=aapnsf1-                                            ~         f      \R
/rz 6, 1, ':,                                            1, t                         Empo--'e
PangkajenjiAbl La             /'                              ;             >      t~        l )          U          ,0        50          100        150         200
UJUNG PANDANG          Mr                           ,.k                                               91    9                                  KILOMETERS
7Y^ 1S(injai  ''   2 l j      :  >e            0        25        50       75        100       125
|Sunj;jgoumninasa   (7' '                                 '>    V     (_ It,>S_,>Bauba                             124-         UtMILES
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,    Jl u124'
Takolar           ;            ;b                                                       &y                
'~~  '~BuIu'1~~j~mba                                                                               THILAND                               I~PIE
>eponto                                                                                              L AT                                    PA7~4
This map has been prepared by the                                                                     P PAiNGAP0REyo_i ,PUA
-4-                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank's staff exclusively fox 40     KIIMANrAN                                NEW
Benteng                                      the convenience of the readers of                                                                      GUIENEA
The denominations used and the                 I    N                   LAW,-DES    ACEA'AA
boundaries shown on this maP            .bn '                                                        JA YA i W
dx net imply, on the part of the
ES                      I / D A' R . S                                                 World Bank and its affiliates, any       Tsonerroe   AVA--_ .I.
judgment on the legal statu-s of           Pu5w,0,g)  a                                                     1
any territory or any endorsementi                   Kafet----  -''
or acceptance of such boundOties.  i, 
120                                                 122-                             o _ ._'_'



