CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 484 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Talkha II Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 484 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Talkha II Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1974, between the ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement (S-15-UAR) dated
November 20, 1973 (hereinafter called the First Development Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower
a development credit in various currencies equivalent to four hundred thousand
dollars ($400,000) (hereinafter called the First Development Credit) to assist in
the financing of the technical advisory and consulting services referred to in Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Borrower has also requested the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Abu
Dhabi Fund for Economic Development, the Government of Qatar and the Libyan
Arab Foreign Bank to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project;
(D)   The Project will be carried out by Societd El Nasr d'Engrais et
d'Industries Chimiques (hereinafter called SEMADCO) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
SEMADCO the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(E)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SEMADCO; and
(F)   The Association is prepared to refund the First Development Credit
out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SEMADCO" means Socie tW      El Nasr d'Engrais et d'Industries
Clhimiques, a public sector company established by the Decree dated August 14,
1946 and published on September 5, 1946 in the Egyptian Official Gazette No. 88.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and SEMADCO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SEMADCO pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreernent, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Talkha 1 Project" means the calcium amonium nitrate plant of
SEMADCO;
(e)   "Egyptian Pounds" and the sign "CE" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
(f)   "Completion Date" means the date on which the manufacturing
facilities included in the Project have been tested in accordance with sound
engineering practices and have proven to be acceptable and have, during a period
of 90 consecutive clays, achieved a total production equivalent to eighty per cent
of the productive capacity of such facilities, namely 86,400 metric tons of ammonia
and 124,200 metric tons of urea.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Association, on the Effective Date, shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the First Developni-t Credit withdrawn
and outstanding and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be April 1, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1984 and ending January 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Chairman of the Board of SEMADCO, or any person
authorized in writing by him, is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
SEMADCO to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth and shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SEMADCO to perform such
obligations.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to SEMADCO
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
SEMADCO under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and
conditions shall include the following:
(i)        the principal amount of the loan repayable by SEMADCO shall
be the equivalent (determined as of the date or the respective
dates, of repayment) of the value of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Credit Account expressed in terms of United
States dollars at the time of withdrawal;
(ii)       the loan will be repaid by SEMADCO to the Borrower in twenty
equal semi-annual installments over fifteen years (including five
years of grace); and
(iii)      interest shall be charged at the rate of six per cent (6%) per
annum plus a Ministry of Finance charge of two and one-half
per cent (2-1/2%) per annum on the outstanding balance of the
loan.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall provide SEMADCO, not later than December 3 1,
1977, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, with an initial working capital of not less than one million Egyptian
Pounds (fE1,000,000) upon terms and conditions consistent with the provisions
of this Agreement and of the Project Agreement.
(d)   Without limiting the generality of Sub-section (a) above, the Borrower
shall make available to SEMADCO, promptly as shall be required for the carrying
out of the Project, as a contribution to its equity, an amount of fifteen million
nine hundred thousand Egyptian Pounds (fE15,900,000).
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend,
abrograte or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In addition to the funds required to be provided by the
Borrower under Section 3.01 and those referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall provide SEMADCO with sufficient funds on terms and conditions
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Project Agreement
as shall be necessary to: (i) complete the Talkha I Project not later than March 31,
1975, and to ensure the maximum production of fertilizers thereunder; and (ii)
enable SEMADCO to maintain, until the Completion Date, an adequate liquidity
position.
(b)   The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken (i) all measures, including
but not limited to the provision of funds, to ensure an adequate supply of gas
as shall be required for the execution and operation of the Project and for the
Talkha I Project; and (ii) all measures necessary to ensure an adequate supply of
power as shall be required for the execution and operation of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that it will not make any
withdrawals of funds from SEMADCO if such withdrawals will prevent SEMADCO
from maintaining, at the Completion Date and thereafter, a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of at least 1.5:1.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable due within
twelve months less the reserve for bad debts, inventories
convertible to saleable goods within twelve months, and all other


﻿8
assets which could, in the ordinary course of business, be
converted within twelve months into cash.
(ii)        "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable within twelve
months, customer advances, income taxes, dividends, bonuses,
interest and all other liabilities which would be due and payable
or could be called for payment, within twelve months.
(iii)      Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing rate of exchange as published by the Central Bank
of Egypt.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that it will promptly provide
SEMADCO with any funds in addition to those referred to in Recital (C), Section
3.01 and Section 3.02 of this Agreement, which are needed to enable SEMADCO
at the end of the financial quarter following the Completion Date and thereafter
to maintain at all times current assets at least equal to one and five-tenths times
its current liabilities, both as calculated in accordance with the definitions set forth
in Section 3.03(b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. In order to ensure the timely procurement of the goods required
for the Project in accordance with the critical path schedule referred to in Section
2.06 of the Project Agreement and the timely procurement of the goods and services
required for the Talkha I Project, the Borrower undertakes to take, promptly as
needed, all action necessary therefor, including the issuance of the licenses required,
if any, for the importation of such goods.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1975, commence
a comprehensive study, under terms of reference which shall have been prepared
in consultation with the Association, of the fertilizer sector and shall prepare, on
the basis of said study and in consultation with the Association, and thereafter
implement, a program for future production, use and distribution of fertilizers.
Section 4.02. Without limitation on the provisions of Sections 3.01(a) and
3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide SEMADCO, not later than
December 31, 1977, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower


﻿9
and the Association, with the funds necessary to enable SEMADCO to repay all
of its existing debt (as dcfined in Section 4.03(c) of the Project Agreement)
maturing on or prior to that date.
Section 4.03. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise, or cause to be exercised, any power to
establish or control the ex-factory prices at which SEMADCO's production may
be sold in such manner as not to prevent SEMADCO, on the assumption of
production at a rate of not less than 90% of capacity under conditions of efficient
operation, from earning in each fiscal year a reasonable return on its investment
in addition to meeting its debt service coverage specified in Section 4.04 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 4.03 hereof,
the Borrower shall establish, or cause to be established, a retail price of urea which,
on a nutrient basis, shall be comparable to the retail price of other nitrogen
fertilizers in Egypt.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Sections 5.02
or 5.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
interest and other charges thereon.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Decree establishing SEMADCO, referred to in Section 1.02(a) of
this Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of SEMADCO to
carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(b)   a default shall occur in performance of any obligation on the part
of SEMADCO under the Project Agreement;


﻿10
(c)   the Borrower, or any other Authority having jurisdiction, shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SEMADCO or for the
suspension of its operation;
(d)   an excraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SEMADCO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement; and
(e)   the right of the Borrower or SEMADCO to withdraw the proceeds
of any financing made available to them for the carrying out of the Project shall
have been suspended or terminated in whole or in part and the Borrower shall
have failed to make available to SEMADCO alternative arrangement for financing
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and SEMADCO; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SEMADCO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and SEMADCO, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   The Borrower or SEMADCO shall have obtained financing in an
amount equivalent to sixty nine million dollars ($69,000,000) to meet the foreign
exchange cost of the Project, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.


﻿11
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, SEMADCO, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of SEMADCO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SEMADCO,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
SEMADCO in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 23, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02(b), 3.03,
3.04 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c)
of Section 5.02 of this Agreement and those of Section 5.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date sixteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Government Agency for Arab and
International and Economic Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specifieC for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Government Agency for Arab and
International and Economic
Cooperation
Abbasiah
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt


﻿12
Cable address:
ECOTRADE
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ahmed Tawfic Khalil
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gregory B. Votaw
Director, Country Programs Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
AMOunt of the
Credit Allocated             %Of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.    General Contrac-               105800,000          100% of foreign
tor' s services                                    expenditures
and fees
II.   Special equipment,              3,000,000          100% of foreign
including com-                                     expenditures
pressors, high
pressure reactors
and boilers
III.  Construction mate-              3,000,000          100% of foreign
rials, including                                   expenditures if
instrumentation,                                   imported or the
and steel                                          ex-factory cost
if locally manu-
factured
IV.   (a)  Technical                   800,000           100% of foreign
Advisor's                                    expenditures
services
(b)   Refunding of               400,000
First Develop-
ment Credit
V.    Unallocated                    2,000,000
TOTAL         20,00,000
. For the purposes of this Schedule the termn "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied fron, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿14
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the expansion of existing fertilizer production facilities
owned by SEMADCO at Talkha to increase capacity by 570,000 tons per year
(TPY) urea and includes the following Parts:
A.    Design, construction and commissioning of a fertilizer production plant with
a capacity of: (i) 396,000 TPY ammonia of which approximately
330,000 TPY to be converted to urea and about 66,000 TPY to be utilized
in the existing fertilizer facilities and in other industrial uses and (ii)
570,000 TPY urea including design, license fees, equipment and materials.
B.    Acquisition and installation of a polyethlene bag making unit with a capacity
of 4,000 bags per hour.
C.    Design, construction and commissioning of offsite facilities required to
support the urea plant provided herein including detailed design, storage,
bagging, shipping, auxiliary steam, water treatment, and other facilities.
D.    Training and pre-operating expenses required for SEMADCO to manage and
operate the facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 1, 1978.


