CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 484 UAR
Project Agreement
(Talkha II Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIFTE EL NASR D'ENGRAIS ET
D'INDUSTRIES CHIMIQUES
DATED JUNE 24, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 484 UAR
Project Agreement
(Talkha II Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE EL NASR D'ENGRAIS ET
D'INDUSTRIES CHIMIQUES
DATED JUNE 24, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
D'ENGRAIS ET D'INDUSTRIES CHIMIQUES (hereinafter called SEMADCO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that SEMADCO agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SEMADCO, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SEMADCO on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SEMADCO, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the terms "current assets" and "current liabilities" have the respective
meanings set forth in Section 3.03(b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SEMADCO shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿4
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SEMADCO in the preparation of a detailed
plan for the execution of the Project, SEMADCO shall employ technical advisory
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist SEMADCO in the procurement of the
equipment and materials required for the Project, in the erection of the facilities
to be constructed under the Project, and in obtaining the necessary processing
licensing, SEMADCO shall employ a general contractor acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. In carrying out the Project, SEMADCO shall employ civil works
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to SEMADCO and the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. SEMADCO shall furnish to the Association for its approval,
not later than three months after the employment of the general contractor referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, a critical path schedule setting out the detailed
time schedule for the carrying out of the Project and, upon approval thereof by
the Association, shall carry out the Project on the basis of such schedule.
Section 2.07. (a) SEMADCO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by SEMADCO to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SEMADCO shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) SEMADCO shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction


﻿5
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   SEMADCO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   SEMADCO shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, and equipment of
SEMADCO and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.09. SEMADCO shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
SEMADCO shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEMADCO
Section 3.01. SEMADCO shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on the operation of the
plants provided under the Project and its other operations in accordance with
appropriate financial, engineering and industrial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and competent
staff.
Section 3.02. SEMADCO shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps which are necessary to maintain its existence
and its right to carry on operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land and other properties and
all rights, powers, and privileges which are necessary or useful in the carrying out
of the Project or in the conduct of its business;


﻿6
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices; and
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking.
Section 3.03. SEMADCO shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SEMADCO shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SEMADCO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of SEMADCO and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) SEMADCO shall not, prior to the Completion Date,
undertake any capital investment (other than the Project, the Talkha I Project
and  rehabilitation or modcrnization of SEMADCO's existing manufacturing
facilities), in any one fiscal year, exceeding two million Egyptian Pounds
(fE2,000,000) without prior consultation with the Association.
(b)   SEMADCO shall not undertake, after the Completion Date, any capital
investment if, or if as a result of such investment, SEMADCO's debt/equity ratio
would exceed 50:50.


﻿7
(c)   For the purposes of Sub-section (b) above:
(i)         "Debt" means any debt incurred by SEMADCO maturing more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract
or agreement on the date and to the extent it is drawn down
pursuant to such loan or agreement; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii)       "Equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired capital, surplus,
and free reserves of SEMADCO not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.
Section 4.04. (a) SEMADCO shall take all such action within its powers
to ensure that, after the Completion Date, its net revenues in any one fiscal year
shall not be less than 1.5 times the debt service of all of its debt then outstanding.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The term   "Debt" means any debt incurred by SEMADCO
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan contract
or agreement on the date and to the extent that it is drawn
down pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee is entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii)       The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources
less operating and administrative expenses including taxes and
other levies, if any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)       The term    "debt service" means the aggregate amount of
amortization, interest and other charges on debt due in any one
fiscal year.


﻿8
(v)        Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing rate of exchange as published by the Central Bank
of Egypt.
Section 4.05. SEMADCO shall take all such action within its power as shall
be necessary to maintain at the end of the financial quarter following the
Completion Date and thereafter a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
at least 1.5:1.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of SEMADCO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date sixteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SEMADCO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agieement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted


﻿9
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For SEMADCO:
Soci6t6 El Nasr d'Engrai. et
d'Industries Chimiques
Immabila Building
P.O. Box 1179
Cairo
Cable address:
SEMADCO
Cairo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SEMADCO may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of
SEMADCO or such other persons or persons as the Chairman of the Board shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SEMADCO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of SEMADCO, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by SEMADCO pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gregory B. Votaw
Director, Country Programs Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
SOCIETE EL NASR D'ENGRAIS ET D'INDUSTRIES
CHIMIQUES
By /s/ Shoukry El Nahal
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding, except for (i)
items that are proprietary to the process design; (ii) items with limited availability
and whose timely supply is critical to efficient execution of the project; and (iii)
items costing less than the equivalent of $50,000.
2.    Bidders will be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to SEMADCO of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Arab Republic of Egypt may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Arab Republic
of Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Arab Republic of
Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.


﻿12
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the Arab
Republic of Egypt.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. SEMADCO shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall
be furnished by SEMADCO to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and SEMADCO shall make such additions to, deletions from,
or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a)   SEMADCO shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
comments (not being later than the date upon which invitations to bid are issued),


﻿13
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make, and issue to the prospective bidders, such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, SEMADCO shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the general contractor referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendation for award of the said general contractor and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform SEMADCO and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, SEMADCO shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together, in
the case of any such contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more,
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform SEMADCO and state the reasons for such determination.


