Report No. PID8415
Project Name                     Tunisia-Water Sector Investment Loan (+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage;
Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       TUPE35707
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
30, rue Alain Savary, 1002 Tunis
Contact Person: Abdallah Mallek,
Director General, DGFE
Tel: 216-1-842687
Fax: 216-1-784447
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 30, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 28 - March 11, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Background. The Water Sector has always been at the center of
Government's development agenda in Tunisia. Its strategic importance is
even more pronounced in the agriculture sector which consumes 85% of water
resources. As such, it has benefited from considerable public investment
since independence (over $2 billion or 37% of the public investment budget
for agriculture during the IXth plan alone-1997-2001) which have
translated into major water mobilization infrastructure (22 large dams,
100 hill dams, 500 hill lakes, 120,000 tubewells etc) thereby reducing the
country's vulnerability to irregular rainfall and recurrent drought,
bringing irrigated areas to about 350,000 ha (400,000 ha by the start of
the Tenth Plan-2002), and potable water to meet the demands of close to
80% of rural households, all urban areas, tourism and industry alike.
Irrigated agriculture covers only about 7 percent of agricultural land but
generates 459 of agricultural output.   There are about 125,000 farmers
that practice irrigation of some type, with half of those relying on
shallow dug wells, 30 percent on surface mobilization, and 20 percent on
tubewells. Thanks to important efforts to promote water users
associations (WUAs), there are now about 2450 WUAs in Tunisia (1500 for
Potable Water; 800 for Irrigation; and 150 for Potable Water and
Irrigation). Parallel efforts at commercialization/privatization of the
Water Supply and Sanitation sector are also ongoing.A strong institutional
setup and legislative framework, coupled with a solid sustainable
development policy, has also enabled Tunisia to stand at the forefront of
the Middle East and North Africa Region in the area of natural resource
management and environmental protection. While these efforts have allowed
the country to register these important gains, it has become apparent to
Government that if current trends persist, water shortages would be
inevitable by 2015 as Tunisia would have developed, by then, its full
water resource potential while demand for water would continue to



increase. In this context, and in recent years, the Government of Tunisia
with the support of major donors (IBRD, KfW, JBIC, AfDB, etc) has
conducted a number of key studies (Eau 2000, Eau 21, etc) which culminated
with a major comprehensive Water Sector Review (Etude sur le Secteur de
l'Eau) destined to provide a new strategy for integrated water resource
management in Tunisia. The Water Sector Review (WSR), which main thrust is
participatory demand management, was completed in April 1999, and soon
after presented at a Round Table in Tunis. It has been endorsed by the
Government as the basis for the proposed project and all future
investments in the water sector in accordance with the new strategy. Its
mains guidelines will be included in a Letter of Sector Development Policy
(LSDP). This long term strategy would specifically address the following
sector issues: (i) integrated management and conservation of water
resources; (ii) economic efficiency of irrigation water use; and (iii)
institutional restructuring and capacity building in the water sector.For
Integrated management and conservation of water resources, the Government
is working on two fronts. On the technical front, it intends to facilitate
(i) increased interconnectivity of mobilization and transfer
infrastructure; (ii) improved technical capacity for surface water
management based on real time data and management of groundwater
(including registration, qualitative and quantitative monitoring); (iii)
proper management of good rainfall years and reduction of physical losses;
and (iv) at a later stage, greater use of non-conventional water resources
(desalinization, reuse of treated wastewater, artificial recharge where
economically justified). On the legislative front, the Government will
monitor pilot activities on the ground and progress of participatory
management and supervisory approaches to be tested during the WSIL so as
to update the Water Code in the follow-up phase (WSIL2). For Economic
efficiency of irrigation water use, the Government wants to encourage (i)
the use of water as an economic input in competitive and profitable crop
production as a result of progressive tariff reforms; (ii) policies to
improve modernization and efficiency of irrigation activities; (iii)
legislative and institutional reforms to encourage water management by
users; (iv) agricultural intensification in existing irrigation areas, and
increased productivity of water used in irrigated perimeters through
improved farming practices and better cropping strategies.On Institutional
restructuring and capacity building in the water sector, the Government
wants to reduce excessive involvement of State agencies, improve
administrative and financial management, and accountability with a view to
progressively reduce subsidies. This is to be achieved through the
progressive retrenchment of the State from non-public functions in the
sector to the benefit of the private sector and WUAs. The latter would be
strengthened and therefore be expected to take on more responsibilities
(financial, technical and managerial). In parallel, the Government
intends to revisit the role of all major public entities (CRDAs,
SECADENORD, ONAS, SONEDE). New skills (water economics, statistics, MIS,
M&E, community organization and participation, etc.) needed to solidify a
demand management strategy would also be developed and the efficiency of
support services would be improved as a result of ongoing and expected
reforms in agriculture and research institutions (AVFA, IRESA in
particular).
2. Objectives
The project's main objectives are to (a) promote effective integrated
water resource management by: (i) establishing/implementing an sound
- 2 -



institutional framework and sector reform measures for demand management
(revised tariff policy, new institutional arrangements) as shifting
programs from supply to demand management is the main thrust of the
Government's strategy in the sector, (ii) improving the capacity of the
Government, Water Users Associations (WUAs) and private operators to
efficiently manage resources, and (iii) facilitating real-time management
of ground and surface water (from conventional and non-conventional
sources); and (b) promote conservation of water resources and protection
of the environment. These two objectives are expected to significantly
improve the productivity of agriculture and access to safe water in rural
areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Value-added (for the Borrower) of Bank support is two-fold:The Bank has
built good experience in the Middle-East and North Africa in particular on
policy dialogue, sector work, and operations dealing with the water
sector. The Bank can facilitate access to information, lessons learned,
best practices on areas where the Government needs it: water resources
economics, institutional management, regulatory and participatory issues.
Having experienced difficulties in pushing some reforms in the areas of
tariff systems, institutional restructuring, decentralization, etc. in
certain countries, the Bank is also best placed to realistically assess
the likelihood of progress on the above-mentioned reforms.Bank's
participation builds on important investments undertaken in the sector, a
trusting collaboration and therefore provides continuity for
implementation of the (sought after) long term water management strategy.
Moreover, other donors active in the water sector in Tunisia are ready to
intervene even more actively in the context of a new strategic framework
and are looking to the Bank to take the lead in assisting the Government
define the framework and help implement it.
4. Description
In addition to key policy and institutional reforms measures described in
Section C-2, the project would be developed around the following
investment components: Irrigation Management (including small and large
scale perimeter rehabilitation); Groundwater Management; Conservation of
Water Resource base and Environmental Protection, Rural Water Supply, and
Capacity-Building. Central to all components would be knowledge
development and dissemination activities for irrigation efficiency and
management, drainage and salinity management, acquifer recharge, treated
waste water reuse, etc. This will also be complemented by the
strengthening of public/private capacity for needed research and extension
in the upcoming Bank-supported Agriculture Services Initiative. A
detailed description of project components is available in Annex 2.
Irrigation Management
Groundwater Management
Water Conservation and Environmental Protection
Rural Water Supply
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity-Building
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               137.5
IBRD                     103
IDA
-3-



KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU 17.5
Total Project Cost       258
6. Implementation
Institutional and implementation arrangements would follow those
established for ASIL and ASIL2 and proved to be fully satisfactory.Project
Coordination.    Overall project coordination among the executing units
would be assured by the DGFE (Direction Generale du Financement et des
Encouragements) and a Coordinating Committee chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture and comprised of key directorates and other institutional
partners (MINCOOP, MINFIN, MINECODEV, MEAT, ONAS, ANPE, SONEDE). Project
Implementation. The Ministry of Agriculture would be the overall
executing agency for implementation of the project, with investment
preparation guidelines and sub-sector policy pursued at the central
Ministry level by the: (i) Directorate General of Rural Works (DGGR) for
the irrigation and rural water supply components; and (ii) Directorate
General of Water Resources (DGRE) for the groundwater monitoring and
prospecting component. At the regional level the Regional Commissariats
for Agricultural Development (CRDA) would be responsible for sub-project
identification, preparation and monitoring and for coordination across
technical units at the local level. For activities for which close
collaboration between the Ministry of Agriculture and its traditional
partners (ONAS, SONEDE, AVFA, and IRESA) is required, contractual
agreements would be established along the same lines as those in effect in
ASIL2.Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements.
Accounting and financial reporting will be assured centrally by the
Project Coordination Unit within DGFE. During the first three years
(2001-2003), Technical Directorates involved in the WSIL will act on
behalf of CRDAs and would be responsible for financial management and
accounting duties for activities managed by their field representatives.
They would maintain accounting records for components under their
responsibility, prepare and disseminate sub-project accounts financial
management reports. They would also ensure timely transmission of these
documents to DGFE. During the first 18 months, a simplified Project
Management Report (PMR) will be issued. After this 18-months period, the
content of the PMR would be gradually expanded to include all evaluation
and performance indicators, and budget forecasts. DGFE would be
responsible for aggregating this data and submit a periodic (quarterly: to
be agreed at negotiations) PMR to the Bank and make it available to
auditors. Audits would be done by the General Controller of Finances
(CGF) of the Ministry of Finance in accordance with acceptable auditing
standards and would be made available to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year.Disbursements from the Bank Loan would initially
be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and direct
payments. The Tunisian authorities may choose to convert to PMR-based
disbursements if and when a certificate confirming that the financial
management system in place is operating satisfactorily. The target date
for the issuance of this certificate is June 30, 2002. Monitoring and
Evaluation Arrangements. The DGFE would be responsible, with inputs from
all implementing units, for monitoring of financial and physical progress
on investment implementation, for progress reporting on execution of
policy measures and development impact, for coordinating disbursement, and
for semi-annual project implementation reports. The above arrangements
were detailed during appraisal and will be reconfirmed at negotiations.
- 4 -



7. Sustainability
Sustainability would be addressed at three different levels: Water
resource use: As the main thrust of the WSIL is to shift emphasis from a
water mobilization strategy to a long term demand management strategy, the
WSIL is expected to significantly contribute to implementing reforms and
financing investments that would be conducive to increased sustainability
of water resource use.     Irrigation:     (i) involving beneficiaries in
validating planning assumptions about future farm activities to ensure
that these are realistic and sufficient to permit farmers to pay water
charges to local management groups that will be contractually responsible
for operations and maintenance; (ii) improving financial autonomy of
irrigation user groups, and ensuring that these implement water charges
that are sufficient to provide for replacement of irrigation equipment,
without further subsidies from Government; (iii) defining future tariff
policy for public delivery of irrigation water, going beyond O&M recovery
to include partial capital cost recovery, and thereby encouraging water
savings in agricultural uses; and (iv) introducing piloting of water use
rights for irrigation water user groups and thereby increasing incentives
for efficient use and local market development.      Groundwater resource
use: (i) better identification of the resource through exploration,
monitoring, and evaluation (including modeling); (ii) strengthening of
quality and quantity monitoring; (iii) integration of surface and
groundwater monitoring; (iv) computer data storage and dissemination to
stakeholders (v) developing methodologies for the monitoring of water
extraction from shallow aquifers; and (vi) piloting, for shallow aquifers,
user-defined and implemented sustainable management plans.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed WSIL builds on lessons learned during the implementation of
major projects in the water sector (ASIL, ASIL2, Rural Water Supply and
Sewerage, Greater Tunis Sewerage and Reuse Project) and findings of
strategic studies (Eau 2000, Eau 21, Etude sur le secteur de l'Eau)
undertaken during the past several years and corresponding consultations
with key government staff, donors and the private sector (WUAs and UTAP in
particular). Key lessons include: (i) the need for extensive consultation
on the reform process, (ii) the need for capacity building concomitantly
with investments, and (iii) progressivity in the implementation of policy
measures). As a result, planned reforms were designed after extensive
consultation with all stakeholders. Their impacts will be closely
monitored so as to gradually phase them in on the basis of a consensus and
not conditionalities. Experiences with water sector projects in other
countries (Algeria, Morocco, Jordan, Cyprus, etc.) have been looked at
during the project design process. Key issues addressed during appraisal
and reflected in the project design concern:Sustainable Groundwater
Management. The appropriate management approach will vary according to
circumstances, but what is most urgent for the Government is to develop a
methodology and capacity for participatory design and implementation of
groundwater management. The WSIL would pilot this approach.Water Users'
Associations About 60t of existing WUAs are yet to achieve financial
autonomy. The WSIL would support WUAs in the irrigation subsector towards
such financial autonomy.Multiplicity of Technical Units. The structure of
the Ministry of Agriculture at both the central and regional levels
fragments water management into a number of technical units. This does
not facilitate comparison across technical options for solving local water
availability/management constraints to identify the least-cost
- 5 -



alternative. The WSIL would help re-focus technical departments more on
policy formulation and monitoring and less on investment project
preparation and support the creation of a socio-economic unit at the
cabinet level at MOA. Participatory Management. Beneficiary involvement
from the beginning for agricultural investment projects that use water
(e.g. irrigation infrastructure) is critical to the success of their
activities and for guaranteeing the durability of water systems. The
Ministry of Agriculture has strengthened its participatory methodology for
small-scale irrigation creation and is already implementing this for ASIL2
sub-projects. This methodology would be monitored during implementation
through beneficiary assessments, refined, and its application extended in
the proposed WSIL for investments in artificial recharge, rural water
supply, and the rehabilitation of irrigated perimeters in
particular.Institutional Responsibilities for treated wastewater re-use
and water quality issues in agriculture are fragmented among ONAS/the
Ministry of the Environment, the CRDAs, user associations and the Ministry
of Public Health. The WSIL would strengthen coordination mechanisms, and
support capacity building efforts in the implementing agencies.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The lending instrument is a sector investment loan
and therefore, the approach used during appraisal was to conduct a
specific sub-sectoral environmental review (irrigation and
drainage/agriculture) to ensure that adequate environmental impact
assessment procedures are in place as needed for sub-project components.
The environmental assessment was carried out by an independent consultant
who consulted with the staff in the key technical units in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Environment, the Agence Nationale pour la
protection de l'environnement (ANPE), and selected CRDAs. In addition,
consultations were also held with the other cofinanciers (notably, KfW and
the African Development Bank). Selected field visits were also carried
out. The results of the environmental assessment indicated that no major
negative environmental impacts are expected. In fact, the project is
expected to result in enhanced environmental benefits through increased
efficiency of water use, drainage improvements which would enhance soil
quality and reduce production losses, improved management of groundwater
quality and quantity, and more generally, improving decision-making
processes. The EMP currently being finalized incorporates many of the
mitigation measures outlined in the Environmental Management Plan
developed in conjunction with the ongoing ASIL2 and will continue to be
adhered to for specific sub-projects. All individual sub-projects under
the WSIL will continue to require individual EIAs in accordance with the
national law under which the ANPE was created (loi no. 88-91, modified by
loi no. 92-115). It was agreed with the Government during appraisal that
the sectoral assessment as well as any other environmental studies would
be made available to the public in accordance with the requirements of OP
4.01.Specifically, the SEA determined that only the activities to be
carried out under three project components, the Irrigation Management
component, the Groundwater Management component, and the Rural Drinking
Water Supply component, might have an effect on the environment, if any.
The SEA concluded that potential adverse impacts in irrigation and
groundwater development, if any, could be fully mitigated, if the national
environmental assessment procedures are applied systematically. With
- 6 -



regard to Rural Water Supply, discussions are underway with the DGGR to
simultaneously program facilities for wastewater disposal and sanitation.
This will require close coordination with ONAS, in line with its recent
Sector Strategy for Rural Sanitation.    For environmental reasons and for
public health reasons such coordination to avoid unnecessary pollution in
rural areas is essential.The main issues with potential environmental
implications are: water and soil quality (pertaining to pollution,
wastewater treatment etc.); groundwater management; and drainage. The
small-scale irrigation development component is not expected to have major
environmental impacts. The impact on groundwater aquifer management is
expected to be minimal since the administration (DGRE) is capably
monitoring irrigation development, and only permits additional tubewell
irrigation capacity to be installed where renewable groundwater resources
are not overexploited. In order to qualify for financing under the
Project, for each tubewell irrigation sub-project, the Bank will require
documentation (from DGRE) that demonstrates the water requirement of the
project in relation to the current exploitation and renewable resource
status of the aquifer involved. The monitoring of the realization of the
SEA Environmental Management Plan will be carried out during project
supervision, and will be presented as part of the annual implementation
report to be submitted by the Government to the Bank for review on an
ex-post basis. In addition, the Government would send for prior review to
the Bank the Environmental Management Plan (incorporating the mitigation
measures proposed in the SEA) duly approved by ANPE for 2 small-scale
irrigation projects (to be confirmed during negotiations).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Madani M. Tall
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7506
Fax: 202-477-1981
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 30, 2000.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-8-



