E-363
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
PRET AUX INVESTISSEMENTS DU SECTEUR DE L'EAU
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE
April 2000
- --UURRINK
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT






REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
PRET AUX INVESTISSEMENTS DU SECTEUR DE L'EAU
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE
April 2000
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
America                                Europe                                  Africa
1436 Layrnan Street                 De Bongerd 31                           B.P. 6584
McLean, VA 22101, USA        7041 GK 's Heerenberg. Netherlands       Yaoundk, Cameroun
Phone: 1 (703) 847 2604         Telefoon: 31 (314) 350 477        TIphone: (237) 30 53 37
Fax 1 (703) 847 2605             Fax :11.31 314) 666 040              Fac (237) 30 53 37
E-mail: buursink@aol.com       K. van K. Enschede: 33256320       E-mail: eyete@camnet.cm



I                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Il



WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SECTORAL ENVIRONNEMENTAL ANALYSIS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION ..................................................1
I. POLICY, INSTITUTIONAL, AND LEGAL CONTEXT                                  .2
A. Policy context                                      .2
B. Institutional context                                  .2
C. Legal context                                       .3
H.   WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN (WSIL) ..................................................4
A.   Objectives of WSIL ..................................................4
B.   Components of WSIL .................................................4
mU.  DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT OF WSIL ............................6.....................6
A.   Ecosystems and ecological regions of Tunisia ..................................................6
B.   Pressure on the natural environment ..................................................7
IV.  APPLICABLE WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES ..................................................9
A. Safeguard Policy 4.01 Environmental assessment                       .9
B. Safeguard Policy 4.04 Natural habtats .10
C. Safeguard Policy 4.09 Pest management .10
D. Safeguard Policy 4.11 Cultural property .10
E. Safeguard Policy 4.20 Indigenous people .11
F.  Safeguard Policy 4.30 Involuntary resettlement .11
G. Safeguard policy 4.36 Forestry .11
H. Safeguard Policy 4.37 Safety of dams .11
I.    Safeguard Policy 7.50 Projects on international waterways .12
J.  Safeguard Policy 7.60 Projects in disputed areas .12



V.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF WATER SECTOR INVESTMENTS ............................ 13
A.  Indicative environmental impacts of irrigation development ............................................... 13
B.  Indicative environmental impacts of ground water management ........................................ 15
C.  Indicative environmental impacts of rural drinking water supply ...................................... 15
VI.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR WSIL ...................................................... 16
A.  Environmental management in the water sector in general    .    .16
B.   Environmental management in irrigation development   .       .17
1.  Studies and analyses required in irrigation development - soil resources .17
2.  Studies and analyses required in irrigation development - water resources .18
3.  Institutional/legal measures required in irrigation development .19
4. Public information required in irrigation development .22
C.  Environmental management in groundwater management    .         .23
1. Institutional/legal measures required in groundwater management .23
2. Public information required in groundwater management .23
D.  Environmental management in rural water supply .24
E.   Synopsis of the Environmental Management Plan of WSIL .25
V]II. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN OF WSIL . 26
A.  Institutional responsibilities for EMP implementation ............................................ 26
B. Integration of EMP into project design .27
C.  Cost estimate of EMP .............................. 28
D.  Environmental monitoring of EMP ..............................                 33
ANNEXES ................................                                             34
Annex 01     Abbreviations
Annex 02     Bibliography
Annex 03     Persons consulted
Annex 04     Mandate of the Ministry of Environment and Land Use Planning
Annex 05     ANPE - Decree 91-362 regulating EAs
Annex 06     Draft TORs for water resource studies
Annex 07     Min. of Agriculture participatory perimeter planning



LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1          Project component - Irrigation Management ..............................................................5
Figure 2          Project component - Groundwater Management ..............................................................               5
Figure 3          Project component - Drinking Water Supply ..............................................................5
Figure 4          Bioclimatic regions and socio-agro-economic zones of Tunisia . ...........................................              8
Figure 5          Environmental impacts of irrigation development and their mitigation ............................... 14
Figure 6          Environmental impacts of ground water management and their mitigation ......................... 15
Figure 7          Water availability and water use in Tunisia .............................................................             17
Figure 8          Budget for regional environmental assessment of the Medjerda valley ..............                         ................. 19
Figure 9          Environmental procedures in irrigation management ........................................................... 21
Figure 10         Summary of CITET training activities in 2000 .............................................................             22
Figure 11         Synopsis of the Environmental Management Plan of WSIL ............................... ................. 25
Figure 12         Institutional responsibility for implementation of the EMP of WSIL ...............                       ................... 26
Figure 13         Integration of the EMP into the project ........................                  ..................................... 27
Figure 14         Cost of the EMP of WSIL .............................................................                                 28
Figure 15         Budget for systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in irrigated areas ...........                     .......... 29
Figure 16         Budget for systematic rapid assessment of other forms of soil degradation ......................... 29
Figure 17         Budget for a National Master Plan for Water Pollution Management .................................. 30
Figure 18         Budget for inventory of sources of water pollution ............................................................. 30
Figure 19         Budget for establishment of a national network to monitor water quality ............................ 30
Figure 20   Budget for role of Government agencies responsible for management of water pollution.. 31
Figure 21         Budget for re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and irrigation ......................... 31
Figure 22   Budget for training of DGGR/DGRE staff in Environmental and Social Assessment ......... 32
Figure 23         Budget for review  and update of environmental clauses in contracts ................................... 32
Figure 24         Budget to improve public awareness of and participation in EAs ........................................ 32



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                         I



INTRODUCTION
This report' provides an environmental analysis of the Water Sector Investment Loan (WSIL) in Tunisia,
which is considered a sector environmental analysis in line with the sectoral nature of the project. The
report is based on brief field analysis and review of documentation on the environmental aspects of WSIL
available in the project files.
After introductory chapters, World Bank Safeguard Policies have been presented as a framework for the
analysis of the environmental impacts and preparation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
Safeguard Policies also constitute a basis to assess the significance of specific environmental impacts.
The impact analysis identifies the major direct and indirect environmental impacts of the project, but does
not explicitly identify social issues.
The EMP addresses the major impacts and identifies concrete follow-up actions. However, the EMP is
not only to ensure compliance with Safeguard Policies, but is also in response to other impacts. In
particular, the EMP includes actions designed to directly benefit environmental management of Tunisia's
water sector. The EMP also covers the implementation aspects: the institutional arrangements, budget
estimates, and monitoring and evaluation of all proposed actions.
The report was prepared by John Buursink, environmental planner, under contract with the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the UN. The analysis was guided by Shobha Shetti, Economist, World Bank and Marc Bral, TCIE,
FAO.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                            I



I.    POLICY, INSTITUTIONAL, AND LEGAL CONTEXT
A. POLICY CONTEXT
The great importance attributed to environmental concerns by the Govermnent of Tunisia is best
expressed by the annual publication of a National Report on the State of the Environment. In the preface
to the 1998 edition of the National Report, the President of the Republic wrote:
Our choices in environmental matters are founded on the general concept that we have of human
rights. They are based on the balance between economic and social development, the integrity of
ecological systems, and the needs of present and future generations. A sound environment is an
essential condition for improving the living conditions of humankind and for attaining sustainable
development, and complements the various aspects of our social policy.
The Government of Tunisia has also clearly demonstrated its will to preserve the national environment by
establishing a number of specialized environmental institutions and by preparing specific environmental
legislation.
B. INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT
Already in 1988, Tunisia began developing its institutional framework for environmental management
with the creation of a National Environmental protection Agency (ANPE). In 1993, this development
was further strengthened when the Ministry of Environment and Land Use Planning was created by
special decree (see Annex 4)2. The first article of the decree charges the Ministry with the following
tasks:
"To propose, in collaboration with the Ministries and agencies concerned, the Government's
policy in the areas of environmental protection and nature conservation, of improving living
conditions, and of land use planning, and to monitor its implementation".
"To promote legislation with regard to environmental protection, nature conservation, and land use
planning through general or specific measures and by setting norms to maintain the natural balance";
"To conserve and improve the quality of the environment in general, the quality of life, the
prevention, the reduction or the elimination of risks that threaten people, flora and fauna and the
physical environmental aspects such as air, water and soils, to preserve and develop open space
necessary for future generations and areas that allow for the development and wild species and
natural landscapes."
2Decret N° 93-303 du le Fevrier 1993 fixant les attributions du Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Amenagement
du Territoire.
2



The Ministry of Environment now includes a number of key agencies such as ANPE, CITET, and ONAS.
* ANPE (Agence National de Protection de l'Environnement) has specific responsibility
o  to decide for which projects an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required or a
Summary Description (see Decree N 91-362 of 1991, regulating ELAs, in Annex 5 for
details);
o  To prepare terms of reference for ElAs for each sector;
o  To examine and approve EIA and Summary Description reports;
o  To transmit to the promoter of a project and to the competent authorities a positive or
negative decision with regard to the issuance of a permit.
* CITET (Centre International des Technologies de l'Environnement de Tunis) was established in
1996 for
o Institutional strengthening through training, technical assistance, transfer of technologies
and applied research;
o Collection and dissemination of environmental information.
• ONAS (Office National de l'Assainissement) is charged with
o  The fight against water pollution in special zones (urban, industrial and tourist areas);
o  The management, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of all urban
waste water infrastructure;
o  The preparation of studies for and the implementation of waste water treatment facilities
in rural areas.
In addition, important directorates exist in other Ministries with responsibilities for the management of
specific sectors of the environment. Examples of these are the Directorate of Water Resources and the
Directorate of Soils in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Apart from the Government, a strong private sector of consulting fimns and NGOs is available to
implement the enviromnental actions required.
C. LEGAL CONTEXT
Tunisia's national legal framework for environmental matters has three important characteristics:
* It is well endowed by a regulatory basis for environmental assessments
* The Ministry of Environment is in position to provide the necessary coordination in
environmental legislation
* Enforcement of environmental laws is strictly applied.
Law #88-91 stipulates in Article 5 that an EIA be presented to ANPE before the commencement of any
industrial, commercial, and agricultural undertaking. Specific procedural regulations provide detailed
prescriptions for the classification of projects, the submittal, preparation and terms of reference of EIAs.
In addition, other laws and sector decrees also require the preparation of EIA-type studies, such as the
regulations with regards to the operation of quarries and borrow sites (decree 93-163), the Water law, the
Forest Law, and the Law on Land Use and Urbanization (Law #122-1994).
3



II.    WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN (WSIL)
A. OBJECTIVES OF WSIL
The WSIL program seeks to improve living conditions in the rural areas of Tunisia through the promotion
of reforms and investments that will strengthen the irrigation sub-sector, help the Government get a better
handle on the management of groundwater resources, and provide better access to safe potable water for
rural populations.
To this end, the capacity of the Government, WUAs, and private operators to efficiently manage water
resources will be strengthened, and conservation of water resources and protection of the environment
will be a priority. The WSIL will help give concrete content to the three main tenets of the new strategy
for the water sector3, namely (1) participatory demand management, (2) integrated management of ground
and surface water resources, and (3) water conservation and environmental protection.
The sector-related CAS goals are to:
* Improve the conservation and sustainable management of natural resources, mainly water, and the
protection of the environment; and
*  Alleviate poverty, especially in rural areas.
B. COMPONENTS OF WSIL
WSIL has the following investment components:
-  Irrigation Management (small and large scale rehabilitation),
*  Groundwater Management,
*  Water Resources Conservation and Environmental Protection,
-  Rural Potable Water,
a  Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building.
In addition to these components, a number of priority studies, including those to prepare a follow-up
phase have also been included in WSIL. A detailed description of each component is available in the
WSIL Project Appraisal Document.
Three key components might have potential environmental impacts; these are the Irrigation Management
(small and large scale rehabilitation), the Groundwater Management, and the Rural Potable Water supply
components. A summary description of the three key components is presented in the following tables.
3Republique Tunisienne. Ministere de l'Agriculture. DGRE. Etude du secteur de l'eau. Orientations strategiques
du secteur de 1eau. Rapport definitif Groupement Bechtel Intemnational - SCET-Tunisie. Tunis, 1999.
4



Figure 1      Project component - Irrigation Management
Key Project Activities                                              Quantities
Construction of tube well-based irrigation perimeters - PI-FOR      56 perimeters, 3,000 ha
Construction of irrigation perimeters using treated waste water - PI-EUT  8 perimeters, 580 ha
Rehabilitation of existing irrigation perimeters - PI-FOR           40 perimeters, 7,800 ha
Rehab. of existing irrigation perimeters using hot geothermal water - PI-EGT  14 perimeters, 2,100 ha
Drainage installation on existing irrigation perimeters             3,700 ha
Electrification of pumping installations and tube wells             28 stations
Construction of flood control perimeters - AFD                      Sidi Bouzid
Creation of watering points at pastoral routes                      17 watering points
Drilling of production bore holes for irrigation and water supply   25
Moderization of Medjerda Valley infrastructure - feasibility - KfW  3,000 ha
Figure 2      Project component - Groundwater Management
Specific Project Activities                                         Quantities
Drilling of exploratory boreholes                                  3310 boreholes
Installation of piezometers                                         610 piezometers
Artificial groundwater recharge from surface water (1) from the dams of the
North, (2) from lakes and retention dams, and (3) from dams in the Center
Pilot artificial recharge activities from treated waste water in the Sfax area
Strengthening of water management capabilities of MA
Figure 3      Project component - Drinking Water Supply
Specific Project Activities                                         Quantities
Provision of new drinking water supply systems                      100,000 rural dwellers
Rehabilitation of existing of drinking water supply facilities
5



M.   DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT OF WSIL
Project activities of WSIL will take place all over Tunisia, from ground water recharge in the North to
irrigation development in the oases of the south, and water supply in widely distributed areas. Essentially
all main ecological zones of Tunisia are implicated in the project. For a better understanding of project
interventions, a brief description of these ecological zones is given below.
A. ECOSYSTEMS AND ECOLOGICAL REGIONS OF TUNISIA
There are seven major ecosystems in Tunisia: coastal, island, wetland, mountain, steppe, desert, and
oasis.4
Coastal and island ecosystem. Tunisia's 1200 km of coast gives it one of the highest coast/surface area
ratios in Africa. Eight major island archipelagos and several small islands are distributed along the coast.
Wetlands. Of the more than 100 permanent and temporary wetlands, many are of international
importance. Each year more than 75,000 flamingos, 400,000 anatids (ducks) and 250,000 coots and
morehens use the wetland and coastal areas. The wetlands include 7 large marine lakes and more than 30
salt lakes (sebkhets and chotts). Several freshwater wetlands exist, including at least 1 permanent and
many seasonal lakes. Dar Fatma, a peat bog in the northwest, has many rare and geographically isolated
plant species.
Mountain systems. Five major mountain systems contain most of the forest and endemic plants of
Tunisia. In the northwest the Khroumirie/Mogod mountain chains are the wettest part of the country and
barbary deer live in forests of cork oak Quercus suber, zen oak Quercus canariensis, and the rare
Quercus afares. The High Tell and Tunisian Dorsal Mountain ranges shelter endangered Cuvier's
gazelles and hyena in Pinus halipensis/Quercus ilex forests. A few stands of the rare maple tree Acer
monspessulanus occur in the Tunisian Dorsal and thuya Callitris articulata a species with tropical
affinities, is dominant in the forests of Bou Komine National Park. Mountains in the high steppes of
central Tunisia and the Douirat mountains of southern Tunisia are dominated byJuniperus and other
species characteristic of degraded forests, in which aoudad (barbary mountain sheep) Ammotragus lervia
occur.
Steppe. Vast areas are dominated by steppe vegetation.
The High Steppes near Kasserine contain the densest esparto grass (Stipa tennacissima) of the country
and a processing plant has been constructed to make paper from esparto fibers. Wild boar and hyena are
commonly found in the High Steppes.
Low Steppes, east of Sidi Bou Zid and in the Kairouan area, are dominated by sage (Artemesia) and
Zizyphus lotus and the halophile vegetation of the many salt lakes distributed in the region. Threatened
houbara bustards nest in the low steppes.
The last remaining remnants of the sub-Sahara type savanna dominated by Acacia raddiana trees are
found in the Subdesertic Littoral Steppe at Bou Hedma. Addax, Oryx and Ostrich - exterminated in the
past century - have been re-introduced at Bou Hedma, and dorcas gazelles exist there and in the region of
Hamada. In the Subdesertic Continental Steppe, saga plains grade to Rhanterium and Arthrophytum
plains - the former range of several species of ungulates.
4USAID. Scott D. Posner. Biological Diversity and Tropical Forests in Tunisia, Washington, 1988
6



Desert. Pseudo-forests of Calligonum comosum and the Grand Erg endemics Calligonum azel and
Calligonum arich dominate the Sahara desert or Eastem Grand Erg. There are more than 2,500,000 ha of
Sahara type dessert in Tunisia; if desertic steppes are included the area is 4,000,000 ha. Vegetation
removal and wind erosion are increasing the desert area by 18,000 ha each year. Endangered slender
homed gazelles, the North African endemic gundi, and a wide variety of birds and herpes are found in the
desert.
Oases. Dispersed in the steppes and desert edges are more than 75,000 ha of oases. Intense cultivation
restricts the natural vegetation, but some rare plants do occur. Few mammals tolerate the high rate of
human activity in the oases, but the lush vegetation provides important feeding and resting sites for many
sedentary passerine and migratory birds.
B. PRESSURE ON THIE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
There is considerable pressure on the natural resources of Tunisia5. The pressure in the past century has
been essentially the result of human influence, and is linked to:
* Demographic pressure, which has multiplied by a factor five in that period, and
*  Economic pressure, which has increased by a factor of ten due to technological developments.
The concentration of these activities, sometimes associated with an inappropriate exploitation system, has
furthermore jeopardized the integrity of certain resources, in particular soils and aquifers, and endangered
their sustainable use. Two types of environment are particularly affected by overpopulation in Tunisia:
the mountain forests and the steppes.
The mountain forests are degraded by cattle and human activity, a phenomenon that is in particular
serious in the Tunisian Dorsal Mountain, especially in the Kroumirie-Mogods forests.
As for the Steppes, three types of overpopulation and concomitant pressure on the natural resource base,
can be distinguished:
* Demographic overpopulation - resulting from lack of activity: located south of a line from
Thala to Skhira.
* Economic overpopulation - intense, but low productive agricultural activity: situated in the
intermediary zone, in particular the regions of Mahdia and Kairouan.
* Ecologic overpopulation - rich, highly productive agricultural activity: overpumping of aquifers
and irrigated perimeters of Sidi Bouzid.
The overpopulation situation is largely the result of actions undertaken in the last decennia that were
designed to keep the population in the interior regions of the country, often through costly development
projects. The projects usually did not consider the economic, let alone the environmental cost of
development.
The EMP of the WSIL project was designed against the background of increasing pressure on the natural
resources as described above.
5 Republique Tunisienne. Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Amnnagement du Territoire. Rapport national.
L'etat de l1environnement. 1998. Tunis, 1999
7



Figure 4          Bioclimatic regions and socio-agro-economic zones of Tunisia6
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D L _ ~~~~KERKENA'
U _ b _ w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 100 
-LI
X     S                       - ~~~~~~~~~ /    7 ~~~~~Ligende                 -       -       f
.I   Etogge bwlnoiquesNq                                                  20z ocbrm~&
0                                                r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Subhumk*i  Kroumlrle-Mogood  9R                                                                     i ( Chlinons tiasiclm
.   O   SOM-mMe & MdouxE                                                 S   Nord-  Cap Son        9()tr&ur
7 C;J -Fhx ~~~~~~~~~~~El                                                                    (D) JoShdhl & Ouar-bna
D          ^  tdu                             Echelle  ,         EL     (i  Haule Steppew                   (§   Chottsi
t    t   t;S||f,,               !r~6---5 -10Okm       Yo      ( 880sseStppe                      (D    Gqnd Erg
scro                                                        0
6 Republique Tunisienne. Ministere de l'EnvironneInent et de l'Amenagemnent du Territoire. Rapport national.
L'etat de 1-evironnement. 1998. Tunis, 1999
8



IV. APPLICABLE WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES
WSIL project activities are financed by the World Bank and are therefore subject to the Bank's Safeguard
Policies7. The relevance of each of the ten specific Safeguard Policies with regard to the WSIL project
was verified. Below is a brief discussion of the Safeguard Policies to indicate which policies are pertinent
to the project, precisely what part of the policies, if any, is relevant to WSIL project design, and which
specific WSIL components and activities are implicated.
A. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.01          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
As evidenced by this SEA report, the WSIL project as a whole is subject to environmental assessment
prior to its commencement. Individual project activities that cannot be defined at this time during project
preparation are subject to separate environmental assessments, once they are identified during
implementation of the WSIL project. Separate environmental assessments in particular for small-scale
irrigation projects, ground water development, and rural water supply facilities, have been budgeted.
According to Tunisia's national environmental rules and regulations, all project activities are subject to
environmental analysis, either in the form of a summary environmental description or an environmental
impact analysis. The analyses are to be carried out under supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, the
promoter of the project activities, and are subject to approval by ANPE, the National Environmental
Protection Agency. SEA observations confirmed the findings of an earlier in-depth analysis of Tunisia's
Environmental Assessment system, carried out by the Bank8 in 1998, which concluded that the system is
among the best in the Mediterranean region.
The Ministry has already issued TOR for environmental assessment of irrigation projects in general and
for projects using treated wastewater in particular. To ensure that existing environmental regulations are
indeed scrupulously applied and adhered to, the Environmental Management Plan of the SEA
recommends specific measures, which have been costed in project design.
The Project now comprises training for selected staff of the DGGR and DGRE to strengthen their
awareness and understanding of national environmental and social assessment requirements. Training
sessions will address in particular the EA procedures and responsibilities, public participation in project
planning and in project design, and the dissemination of published EA reports to the public. Also,
updating of environmental clauses was incorporated into the project. This involves a review of the
standard contracts between the Ministry of Agriculture, or its local CRDAs (Commissariat Regional de
Developpement Agricole), and construction firms, and possible revision of the concession documents
between the Ministry and AICs (Associations d'Interet Collectif) to operate irrigated perimeters. Such
clauses will help ensure that proposed environmental measures are indeed implemented both during the
construction/rehabilitation phase and during the operation phase of specific projects.
For each of the three project subcomponents concerned, the WSIL project is in compliance with this
Safeguard Policy, provided the actions prescribed under "Institutional Measures" and under
7The World Bank Operational Manual, Volume II, Project Requirements
8 Banque Mondiale. Sherif Arif, Jaafar Friaa. Tunisia: Environment Mission. BTO report. Washington, 1998
9



"Education and public information" in the Enviromnental Management Plan (Chapter V) are
implemented. The measures have been integrated into the project design.
B. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.04           NATURAL HABITATS
OP 4.04 prescribes: "If the environmental assessment indicates that a project would significantly convert or degrade
natural habitats, the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank". Natural habitats are defined as
"land and water areas where (1) the ecosystems' biological communities are formed largely by native plant and
animal species, and (2) human activity has not essentially modified the area's primary ecological functions".
WSIL project activities do not involve significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats in
Tunisia. The WSIL project is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy
C. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.09           PEST MANAGEMENT
Procurement of pesticides is not envisaged under the project. However, increased irrigated farming may
increase the use of agricultural pesticides. The following criteria apply to the use of pesticides in Bank-
financed projects:
They must have negligible adverse human health aspects.
They must be shown to be effective against the target species.
They must have minimal effect on nontarget species and the natural environment.
Their use must take into account the need to prevent the development of resistance in pests.
WSIL planned expansion and rehabilitation of irrigated areas may indirectly somewhat increase the use of
agrochemicals. This is not a major impact, in particular because pest populations in Tunisia are normally
controlled through IPM approaches, such as biological control, cultural practices, and pest resistant
varieties. The WSIL project - Irrigation component - is therefore considered in compliance with the
Safeguard Policy
D. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.11           CULTURAL PROPERTY
The Bank's policy is to seek to avoid elimination of cultural properties and to assist in their preservation.
The irrigation and grou d water development components of the WSIL project involve some movement of
earth and surficial environmental changes, which prima facie entail the risk of damaging cultural
property. In such a case, a determination is required of what is known about the cultural property aspects
of the proposed project sites, and where necessary a survey should be undertaken.
All WSIL project activities are sited and designed to prevent damage to cultural property. This is fully
ensured by the environmental impact process. The WSIL project was therefore determined to be in
compliance with the Safeguard Policy
10



E. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.20    INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
The term "indigenous people" describes social groups with a social and cultural identity distinct from the
dominant society that makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development process.
Indigenous people can be identified by the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics:
(a) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas;
(b) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group;
(c) an indigenous language, often different from the national language;
(d) presence of customary social and political institutions; and
(e) primarily subsistence-oriented production.
There is no indication that indigenous people in Tuniisa will be affected by the WSIL project. The WSIL
project is therefore in compliance with the Safeguard Policy.
F. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.30    INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT
Development projects that displace people involuntarily generally give rise to severe economic, social,
and environmental problems. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-term hardship,
impoverishment, and environmental damage unless appropriate measures are carefully planned and
carried out.
The WSIL project does not involve involuntary resettlement. All new irrigation perimeters are sited on
the basis of a comprehensive participatory planning approach. At the same time, these are small
perimeters (50 to 200 ha each), involving land that is often already farmed, and therefore usually not
requiring relocation of farm dwellings. Irrigation enhances the farming options of existing farmers. The
WSIL project was determined to be in compliance with the Safeguard Policy.
G. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.36    FORESTRY.
The WSIL project is not directly involved in Tunisia's forest sector. By creating alternative
income-generating options and reduce poverty, the project is expected to have a beneficial, indirect
impact on the preservation of remaining woodlands.
H. SAFEGUARD POLICY 4.37    SAFETY OF DAMS
The WSIL project does not include dams and storage of surface water. All new irrigation development to
be financed under the project is based on the use of groundwater. The WSIL project is therefore in
compliance with the Safeguard Policy, without further project measures.
11



I. SAFEGUARD POLICY 7.50          PROJECTS ON INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS
The WSIL project does not involve international waterways. All project activities take place in Tunisian
watersheds. The WSIL project is therefore in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, without further
project measures.
J. SAFEGUARD POLICY 7.60          PROJECTS IN DISPUTED AREAS
The project does not involve activities in disputed areas. The WSIL project is in compliance with the
Safeguard Policy, without further project measures.
As indicated above, the WSIL project is in compliance with nine out of ten Safeguard Policies without
any further specific measures.
Therefore, only the issue related to the first Safeguard Policy, Environmental Assessment, is a pertinent
concern. The issue has been integrated in the impact discussion and in the Environmental Management
Plan of the following chapters. The EMP indicates in detail how the WSIL project will comply with the
first Safeguard Policies, and thus enhance project sustainability. In conclusion therefore, the SEA found
that the project fully complies with World Bank O.M. Safeguard Policies.
12



V.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF WATER SECTOR INVESTMENTS
As discussed in Chapter II, only the activities to be carried out under three project components, the
Irrigation Management component, the Groundwater Management component, and the Rural Drinking
Water Supply component, might have an effect on the environment, if any.
Tunisia's national legislation requires that all project activities be subjected to environmental analysis,
either in the form of a summary environmental description or an environmental impact analysis. The
analyses are to be carried out under supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), the promoter of the
project activities, and are subject to approval by ANPE, the National Environmental Protection Agency.
Tunisia's Environmental Assessment system is among the best in the Mediterranean region, an
observation confirmed by the findings of an in-depth analysis of Tunisia's EA system, carried out by the
Bank9 in 1998.
Individual project activities that cannot all be defined during project preparation are subject to separate
environmental assessments, once they are identified. Separate environmental assessments in particular
for small-scale irrigation projects, ground water development, and rural water supply facilities, have been
budgeted.
The MA has already issued standard TOR for enviromnental assessment of irrigation projects in general
and for projects using treated wastewater in particular. To ensure that existing environmental regulations
are indeed scrupulously applied and adhered to, the Environmental Management Plan as presented in
Chapter VI stipulates specific actions to be taken.
It is emphasized here that the WSIL will generate important environmental benefits as a result of
improved surface water management through irrigation rehabilitation and as result of improved ground
water management through the introduction of participatory ground water management approaches.
As an indication of potential impacts, and to facilitate the project activity-specific assessments, a number
of impacts and possible mitigation measures have been listed in the tables below. The listing of impacts
is based on Tunisian conditions, but is not exhaustive; it is an indicative list.
A. INDICATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Potential adverse impacts of the Irrigation Management component, if any, can be fully mitigated, if the
national environmental assessment procedures are applied systematically. Potential negative impacts of
irrigation development are listed in the table below.
9 Banque Mondiale. Sherif Arif, Jaafar Friaa. Tunisia: Environment Mission. BTO report. Washington, 1998
13



Figure 5       Environmental impacts of irrigation development and their mitigation
Potential Negative Impacts               Mitigating Measures
Direct
Soil erosion.                            Design and protect terraces on hillside to minimize surface erosion
hazard
Salinization of soils                    Avoid water logging and improve drainage
Leach salts by flushing soils periodically
Cultivate crops with salinity tolerance
Use treated waste water instead of saline irrigation water
Leaching of nutrients from soil          Avoid of over watering
Replace of nutrients by fertilizers or crop rotation
Contamination of local ground water (higher  Improve agricultural practices and control of inputs (particularly
salinity, nutrients, agrochemicals)      biocides and chemical fertilizers)
Ensure quality of ONAS treated waste water used in irrigation
Reduction of downstream flows affecting  Regulate takeoff to mitigate effects
users of water and dilution of pollutants  Provide compensatory measures
Redesign irrigation project
Deterioration of river water quality below  Improve water management
irrigation project affecting fisheries and  Treat drainage water (e.g. settling ponds)
downstream users
Encroachment on wetlands and other       Adjust siting of projects to avoid or minimize encroachment on
ecologically sensitive areas             critical areas
Threat to historic, cultural or aesthetic  Adjust siting of project to prevent loss
features                                 Salvage or protect cultural sites
Health problems from use of wastewater   Ensure quality of ONAS treated waste water used in irrigation
irrigation
Indirect
Decrease in flow of river water, leading to  Control of waste sources downstream
increased pollution (decreased solution) and   Reduction of water take-off
health hazards from downstream industrial
and municipal pollutants
External
Water quality deterioration by upstream land   Control of land use in watershed areas
use and pollution discharge              Control of pollution sources
Several of the impacts and related mitigation measures listed above do not apply to the relatively small-
scale, groundwater-based irrigation perimeters that are part of the WSIL project.
Impacts related to irrigation from large rivers, such as the reduction of downstream flows and
deterioration of river water quality below an irrigation project, and the indirect and external impacts
indicated, are of concern primarily in the Medjerda valley. The WSIL project involves the modernization
of 3,000 ha infrastructure under KfW funding. Environmental assessment of this project activity will
therefore require assessment of the impacts related to irrigation from large rivers. Even though the
adverse impacts of rehabilitation of 3,000 ha in the Medjerda valley may still be limited, and in fact the
impacts of improved irrigation and drainage may be beneficial, the cumulative impact of this project
activities combined with extensive similar activities in the past, i.e. irrigation development in the
Medjerda as a whole, does have its impacts on the sustained use of natural resources, and warrants the
preparation of a Regional Environmental Assessment of Medjerda Valley Irrigation to address all
issues in a comprehensive manner.
14



I



B. INDICATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF GROUND WATER
MANAGEMENT
The potential adverse impacts of the Groundwater Management component, if any, are limited and can be
fully mitigated, if the national environmental assessment procedures are applied systematically.
Figure 6     Environmental impacts of ground water management and their mitigation
Potential Negative Impacts           Mitigating Measures
Direct during drilling and construction
Erosion from construction of ground  Protect most susceptible soil surfaces with mulch
water recharge sites and related access    Protect drainage channels with berms, straw or fabric barriers
roads                                Seed or plant erodible surfaces as soon as possible
Ground and water contamination by oil,  Collect and recycle lubricants
grease, and fuel in equipment yards  Take precautions to avoid accidental spills
Sedimentation of drilling muds in natural Dispose of muds with consent of local inhabitants
drainage ways
Environmental and social disruption by   Site construction camps carefully
construction camps
Direct permanent
Environmental and social disruption by   Compensate local land users and land owners
recharge sites
Destruction of vegetation and soil in  Alterative sites to minimize destruction alignments
recharge sites and equipment yards   Harvest and utilize public domain forest resources prior to
construction
Abandonment or lack of maintenance of  Establish appropriate closure dispositions
recharge sites
In the ground water component, environmental concerns are primarily related to the development of
artificial recharge sites. Environmental assessment of the first such site to be financed by the project
should include a full review of the procedures for site selection, site operation, and site abandonment to
ensure that all safeguards are in place for environmental protection.
C. INDICATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF RURAL DRINKING WATER
SUPPLY
The potential adverse impacts of the Groundwater Management component, if any, are minor. Potential
impacts are listed below. The potential beneficial impacts are unquestionably very important in public
health and social terms. The key concern here is that rural drinking water supply should go hand in hand
with provision of sanitation facilities, such as disposal of waste water, latrines, etc. Discussions are
underway with the DGGR to program facilities for wastewater disposal and sanitation in conjunction with
water supply. This will require close coordination with the ongoing rural sanitation programs managed
by ONAS, in line with its recent Sector Strategy for Rural Sanitation. For environmental reasons and for
public health reasons such coordination to avoid unnecessary pollution in rural areas is essential.
Introduction of rural drinking water and sanitation generally requires the conduct of local sanitation and
hygiene education program.
Feasibility studies required for the drinking water supply activities, both the provision of new systems and
the rehabilitation of existing systems would include the mandatory environmental analysis.
15



VI.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR WSIL
The Environmental Management Plan of WSIL is not complex. It consists of certain basic environmental
actions required in the implementation of the three project components concerned, each in response to
potential impacts. The indicative impacts and broad mitigation measures have been discussed in the
previous chapter. Here, first of all, specific measures are proposed designed to strengthen the
environmental assessment process, a process that is applicable to all the three project components.
Even though the impacts of each individual project activity are negligible or minor, the cumulative impact
of project activities combined with extensive similar activities in the past, i.e. irrigation development as a
whole, does have its impacts on the sustained use of natural resources. The Environmental Management
Plan takes this element into consideration. The EMP therefore is not limited to minimizing the negative
impacts; it also proposes a series of positive actions - actions aimed at improving sustainable
management of Tunisia's natural resources. Past actions to improve resource management in irrigation
have in general involved better water management - the conservation of water quantities and quality. In a
more holistic approach, the EMP stresses the fundamental importance of the soil resource base in
sustainable irrigated agriculture, in addition to reliable and adequate water supply, and includes studies
and analyses designed to enhance project environmental benefits.
The WSIL project is not an isolated endeavor of the Tunisian Government. Related activities are being
implemented through projects financed by other Bank projects, such as PISAU, or by other donors such
as KfW and AFD, also under the umbrella of the WSIL. The EMP reflects the experience and approaches
from other donors to some extent.
All EMP measures have been placed in four categories as follows:
1. Investments
2. Studies and analyses
3. Institutional / legal measures
4. Public information measures
Specific investments, studies and analyses, institutional/legal measures, and public information measures
are discussed below.
A. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN THE WATER SECTOR IN GENERAL
An important WSIL contribution to environmental management is the establishment of a National
Information System for Water Resources. The system is designed to meet the needs of both surface water
and ground water management, and is therefore a water sector-wide activity.
SINEAU
The establishment of a National Information System for Water Resources (SINEAU) is an
investment in automated data processing required to better manage the nation's water resources,
both in terms of quantity and in terms of quality. DGRE has the mandate to evaluate the nation's
water resources, to monitor water resource development and water quality, and to provide water
resource information to decision makers and researchers in a viable, modern format (decree N°
16



87-779 of 21/5/1987). This action has been fully integrated into project design and constitutes a
separate, specific element in the Ground Water Management componentl°.
The crucial importance of careful water resource management and the importance of up-to date
information on the water resource base is demonstrated by the data of Figure 7. The different
evaluations of water availability carried out in the past twenty years show that the optimal
evaluation has been attained. In 1995, water use had reached 73% of the total available water
supply.
Figure 7      Water availability and water use in Tunisia'1.
Water resources    Potential water resources In millions m3/year  Water use in  Water use in %
millions        of available
m3/year         water
1977    1980    1985    1990    1995    1995              1995
Surface water     2000    2580    2630    2700    2700    1720               64
Ground water total  1100    1520    1725    1840    1925    1670
Shallow aquifers                                    710      740             104
Deep aquifers                                       1215    930              76
Total 3100    4100    4355    4540    4625    3380               73
B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Studies and analyses are required, first to assess past damage to land and water resources, and then to
ensure their conservation and sustainable management. The EMP includes two studies in soil
management and five in water management. These actions have been fully integrated into project design.
In fact, they constitute a separate, specific project component: Water Resources Conservation and
Environmental Protection.
1. Studies and analyses required in irrigation development - soil resources
There are two studies, or rather assessments, designed to better ensure sustained use of the soil resource
base in irrigation, as follows:
Systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in irrigated areas
The objective of the assessment is to survey and assess the current state of soil salinization in
Tunisia's irrigated lands and to develop a plan of action, both technical and institutional, for the
restoration of saline soils areas and to prevent further salinization in existing perimeters. The
rapid assessment is to be based on the ongoing monitoring program of soil salinity conducted by
the Soils Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture'2.
For details see: DGRE/Dominique Poitrinal. 2000. Systeme d'Information National des Ressources en Eau
11 Dominique Poitrinal. 2000. Systeme d 'Information National des Ressources en Eau
12 Republique Tunisienne. Ministere de l'Agriculture. DS. Suivi de l'evolution de la salinite des sols dans les
perimetres irrigues de Tunisie et cas experimental de l'oasis Nahal (sud Tunisien). Par: A. Mtimet, A. Said, H. Ben
Hassine et Ch. Zidi. Tunis, 1999.
17



* Systematic rapid assessment of other forms of soil degradation due to irrigation
development
The objective of the assessment is to survey and assess the damage done to soil resources in irrigation
development other then soil salinization. In particular attention will be paid to soil degradation, soil loss
and pollution as a result of land leveling, terracing, unprotected excavation and embankment slopes,
construction of irrigation perimneters, access roads, and water storage facilities. The rapid assessment will
develop recommendations to limit unnecessary destruction or pollution of productive lands and design a
concrete investment program to avoid future degradation.
It is recommended that the two rapid assessments be carried out by the Directorate of Soils (DS), MA, in
collaboration with the Ministry of Environment. In view of the requirements of ongoing programs of the
DS, the Directorate should be assisted by technical assistance provided by a consulting firm to carry out
the assessments. Detailed terms of reference for the two assessments will be developed by the DS.
2. Studies and analyses required in irrigation development - water resources
The following five studies are designed to better protect the water resource base in irrigation. The five
studies have all been identified in the National Water Sector Study13 including detailed descriptions
(fiches de projet) of the studies. For ease of reference, these detailed descriptions of these studies are
included here in Annex 6.
*  Development of a National Master Plan for Water Pollution Management
The objective of the national plan is to assess current pollution and to develop plans to minimize
existing pollution and prevent future pollution. For details see National Water Sector Study,
Avant-Projet T5-3.
*  Inventory of potential sources of water pollution
The objective of the inventory is to bring existing inventories up to date and to include a record of
non-point pollution from agriculture sources, and thus to provide a basis for national planning and
monitoring of water pollution. The updating should be based upon the inventories made for
METAP and Tunis - Ouest projects, and include a register of industial pollution prepared by
ONAS, data collected by ANPE, and by DGRE. For details see National Water Sector Study,
Avant-Projet T5-la.
*  Establishment of a national network to monitor and control water quality
The objective of the activity is to ensure better control over the quality of water. It is necessary to
expand the existing monitoring network which is very limited both in terms of national coverage
and with regard to technical possibilities. For details see National Water Sector Study, Avant-
Projet T5-lb.
*  Clarification of the role of Government agencies responsible for management of water
pollution
13 Republique Tunisienne. Ministere de l'Agriculture. DGRE. Etude du secteur de l'eau. Theme 5. Analyse des
problemes de la pollution hydrique. Rapport definitif: Groupement Lahmeyer International - SCET-Tunisie. Tunis,
1998.
18



The objective of the study is to optimize Govemment action in the management of water
pollution. Distinct overlaps as well as gaps exists with regard to institutional responsibility in the
management of water pollution. With rapidly increasing seriousness of the pollution, the national
management responsibilities are becoming in need of overhaul, probably involving refocusing
and realignment of responsibilities. For details see National Water Sector Study, Avant-Projet
T5-1 e.
* Re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and irrigation
The objective of the study is to determine how best to make maximum possible use of available
water in Tunisia. In particular the issue of using treated wastewater instead of somewhat saline
irrigation water in irrigation, on a much larger scale than is currently the case, and analyzing its
effect on soil conservation (preventing soil salinization) requires more attention.
The five water pollution studies required in irrigation development can best be carried out under direction
of the Ministry of Environment, in particular CITET. Clearly, all parties concemed with water pollution
will need to be consulted and form part of the investigations, in particular the Ministries of Agriculture,
Public Health, ONAS and ONADES.
It is recommended that the Ministry of Environment receive the technical support of a consulting firm
specialized in environmental analyses and planning to carry out the studies. Even though draft terms of
reference are available in the National Water Sector Study, these should be reviewed, and final terms for
the five water pollution studies should be prepared by the Ministry of Environment.
A regional environmental assessment of the Medjerda valley is not a part of the EMP of WSIL as it
is beyond the scope of the project in its present form. However, the need for such an assessment to better
protect the resources of the valley is of national importance and it is receommended to consider such an
assessment in a follow-up phase of WSIL, or for financing by KfW, which has been actively involved for
many years in irrigation in the Medjerda valley area. A tentative budget estimate is given in the table
below.
Figure 8     Budget for regional environmental assessment of the Medjerda valley
Budget item       Total in US $
Construction
Equipment
Consultants       300 000
Training/         100 000
Information
Total             400 000
3. Institutional/legal measures required in irrigation development
To improve environmental management in the rehabilitation and construction of irrigated perimeters
certain institutional/legal measures are required to strengthen the environmental assessment process.
These measures are intended to optimize an already well-functioning EA process.
19



For identification and design of irrigation perimeters, MA habitually uses a participatory approach, the
steps of which are prearranged from identification through feasibility analysis to implementation. All
activities, the stakeholders and beneficiaries, the responsibilities of each, and the number and type of
meetings have been established in detail for the whole process (see Annex 7 for information about MA
participatory perimeter planning). Also, already in 1997 and 1998, the Ministry issued standard TOR for
environmental assessment of irrigation projects in general and for projects using treated wastewater in
particular. An overview of how environmental aspects are integrated in irrigation planning and
development is given in the Figure 8 below.
MA thus has the procedures and funding in place to ensure that a summary environmental description or
an environmental impact analysis is carried out for each of the WSIL project activities, usually in
conjunction with the technical feasibility analysis.
To ensure that existing environmental regulations are known and indeed applied at all levels in MA, and
to make certain that the recommended environmental and social measures are implemented, the EMP
recommends two specific institutional strengthening measures.
*  Training of DGGR staff in Environmental and Social Assessment requirements
The objective of the training is to strengthen the awareness and understanding of selected staff of
the DGGR in environmental and social assessment and the national requirements specified by
ANPE to conduct such analyses. Training sessions will address in particular the EA procedures
and responsibilities, public participation in project planning and in project design, and the
dissemination of published EA reports to the public. Selected personnel will be at three
responsibility levels in MA: local level of perimeter management (GIC), regional level (CRDA)
with direct responsibility for environmental analyses, and at the national level with supervisory
and monitoring responsibility (DGGR).
*  Review and updating of environmental clauses in contracts with construction firms and in
concessions with AICs
The objective of the legal measures is to ensure implementation of environmental measures both
during the construction/rehabilitation phase and during the operation phase of a specific project.
by construction firms and by AICs in the operation of perimeters. To this end the environmental
and social clauses in contractual arrangements need to be reviewed and updated to address such
issues as appropriate sanitation at construction sites, awareness creation in relation to STDs, use
of local labor to avoid health and social problems, and others. The review involves the standard
contracts between the Ministry of Agriculture, or its local CRDAs (Commissariat Regional de
Developpement Agricole), and construction firms, and possible revision of the concession
documents between the Ministry and AICs (Associations d'Interet Collectif) to operate irrigated
perimeters.
CITET has indicated its willingness to provide the training and possibly legal services required to carry
out the above proposed measures for MA/DGGR. This can be done as part of its regular program, but a
tailor-made training program would best serve the needs of the MA, both DGGR and DGRE, at all levels.
CITET training program for 20000 is given below and includes water management. CITET is prepared to
provide the MA with a training proposal.
20



Figure 9      Environmental procedures in irrigation management
Key Project Component and   Quantities  Owner       Technical  Environm   Technical  Impact        Technical   Responsibi  Environm
Specific Project Activities             of the      responsibil  ental     responsibil  Analysis   responsibil  lity for El   ental
subproject  ity for    analysis in  ity for    (El) or     ity for El   or DS      monitorin
(promoteu  subproject  site        feasibility   Summary   or DS       implement  g
r)         site        selection    study      Descriptio              ation
selection                          n (DS)
Construction of tube well-based  56     MA,         MA,         YES         Consulting   El > 100    Consulting  AIC       MA,
irrigation perimeters - PI-FOR    perimeters,  DGGR  DGGR                  firm        ha          firm                    DGGR
3,000 ha                                                   DS < 100
ha
Construction of irrigation   8          MA,         MA,         YES         Consulting   El        Consulting  AIC         MA,
perimeters using treated waste   perimeters,  DGGR  DGGR                    firm                    firm                    DGGR
water - PI-EUT              580 ha
Rehabilitation of existing  40          MA,         MA,         NA          Consulting   DS         Consulting   AIC        MA,
irrigation perimeters - PI-FOR    perimeters,  DGGR  DGGR                   firm                    firnm                   DGGR
7,800 ha
Rehab. of existing irrigation  14       MA,         MA,         NA          Consulting   El > 100    Consulting  AIC        MA,
perimneters using hot geothermal perimeters,  DGGR  DGGR                    firm        ha          firm                    DGGR
water - PI-EGT              2,100 ha                                                    DS < 100
ha
Drainage installation on    3,700 ha    MA,         MA,         NA          Consulting  DS          Consulting  AIC         MA,
existing irrigation perimeters          DGGR        DGGR                    firm                    firm                    DGGR
Electrification of pumping  28 stations  MA,        MA,         NA          Consulting  NA          Consulting  AIC         MA,
installations and tube wells            DGGR        DGGR                    firm                    fimn                    DGGR
Creation of watering points   17        MA,         MA,         YES         Consulting   El         Consulting  AIC         MA,
at pastoral routes          watering    DGGR        DGGR                    frrm                    fnr                     DGGR
points
Drilling of production bore   25        MA,         MA,         NA          Consulting   DS         Consulting  AIC         MA,
holes for irrigation and water          DGGR        DGGR                    finn                    firm                    DGGR
supply
.)



4. Public information reiuired in irriation development
To improve environmental management in the rehabilitation and construction of irrigated perimeters
public awareness of the environmental and social assessment process needs to be strengthened. This
measures too, is intended to optimize an already well-functioning EA process.
*  Information and awareness raising of public participation for NGOs/consulting firms
responsible for EAs
The objective of the "awareness" measure is to improve information about environmental and
social analyses to the public in general and to stakeholders in irrigation. Selected NGOs engaged
in and consulting firms responsible for EAs should be instructed of opportunities and/or
responsibilities in this respect and receive additional training were needed.
Figure 10    Summary of CITET training activities in 2000
_.
-~    Sommaire
des activites de formation 2000
Lenvironnement en Tunisie
.101 ': ' '       GCadre insjitutionnel er ligal de a gesion de 1'envimnncmetnt en Tunisie
. 142 0           Aspects jurid ique et institutionnel sur la divers4te biologique
103'              Rcgkrnenarrion en matiere de rscupiation et de recycagc des emballages
104               Sensibilisacion et &ducacion envirnnnennrtales
t 105: :  0       Cadre reglementaire de Ia gestion de I'sau
La gestion des esux
201               Gescion des cmiu: usxes et techniquws d'epuration
202               Assainissement ruma
203               R6utilisarion des eaux ipur6es
204               Traitement des odeurs au nivesu des stations d6purarion
205               Traitcenent des eam seues: les proc6d6s biologipues
-D6:              Traiement des eaux usees les procedes physico-chimiques
2X'  ,07           Valorisation des sous produits de l'cpurarion des eaux
La gestion des dlchets solides
301               Uniris de traitement des d&chers: Conception. exploitation et gestion
302               Centres de tri et de transfet : Conception, exploitatian et gestion
303               Station de compostage: Conception. exploitation et gestion
3034              Gesion des abattmirs et teiajement des dechets solides et liquides
305               Dhchers de tablissenenrs de soins
306    .          Valorisation des dehets urbains
3   f X 07  S .   Recyiage des matiens plbsiques
_                Les Technologies de lenvironnemeoc et l'entreprise
)401  ' 0 :n       Gestion des rejets hvdriques de l'industric agro.alimentaire
42         '      Effluents liquides ct dehets industrieis partie A  [es pmcedes
403               Effluents liquides et dechets industriels partie B: Its traitemncrs
404  Q- tv        Traitement des missionsatmosphciqucs industnelles
405               Gestion des rejees bydriques de l'industrie du textile
22



C. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN GROUNDWATER MANAGEMENT
1. Institutional/legal measures required in groundwater management
To improve environmental management in groundwater management, in particular in the artificial
recharge of aquifers, certain institutional/legal measures are required to strengthen the environmental
assessment process. These measures are intended to optimize an already well-functioning EA process.
MA has the procedures and funding in place to ensure that a summary environmental description or an
environmental impact analysis is carried out for each of the WSIL project activities, usually in
conjunction with the technical feasibility analysis.
To ensure that existing environmental regulations are known and indeed applied at all levels in MA, and
to make certain that the recommended environmental and social measures are implemented, the EMP
recommends two specific institutional strengthening measures.
T Training of DGRE staff in Environmental and Social Assessment requirements
The objective of the training is to strengthen the awareness and understanding of selected staff of
the DGRE in environmental and social assessment and the national requirements specified by
ANPE to conduct such analyses. Training sessions will address in particular the EA procedures
and responsibilities, public participation in project planning and in project design, and the
dissemination of published EA reports to the public. Selected personnel will be at three
responsibility levels in MA: local level of ground water management, regional level (CRDA) with
direct responsibility for environmental analyses, and at the national level with supervisory and
monitoring responsibility (DGRE).
*  Review and updating of environmental clauses in contracts with drilling contractors
The objective of the legal measures is to ensure implementation of environmental measures by
contractors primarily during the construction/rehabilitation phase of a specific project. To this
end the environmental and social clauses in contractual arrangements need to be reviewed and
updated to address such issues as appropriate sanitation at construction sites, awareness creation
in relation to STDs, use of local labor to avoid health and social problems, and others. The
review involves the standard contracts between the Ministry of Agriculture, or its local CRDAs
(Comnmissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole), and contractors.
CITET has indicated its willingness to provide the training and possibly legal services required to carry
out the above proposed measures for MA/DGRE. This can be done as part of its regular program, but a
tailor-made training program would best serve the needs of the MA, both DGRE and DGGR, at all levels.
CITET is prepared to provide the MA with a training proposal.
2. Public information required in groundwater management
To improve environmental management in the rehabilitation and construction of irrigated perimeters
public awareness of the environmental and social assessment process needs to be strengthened. This
measures too, is intended to optimize an already well-functioning EA process.
23



* Information and awareness raising of public participation for NGOs/consulting firms
responsible for EAs
The objective of the "awareness" measure is to improve information about environmental and
social analyses to the public in general and to stakeholders in particular in aquifer recharge
operations. Selected NGOs and consulting firms responsible for EAs should be instructed of their
responsibilities in this respect and receive additional training were needed.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN RURAL WATER SUPPLY
In environmental management of rural water supply only legal measures need to be taken; these can be
achieved in parallel to similar measures for irrigation and ground water development. Legal measures are
required to strengthen the environmental assessment process. MA has the procedures and funding in
place to ensure that a summary environmental description or an environmental impact analysis is carried
out for each of the WSIL project activities, usually in conjunction with the technical feasibility analysis.
* Review and updating of environmental clauses in contracts with contractors
The objective of the legal measures is to ensure implementation of environmental measures by
contractors primarily during the construction/rehabilitation phase of a specific project. To this
end the enviromnental and social clauses in contractual arrangements need to be reviewed and
updated to address such issues as appropriate sanitation at construction sites, awareness creation
in relation to STDs, use of local labor to avoid health and social problems, and others. The
review involves the standard contracts between the Ministry of Agriculture - DGGR, or its local
CRDAs (Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole), and contractors.
CITET has indicated its willingness to provide the training and possibly legal services required to carry
out the above proposed measures for MA/DGGR. This can be done as part of its regular program, but a
tailor-made training program would best serve the needs of the MA, both DGGR and DGRE, at all levels.
24



E. SYNOPSIS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN OF WSIL
Below is a summary of the Sector Environmental Management plan, as discussed in more detail in the
preceding pages.
Figure 11    Synopsis of the Environmental Management Plan of WSIL
WSIL project  Type of        Environmental Action
component    action
Water Sector  Investments    - Establishment of SINEAU
Irrigation     Analyses /    - Systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in irrigated areas
development   studies to     - Systematic rapid assessment of other form of soil degradation due to
protect the soil irrigation development
resource base
Analyses I    - Development of a National Master Plan for Water Pollution Management
studies to    - Inventory of potential sources of water pollution
protect the    - Establishment of a national network to monitor and control water
water         quality
resource base   - Clarification of the role of Government agencies responsible for
management of water pollution
- Re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and irrigation
Institutional /  - Training of DGGR staff in Environmental and Social Assessment
legal measures requirements
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts with
construction firms and in concessions with AICs
Education and  - Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public awareness of
public        environmental concerns and public participation in EAs
information
Groundwater  Institutional I  - Training of DGRE staff in Environmental and Social Assessment
management  legal measures requirements
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts with
construction firms and in concessions with AICs
Education and  - Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public awareness of
public        environmental concerns and public participation in EAs
information
Rural water   Institutional I  - Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts with
supply        legal measures construction firns and in concessions with AICs
25



VII. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN OF WSIL
Implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan described above will be under the
overall institutional responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. Funding for the Plan is integrated in the
WSIL roject. Regular monitoring of the Plan will be assured by the Government and by the Bank, jointly.
The institutional, financial, and monitoring aspects of the ESMP are discussed below.
A. INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR EMP IMPLEMENTATION
Overall responsibility for implementation of the EMP of WSIL rests with the Ministry of Agriculture.
Specific responsibility is with the specialized departments and agencies of the Ministry and with other
agencies.
Figure 12    Institutional responsibility for implementation of the EMP of WSIL
WSIL project Environmental Action                                      Institutional
component                                                              responsibility
Water Sector  - Establishment of SINEAU                                MA- DGRE
Irrigation     - Systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in irrigated    MA- DSols
development   areas
- Systematic rapid assessment of other form of soil degradation  MA- DSols
due to irrigation development
- Development of a National Master Plan for Water Pollution  MA / MEAT - CITET
Management
- Inventory of potential sources of water pollution     MEAT - CITET
- Establishment of a national network to monitor and control    MEAT - CITET
water quality
- Clarification of the role of Government agencies responsible   MEAT - CITET
for management of water pollution
- Re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and irrigation  MEAT - CITET
- Training of DGGR staff in Environmental and Social    MA
Assessment requirements
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts with  MA
construction firms and in concessions with AICs
- Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public  MA
awareness of and participation in EAs
Groundwater  - Training of DGRE staff in Environmental and Social      MA
management  Assessment requirements
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts with  MA
construction firms and in concessions with AICs
- Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public  MA
awareness of and participation in EAs
Rural water   - Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts with  MA
supply        construction firms and in concessions with AICs
26



B. INTEGRATION OF EMP INTO PROJECT DESIGN
It is essential that the ESMP is integrated into project design. This will ensure that the project reflects the
environmental and socio-economic interdependence of the target rural communities. The table below
indicates that the proposed actions have been included in the project, and specifically shows in which
component of the project the measures will be implemented,
Figure 13    Integration of the EMP into the project
Environmental Action                               Integrated in project component:
- Establishment of SINEAU                          Pc 2 - Groundwater management
- Systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
irrigated areas
- Systematic rapid assessment of other form of soil  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
degradation due to irrigation development
- Development of a National Master Plan for Water  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
Pollution Management
- Inventory of potential sources of water pollution  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
- Establishment of a national network to monitor and  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
control water quality
- Clarification of the role of Government agencies  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
responsible for management of water pollution
- Re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and  Pc 3 - Resource/environmental protection
irrigation
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts  Pc 5 -Institutional strengthening
with construction firms and in concessions with AICs
- Training of DGGR/DGRE staff in Environmental and  Pc 5 -Institutional strengthening
Social Assessment requirements
- Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public    Pc 5 -Institutional strengthening
awareness of and participation in EAs
27



C. COST ESTIMATE OF EMP
An estimate of the costs needed to implement ESMP activities is given below. Overall costs are given in
the summary table below; this is followed by detailed cost estimates per environmental action and per
year.
Figure 14    Cost of the EMP of WSIL
WSIL project Environmental Action                                   Total cost in US $
component
Water Sector  - Establishment of SINEAU                                650,000
Irrigation    - Systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in irrigated   1,200,000
development   areas
- Systematic rapid assessment of other forms of soil    800,000
degradation due to irrigation development
- Development of a National Master Plan for Water Pollution  600,000
Management
- Inventory of potential sources of water pollution     350,000
- Establishment of a national network to monitor and control  950,000
water quality
- Clarification of the role of Government agencies      400,000
responsible for management of water pollution
- Re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and  500,000
irrigation
- Training of DGGR staff in Environmental and Social     85,000
Assessment requirements
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts  40,000
with construction firms and in concessions with AICs
- Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public   40,000
awareness of and participation in EAs
Groundwater  - Training of DGRE staff in Environmental and Social       85,000
management  Assessment requirements
- Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts  40,000
with construction firms and in concessions with AICs
- Education of NGOs/consulting firms to improve public   35,000
awareness of and participation in EAs
Rural water   - Review and update of environmental clauses in contracts  40,000
supply        with construction firms and in concessions with AICs
Total estimated cost                                    5,815,000
28



A detailed budget of each of the specific actions follows below.
SINEAU
For budget details on SINEAU reference is made to: DGRE/Dominique Poitrinal. 2000. Systeme d'Information
National des Ressources en Eau.
Analyses / studies to protect the soil resource base in irrigation
Figure 15    Budget for systematic rapid assessment of soil salinization in irrigated areas
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       Total
Construction    0            0           0            200 000     200 000         400 000
Equipment       100 000      100 000      50 000                                  250 000
Consultants     200 000      100 000      50 000       50 000      50 000         450 000
Training/        20 000       20 000      20 000       20 000      20 000          100 000
Information
Total           320 000      220 000     120 000      270 000     270 000        1 200 000
Figure 16    Budget for systematic rapid assessment of other forms of soil degradation
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       Total
Construction    0            0           0            100 000     100 000      200 000
Equipment        50 000       50 000      50 000                               150 000
Consultants     100 000      100 000      50 000       50 000                  300 000
Training/        20 000       20 000      50 000       S0 000       10 000     150 000
Information
Total           170 000      170 000     150 000      200 000      110 000     800000
29



Analyses / studies to protect the water resource base in irrigation
Figure 17    Budget for a National Master Plan for Water Pollution Management
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction
Equipment
Consultants     200 000     200 000      100 000                              500 000
Training/                    50 000      50 000                               100 000
Information
Total           200 000      250 000     150 000                              600 000
Figure 18    Budget for inventory of sources of water pollution
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction    0           0
Equipment        50 000       50 000                                          100 000
Consultants     100 000      100 000               _            _             200 000
Training/        25 000       25 000                                           50 000
Information
Total           175 000      175 000    I_350 000
Figure 19    Budget for establishment of a national network to monitor water quality
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction    0            0           0            100 000     100 000     200 000
Equipment       100 000      200 000     100 000       50 000     50 000      500 000
Consultants      50 000       50 000      50 000      50 000                  200 000
Formation /      25 000       25 000                                            50 000
Information
Total           175 000      275 000     150 000     200 000      150 000     950 000
30



Figure 20    Budget for role of Government agencies responsible for management of
water pollution
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction    .
Equipment
Consultants     100 000      100 000                                          200 000
Training/       100 000      100 000                                          200 000
Information
Total           200 000      200 000    I                                     400 000
Figure 21    Budget for re-use of treated waste water in aquifer recharge and irrigation
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction    0           0            0
Equipment        50 000       50 000                                          100 000
Consultants      50 000       50 000      50 000                              150 000
Training/       100 000      100 000      50 000                              250 000
Information
Total           200 000      200 000     100 000                              Soo5000
31



Institutional / legal measures and education and public information
Figure 22    Budget for training of DGGR/DGRE staff in Environmental and Social
Assessment
Estimate in US $
Ligne budget    Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction
Equipment
Consultants     20 000                                                             20 000
Training/       50 000       50 000      50 000                                   150 000
Information
Total           70 000       50 000      50 000                                   170 000
Figure 23    Budget for review and update of environmental clauses in contracts
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction
Equipment
Consultants     50 000       30 000                                           80 000
Training/       20 000       20 000                                           40 000
Information
Total           70 000       50 000               _                           120 000
Figure 24    Budget to improve public awareness of and participation in EAs
Estimate in US $
Budget item     Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
Construction
Equipment
Consultants      10 000      10 000       10 000                                   30 000
Training/        15 000      15 000       15 000                                   45 000
Information
Total           25 000       25 000      25 000     I            I                 75 000
32



D. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING OF EMP
Recommandations for a prompt startup of EMP operations.
It is imperative that the EMP, as presented above, is effectively implemented from the very beginming of
the WSIL project. Certain tasks need to be carried out rather promptly. These tasks are as follows:
* Review and update of environmental clauses in the contracts with construction firms and in
concession documents with AICs,
*  Prepare or update terms of reference and technical descriptions for the studies, institutional
measures, and training programs, indicated in the EMP.
These tasks need to be carried out by the MA Directorates concerned, in collaboration with ANPE, the
National Environmental Protection Agency, and, where necessary, supported by national and/or
international consultants to speed up the process.
Environmental Monitoring
To ensure effectiveness, the implementation arrangements have been kept flexible and straightforward,
with feedback mechanisms through which stakeholders are informed and can in turn contribute to the
analysis and decision-making process. This applies in particular to the improved environmental
assessment process. The relatively uncomplicated implementation arrangements greatly facilitate
environmental monitoring.
The critical environmental outputs projects that need to be monitiered are the specific environmental
analyses that will be conducted under supervision of the MA, the project sponsor.
There is no further need to identify explicit environmental and social indicators in order to monitor and
benchmark specific achievements.
A participatory monitoring and evaluation framework needs to be established and adequate resources
earmarked accordingly.
The implementation of all project activities is subject to Tunisia's national environmental legislation and
the scrutiny of ANPE, its National Environmental Protection Agency. The monitoring of the
implementation of the SEA Environmental Management Plan will be carried out during project
supervision, and will be presented as part of the annual implementation report to be submitted by the
Government to the Bank.
33



I



ANNEXES
Annex 01    Abbreviations
Annex 02    Bibliography
Annex 03    Persons consulted
Annex 04    Mandate of the Ministry of Environment and Land Use Planning
Annex 05    ANPE - Decree 91-362 regulating EAs
Annex 06    Draft TORs for water resource studies
Annex 07    Min. of Agriculture participatory perimeter planning
34



I



SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 01. ABREVIATIONS
AFD          Agence Francaise de Developpement
AIC          Association d'Interet Collectif ou Association d'usagers d'eau
ANPE         Agence Nationale de Protection de l'Environnement
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CITET        Centre International des Technologies de l'Environnement de Tunis
CNEA         Centre National d'Etudes Agricoles
CRDA         Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole
DCES         Direction de la Conservation des Eaux et des Sols
DGFE         Direction Generale du Financement et des Encouragements
DGGR         Direction Generale du Genie Rural
DGPA         Direction Generale de la Production Agricole
DGRE         Direction Generale des Ressources en Eau
DS           Direction des Sols
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MA           Ministere de l'Agriculture
MEAT         Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Amenagement du territoire
ONAS         Office National de l'Assainissement
PGE          Plan de Gestion Environnemental
PNAE         Plan National d'Action Environnemental
UE           Union Europeenne
UICN         Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WWF          World Wildlife Fund
Annex 01 - 1



I



SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 02.  BIBLIOGRAPHY
Editeur                      Titre                                     Ville de    Date
publication
Banque Mondiale              Tunisie. Pret d'Investissement au Secteur  Washington  1997
Agricole - Relais. Document d'Evaluation de
Projet.
Banque Mondiale.             Tunisie: Environment Mission. BTO report  Washington  1998
Sherif Arif, Jaafar Friaa                                                            _
Banque Mondiale.             Tunisia: WSIL, Pre-Appraisal Mission,     Washington  1999
Madani M. Tall               November
Republique Tunisienne.       Pret aux investissements du secteur de l'eau -    Tunis  1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture / DG   PISEAU. Document de projet pour la mission
Financement et des           de preparation (BIRD-KFW).
Encouragements               Elaboree par Laajili Khaled
Republique Tunisienne.       Atlas des sols tunisiens.                 Tunis       1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  Par: A. Mtimet
R6publique Tunisienne.       Etude diagnostic et de modemisation de    Tunis       2000
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  l'exploitation des perimetres irrigues dans le
CRDA de Sousse               Gouvernorat de Sousse. COMETE Engineering
Republique Tunisienne.       Projet d'Amelioration de gestion du secteur  Sousse    1996
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  irrigue (Phase II). Remise en etat des reseaux
CRDA de Sousse. D/HER-A/PI  d'irrigation (perimetre de Sidi Bou Ali).
Par: G.M. Salah
Republique Tunisienne.       Assistance technique aux Associations d'int6ret  Tunis  1998
Ministere de I'Agriculture.  collectif d'irrigation et d'alimentation en eau
DGGR                         potable rural. Dossier de consultation
Republique Tunisienne.       Etude du secteur de l'eau. Orientations   Tunis        1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  strategiques du secteur de l'eau. Rapport
DGRE                         definitif. Groupement Bechtel International -
SCET-Tunisie
Republique Tunisienne.       Etude du secteur de l'eau. Theme 5. Analyse    Tunis   1998
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  des problemes de la pollution hydrique. Rapport
DGRE                         definitif. Groupement Lahmeyer International -
SCET-Tunisie
Republique Tunisienne.       Suivi de l'evolution de la salinite des sols dans   Tunis  1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture. DS.  les perimetres irrigues de Tunisie et cas
experimental de l'oasis Nahal (sud Tunisien).
Par: A. Mtimet, A. Said, H. Ben Hassine et Ch.
Zidi
Republique Tunisienne.       Cr6ation d'un p6rimtre irrigu6 i partir des eaux  Tunis  1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  usees epur6es de la ville de Tataouine. Etude
CRDA de Tataouine            pedologique.
Annex 02 - 1



Republique Tunisienne.       Notice d'impact sur 1'environnement de la  Tunis       1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  creation d'un perimetre irrigue a partir des eaux
CRDA de Tataouine            usees epurees de la ville de Tataouine
Republique Tunisienne.       Etude d'impact environnemental de la station de  Tunis  1999
Ministere de l'Agriculture.  Semana (Delegation Kef Ouest)
CRDA du Kef
Republique Tunisienne.       Formation 2000                             Tunis       1999
Ministere de l'Environnement et
de l'Amenagement du Territoire.
CITET
Republique Tunisienne.       Rapport national. L'etat de l'environnement.    Tunis  1999
Ministere de l'Environnement et 1998.
de l'Amenagement du Territoire 
USAID                        Biological Diversity and Tropical Forests in  Washington  1988
Scott D. Posner              Tunisia
World Bank                   Environmental Assessment Sourcebook.      Washington  1993
UPDATE. Sectoral Environmental Assessment
World Bank                   Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. Vol. I.  Washington  1991
Policies, Procedures, and Cross-Sectoral Issues.
Technical Paper 139
World Bank                   Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. Vol. 1. Washington  1991
Irrigation. Technical Paper 140
World Bank                   Safeguard Policies. OP 4.01. Environmental    Washington  1999
Assessment
Annex 02 - 2



SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 03. PERSONS CONSULTED
Organization / Organisation   Town / Ville           Agency /            First name/    Family name /    Tel. (216)           E-mail
Service / Fonction        Prenom       Nom de famille
Bureau d'etudes, SCET -     Tunis          Directeur, Dept. Environnement  Nejib       SAADOUN             1 799 812   deha@scet.tunisie.com.tn
Tunisie                                    Hydraulique et Agriculture
Bureau d'etudes, Societe    Sfax           Directeur                                                      4 296 331
Hydro Plante
Min. de l'Agriculture       Jemmal         Chef CTV, Jemmal               Ahmed        ALI                4 860 35
Min. de l'Agriculture       Monastir       Chef de l'Arrondissement du    Ahmed        HASSINE             4 610 80
Genie Rural de Monastir
Min. de r'Agriculture       Monastir       Directeur General CRDA         Hamadi       KHELIFA
Monastir 5000                                                 _____-
Min. de I'Agriculture       Sousse         CRDA Sousse Arrondissement   Sidi           BEN ALI
PI, Chef Cellule territorial de
vulgarisation_
Min. de lAgriculture         Sousse        CRDA Sousse, Arrondissement   Glaied        SALAH
PI, Chef service maintenance  Mohamed
Min. de l'Agriculture        Sousse        CRDA Sousse, Chef              Ayoub        TAREK
Airrondissement PI
Min. de I'Agriculture       Tunis          Directeur des Sols             Dr. Amor    MTIMET               700 940
Min. de I'Agriculture        Tunis         Directeur Gen6ral des                       EL BATHI
Ressources en Eau
Min. de l'Agriculture        Tunis         Directeur General du Genie                  HAMDANE
Rural
Min. de l'Agriculture        Tunis         Direction des Sols             A            SAIED
Min. de l'Agriculture        Tunis         Direction des Sols, Chef du    H.           BEN HASSINE
Laboratoire
Min. de l'Agriculture        Tunis         Direction General des                       KHANFIR
Ressources en Eau
Min. de l'Agriculture        Tunis         Direction General des                       SEHLI
Ressources en Eau
Annex 03 - 1



Min. de l'Agriculture      Tunis         Direction General du Genie    Mme Najeb   GHARBI              4 781 756
Rural                                                        _____
Min. de l'Agriculture      Tunis         Direction General du Genie    Hedi         HERZI
Rural
Min. de rAgriculture       Tunis         Direction General du Genie    Taoufik      BRAHAM             288 071
Rural, Chef de Service des
Associations d'Intert Collectif
Min. de l'Agriculture      Tunis         Direction General, FE         Khaled       LAAJILI
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis     Agence Nationale de Protection   Mohamed    GHOURABI          1 847 122
rAmnnagement du Territoire               de lrEnvironnement, Chef Dept
Technique, Directeur des EIE
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis     Agence Nationale de Protection   Habiba    OUESLATI           1 847 122
I'Amenagement du Territoire              de l'Environnement, Direction
des EIE l                                                  _            _-
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis     Centre International des      Mme Dr.    JRAD FANTAR          1 770 285  labo@citet.nat.tn
I'Amenagement du Territoire              Technologies de               Amel
I'Environnement de Tunis
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis     Directeur de la Conservation de   Mlme Zeineb  BELKHIR        1 703 394
I'Amenagement du Territoire              la Nature et du Milieu Rural
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis     Direction de la Conservation de            BELHASSINE         1 703 394
l'Amenagement du Territoire              la Nature et du Milieu Rural
Min. de rEnvironnement et de  Tunis      Direction de la Conservation de   Mohamed    ISMAIL           1 703 394  boc.meat@rdd.tn
I'Amenagement du Territoire              la Nature et du Milieu Rural
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis      Office National                           DAOUD
I'Amenagement du Territoire              d'Assainissement, Directeur des
Etudes
Min. de l'Environnement et de  Tunis      Office National              Naassaoui    ESSAIED
I'Amenagement du Territoire               d'Assainissement, Direction des
Etudes
Partenaire financier, Banque    Tunis     Sr. Enviromnentalist, ESD    Vasantt      JOGOO                         vjogoo@afdb.org
Africaine de Developpement
Partenaire financier, Banque    Washington    Economist, MENAR         Shobha       SHETTI             202 473    sshetti@worldbank.org
Mondiale                                                                                               2760
Partenaire financier, Banque    Washington    Sr. Economist, Task Manager    Madani M.   TALL          202 473    mtall@worldbank.org
Mondiale                                                                                               7506
Partenaire financier, Banque    Washington    Sr. Environmentalist, MENAR    Allen  ROTMAN                        arotman@worldbank.org
Mondiale
Partenaire financier,       Frankfurt am   Charge de projets, Maghreb  Piet         Kleffmann                     Piet.kleffmann@kfw.de
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau  Main                                                                  .
Annex 03 - 9



SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 04.  MANDATE OF THE MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
AND LAND USE PLANNING
EXTRAIT DU DECRET No 93-303 DU le FEVRIER 1993 FLXANT LES ATTRIBUTIONS DU
MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT ET DE L'AMENAGEMENT DU TERRITOIRE.
Art. 1.
Le ministere de l'environnement et de l'amenagement du territoire est charge de proposer en collaboration
avec les ministeres et organismes concernes, la politique de l'Etat dans le domaine de la protection de
l'environnement et de la nature, de l'amelioration du cadre de vie et de l'amenagement du territoire et de
veiller a sa mise en ceuvre.
11 est charge de promouvoir la legislation en matiere de protection de l'environnement et de conservation
de la nature et de l'amenagement du territoire par des mesures a caractere general ou particulier et en
prescrivant des normes d'equilibre dans le milieu naturel.
Le ministere de 1tenvironnement et de l'amenagement du territoire est charg6 aussi de la conservation et
de l'amelioration de la qualite de l'environnement en general et du cadre de vie, de la prevention, la
reduction ou la suppression des risques qui menacent l'Homme, la flore et la faune et tous les elements de
1'environnement air, eau et sol, de preserver et developper les espaces libres necessaires au
developpement des generations futures et les Espaces permettant le developpement des especes sauvages
et des paysages naturels.
Art. 2.
En matiere d'environnement et de protection de la nature, le ministere de l'environnement et de
l'amenagement du territoire est charge notamment de: Veiller a inscrire l'element environnement et
integrer les preoccupations environnementales dans les plans de developpement economiques et social.
Animer et coordonner les actions de l'Etat dans le domaine de la protection de l'environnement et de la
conservation de la nature y compris les actions de controle, de prevention, de reduction ou de suppression
de la pollution et des nuisances et de tous les risques touchant 1'environnement qu&ils resultent des
particuliers ou qu'ils proviennent des grands ensembles ou des equipements collectifs ou des activites
agricoles, commerciales ou industrielles.
Elaborer en collaboration avec les ministeres et les organismes concernes les normes de rejet des dechets
et des emissions provenant des activites industrielles, urbaines, agricoles, touristiques, de l'energie, du
transport et des autres activites et de veiller a leur mise en ceuvre.
Agreer les investissements dans les projets qui participent a la lutte contre la pollution et a la protection de
l'environnement, encourager leur developpement et veiller a leur execution.
Promouvoir toutes actions de sensibilisation d'etude et de recherche en matiere de lutte contre la pollution
et de protection de l'environnement et de la nature en collaboration avec les organismes et les associations
concern6es.
Annex 04 - 1



Coordonner entre les programmes nationaux et intemationaux de lutte contre la pollution et de protection
de 1tenvironmement.
Veiller a l'application des engagements internationaux en mati&e de lutte contre la pollution et de
protection de 1tenvironnement.
Representer le gouvemement tunisien aupres des instances internationales et aux reunions bilaterales et
multilaterales ayant pour objet la protection de l'environnement et de la nature et ce en collaboration avec
les departements ministeriels concemrs.
Elaborer un plan national d'intervention urgente en vue de garantir une intervention rapide en cas
d'accident de pollution ou de risques majeurs qui menacent l'equilibre environnemental et veiller a sa mise
en ceuvre en collaboration avec les ministeres concemrs.
Promouvoir en collaboration avec les departements ministeriels et organismes concernes toutes actions et
recherches a caractere scientifique, technique ou economique ayant pour objet l'amelioration des
techniques de protection de l'environnement et de preservation du cadre naturel et de lutte contre la
pollution.
Le ministere de l'environnement et de l'amenagement du territoire exerce la tutelle sur les etablissements
publics qui en relevent et sur les associations dont l'objet releve des attributions du ministere et foumit
dans le cadre de moyens disponibles tout appui, aide et encouragement a l'action associative dans le
domaine de la protection de l'environnement.
Art. 3.
Les administrations et les etablissements publics pretent leur concours aux services competents du
ministere de l'environnement et de l'amenagement du territoire pour l'accomplissement de leur missions
de prevention des risques et de lutte contre la pollution et les nuisances. Ils leur communiquent toutes
informations sur leurs activit6s en matiere de recherche, de controle et de prevention des risques dans les
domaines de leur comp6tence. Le ministre de l'environnement et de l'amenagement du territoire est
informe sur les activites programmees et les moyens qui leur sont affectes.
Le ministre de l'environnement et de l'amenagement du territoire est charge de prendre toutes mesures de
coordination de nature a ameliorer la qualit6 et l'efficacite de l'action de l'Etat dans les domaines sus-vises
ainsi que celles qui peuvent etre necessaires a l'inforTnation du public.
Art. 4.
En matiere d'amenagement du territoire et dans le cadre de la conception et de la mise en cmuvre de la
politique nationale dans ce domaine, le ministere est appele a mettre en forme une gestion plus rationnelle
du territoire et a reunir les conditions favorables a la realisation d'un developpement durable.
Annex 04 - 2



SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 05. ANPE - DECREE 91-362 REGRULATING EAs
Annex 05 - 1



I
I                                            I



MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT ET DE L'AMENAGEMENT DU TERRITOIRE
AGENCE NATIONALE DE PROTECTION DE I'ENVIRONNEMENT
L'etude dimpact est exigee en vue de lobtention de toute autorisation administrative pour la r6alisation dune
unite industrielle, agricole ou commerciale dont l'acffvit6 peut 6tre g6neratrice de pollution ou de degradation
de lenvironnement. Le present d6cret .N*91-362  du 13 mars 1991 regJemente les proc6dures d¶6laboration et
d'approbation des etudes dimpact.
Aatide pm¶*r.-miesdsutcMik*WTITISSA                      ~2 ue   w     do ra*  Met du s  e doe am erwtmeiwt na
111     j Ntisin,patatr~tmnctrrin   subs4ldrnertsiesremmurces
1) Ethde drt c  tl doxwwt e6g en we de lobitftcn de kdo amlis      nfihea  s         kefeaespareprodtur
adtr       dwAs bim           ag*cies cxi OcIUTS  8  penneft           3 ii wrae d- waiqenoesibles dpctes eTdEl    du Pr* dlz
caprk, d*dlwua de mouerbs d!ts decS de i Ke   A c3 xzo no a d        o xfawkwurt i t en p;       subs et p      es  bswmsc etdl    K
bngdeeces   ie s6wLttL*d2delabi8                                     ne  l es kSt* blgwes, be cacke de vao di 1w%, or n?)rm et b
91 es dmieet Jee28Ob ldn8B-2Do 13dsu  1 1$a v artreedocxde           sWatM pique de sr bl cmTaf du  isnge, de ccJs6       es des bts,
faeoo'.                               ~rCxu  xi, &rskmtiseslares;
4) bs rsixs de be).     is btiques du dck du prhsl d   que bes
Z Ur*A bAat isn afut aCu    w oAMe 'rbd, agricoe   cu rvnril dort  pCs  a o*p a        b  miem*e db   aMou   pdIkee, n,e temdes
fadi pe begg eep onuoermrweri                                        p0lccptesdbido cti;wwwt,
5) bls mfz  enr5age pe b nske de kuge Cu is pdinode patr
3)k *edo oLa  cup6atem      pe rnephySkfACUiiK   at                siphe, rduke etl s posstie 1corpa    le cnus4quences dmuabgc ls du
dune denrinde dawkdebo   cncwt un pi*  pk cui aJk16   Fdque                                               dpxrtsomrA qeIeiond sd em escp
hii edup *rdLuSi
Ledcaddessumuweaupmstwtieestwyfacfansun calt
4qAisstxn Is dds&n da tuar ciu des auls carpdartesc,i dowle b      descugesborlipartAgeraNdnsde, Prdonde rErg           t
dxaimaukedeoLxMseou aupWbseisdeorid ftrurA                             Lie ta do b rb*aldion dhde soa bt clasgo di Rate do kuvage cu du
Art 2-C'aAot ou b amits currip0entes dcssus rases no peuwt
dcrLm ipxsabrnpritmarwindebru qd smrkcxaivtlhqAtrAqnce                 AztlO.-L &de dktrt ox  Fsaic riert do te datre    pr Ia ne do
Na$,ue do Pntctiondse ntne,rtrestppose psAsa.I6isab                  twe cw u b p8le ibp esn enis etmein s apfrs do rAgiNat NiunIl de
Ler nuederwceaeulwap            oo rapseu serlexrvairduneauto n     P
ac1rrea nocm*rfaeirneAxs krn. c                                      a irdansrauo rbt uirideolnt bi du prcL-
Lauzisti do rndeon cl         act unS se  i f&,ie  cr,
ccofcxit oax pF   cxu de ce da4  dok coxorter pf  sas visa          ArUl-Lctsque s p* swmti idbmt pUatwune efltswrun pm
rena ttledspectdspJesciesdaUeodede*ir nrial ouune autre ate spEb:nwt pd4g6o, rAgwU  Nlabe do Pnntbi de
fEihumrmt fam le bsnss r ou ratA acnirwhih do cebl am do ia
ArU.-4s dbes  rqietp   ri-es p  Is  ert dad sMt r6es                oe tpAderesiO ecededctirnp
pr~at~Isnwt ALs aelft adrrwislonr ede pb Ir sation cbl de Ii          Le ocuuat  au fakdif adkndkltve mspc     do  m s ieke wcn aes
ie.f                                                               A fAgence Nabtdle de Pntci do M?Awvwrwt dwr   un dcM msmun  dun
mosAcrrrdesaconrssanoedeoethpat,
NW-Sort        ciaire   scur. a M r,I de edV bei pcids duxs          A reqiabn do ce dIk fAgec Ndbm  do PnRAncxi do VErmrenut pet
&uii6s A fanm  I kop*tdu ckt                                         cxnrce          n         a ctiFd   senrde            r
Arn&-Chefq         sq   dm pdun*eyt L nien aec bsesdramres pr*us     A¢12.-L'Agence a Nal de PcdoP    de drtnTiart dspose dwn dibl do
par reus 2 du p*st  d6a  rautiA hkd*te t dcm rakisdlx dot Ae         3M0Acotrrdo Ieddedb rlMonepI do rdodernd potn rntersa dason
du mi'se do r g ciu du pa   euode dsli  saiuina du cit pe            d dcson apprtiodu p
m     e*nwt be les kiddws 6tier   do cb ehid ax re mnieit de be
ns is d       saem es r c4p on pr*6  sa        ax pr utirn             A feqiaton do ce dMia le p*d ea  c     I ccne  n"rnes do
derNkGnnTrt en VUe dcbs b iur1&  A tAgen  Naliadbe dc Pind do        p    ree   nde rerw*nenL
rErAmmert
A,t13-Nonobs      tes nti p     pes ,lpaI onsen       r
ArtS.-Dans un d6ki ne dessat pas 2D pS A corror de Is n*epicn      sa r ir6e au cas OLd   Pr6,dures nerbws  ndam rdtue  dkp   pe
effcble do la descbrip cindesus mmrts&e tAgewe Nwmale do Pdcbk       paernmaledefurw   ouapAsbwi orntpasdrespec6es,
do ErEmaywnert dot asub  le dApost sidt de son apptdlicx du prcjet sot do
te     do bs priSion dure etucb dedit vetab e   une ccpi cd sa         ArtL-Les depostx  cku pint d6cl* sVappk,rt ax u#s indsries,
dA iifaul*conscmi                                                    asgrcc u cxarmcnneswmes
A rep,afon du cdi pnwu d en cds de    deo rAgene, lb pqd est
i*a*moeamKctt 6iseaidoncber~~uwwnui                                                                                        Oedan ilx Oneida ate   uL *AeIci,sap asttodteasbat on
A l ae dare*e en vmjr du ptert d6cret CIU tute hiobn  etIfA  qti fait
k7,-Est sa.rne ax 4Fp-r,  do pisert dkx  bAs hxle    icatd dndodedensin, de t               n o cbo swmgaudt do ses pocbes     s de
as iele au  m        d dun pAtj ci edat                                   b  entrrt des miia depoin cu de dadtio ido rem,emnw
Sort depensft do la pncb ka do tAude brpd be bas%  de*bien et do
gmsnseo pa, udquosaoentbsaqueles   seeso rqptt                         AaLl-Le PrerriernWle d be t airniconxrs snst ort   S gcImcun en
e q i  corayne, dore  xon du piest dcadl QJsa ± M a Jou i   OIi 
ArUJ-6I fat  ab a d6i         A datisn consied  Cqu b  prodped p cb o IPsR   quuer1
wa des ca*s n6ga6es at rfwmwurt mima en raexee do len
asi  bes da ax es   cMes dde     ss db pd ele peti U appg  t bs
dptonsdefartcl5du piswtM C
Adt$-4Ae corter do fduds dmrts do uekft rnideo p*Abb de runit
sur re ntdc         orrx reeaunftnubs6erbsu
1) b desactrin diieu doprdLd:,
Annex 05 - 2



ANNEXE I                                                               ANNEXE II
Unitis visies A rarUcle 4 paragraphe I                                  Unitis vIs6es A I'artice 6
11) Etabllssements dangereux insalibres ou incommodes des deou          1)  Agriculture
premlires catdigores tels quo classas par la nomerclaiture visee i    a-    Proots d'hydraulqtue agricole
'uatiok 295 de la oJ n66-27 du 30 avrl 19S. portt code du travall     b-    Explobtion pouvant bitrer desvolaies
2) Raffineries de ptrole brut et Installations de gazeification et de     C-    ExpItatons pouvant aiter des porcs
Ilqufction dau morns  00 tones de charbon ou de schstes              c-    instaltons d'aquacut
ftnineuxt parpu jowe-    RicupiratWons de ternitore sur la mer
3) Centrales therrmiques et autres installtons de combustion d'une      1)  Industrie ractthe
puissance cabrihque dlau moins 30OMW.a- Foragesaun profonduOr A Iexcept,on des forages pour etudier la
puissance caloilfique d'au moms 3CX mi.quaftA des asol et nxtamrnnt:
4)  st3 latons destinies a stocker ou a eirniner lWs dechels quels que         - tes forages giolterniques;
solent Ia nature et le pro6cr di'lirniation de ceux-cl                     - ls forages pour le stookage des d6chets:
5) Instfons destnhes  e fahbrication du cirnent.                               - lWs forages pour F'approvisionnement en eeu;
ti- Extraction dans des exliations souterrainas do ressorme
6) installations de fabriaton de produts chimiques, de pesticides, de        mineralessu
produits phanrnaceutiques. de peintures et de vemis, d1lastloirea     c- Cokeries (distiation skhedu charbon)
at de peroxydes                                                     3) industrie de r4nergie;
7) Instaltions sidirurgiques t installations de production des mitaux     a- Irstallations industielles destinees A la production d'energbe
non ferreux                                                              ilectrique, de vapeur et d'eau chaude (autros quo cellos vis6es a
8) Unrte dcexporation et dredraction du petrole et du gaz naturel.           ranrnexe 1)
9) Extraction a ceie oweort do rossources minerales et ies carrieres.    b- InstallatiDns Industrheles destinies au transport de gaz de vapeur
10) ProJets de remembrement rural.                                       deau chaude, transport dinergie 6loctrique par 0ignes aeriennes
11) Op6ratWons de reboisement dcunesuperfncie supeideure a 100 ha.       c- Stockage ainien de gaz naturel
d- Stocbkge de gaz combustble on riservoirs soLuerrains
12) DirOwhenents et proJets daffectation de terres hnultes ou            e- Stockage de gaz cmbusbles fossiles
ddtendues seml-naturelies A lexplitation agidole Intensive drune      f- Agglom6ratlon bIkdstriek de houilb et de lignite
superfleaupeileureia 1AO ha                                           g- Instalbtions destinies A la production crinergie hvdroelectriqus
13) Sucrerles.                                                          4) Traval des mtaux
14) Unk6s de fabrication do pate A paper, de papier et de carton         a- Emooutissago, dicoupage de grosses pieces
b- Traltement de surface et revitement des metaux
15) Unites de production et de traltement de cellulose                   c  Chaudronerie. construction de riservoiws et d'autres pieces de
16) Unites de tanneries et de m4igssere                                      ptomoerie
d- ConStruction at assemblage do vihiculas automoile)s et
17) Construction de voles pour le trafic des chemns de fer, dautoroute       construction d moteurs pour ceu vei
ainsi quo daeroports dont la piste de decollage t d'atterrTssage a    e- Chantiers navels
une bn,queur de 211ao mitres oU plus.                                 f-  InstallatiOns pour la construction t l reparation draironefs
18) Pod de commerce, de peche et do plalsance.                           g- Construction de materiel ferroviare
19) Travaux craminagement de zones industrTiels.                         h- Emboutissage de fond par expbsftt
!- installatin do cackhation et de frittage de minerals metalTiques
20) Travux cfamina9ement urbain.                                        5) Fabrication du verre
21) Ouvrages de canalisatin ode regularisation de cours dreau.          6) Industrie chimique:
22) Barrages et autres installations destinis A retenir les eaux ou A les  a- Instaiation de stockage do petroe, de produTts petrocNmiques at
stocker d'une maniure durable.                                        chtmiques
23) Installtion d'oltoducs et de gazoducs                               7) Industrne des produits alirnentaires
24) installation daqueducs.                                              a- Industrie des corps gras vigitaux et animaux
24) Installation d'aqueducs.                          ti~~~~~~- Conserve dIe prodults ansimawc at vigitaux
25) Villages de vacances et hWteis dune capaciti superieure a25Dlrs.      c- Fabrication de produits eanmters
26) Stations dcpuration.                                                  d- Brasserie et maitedre
27) Stockage de feanaies.                                                 e- Confrseries et sdorle
f-  hnstaatiaons destnies i abattage cranimaux;
28) Fabricaton de fibres ninraies artiticielles.                          9- Fecuieries industiielles;
29) Fabrication, conditionnement. chargement ou encartouchage de          h- Usines de farina de poissons et dhuile de poissons;
poudres At expbosifs.                                               8) Industrie textile, industrie du cur, du bols at du pa,ier
30) AteLiers diquarrissage.                                               a- Usines de laage, de degraissage et de blanchissement de la
lamne
31) Les industiestextiles et I teintureriles.                             b- Fabdcation de panearux  de fires, de particulss et de
32) Les stations d6puration des zones urbaines.                            cTanteureuie d fibres
9) Industrie du cuoutchouc;
a- Traltement de produt A base dreladomires
10) Proets dfinrastructur.
a- Consfuction de routes el d'airodromes (projets qui ne ligurent
pas A lannexe 1)
b- Uts trarnways
I1) Modrifcati  des projet figurant A fannexe 1 at qul ont donnA lieu
prcedemnment A une Aude drimpact sur rerrvirnnement.
Annex 05 - 3



SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 06. DRAFT TORs FOR WATER RESOURCE STUDIES
The following project descriptions were developed for the National Water Strategy of Tunisia and
were reported in:
Republique Tunisienne. Ministere de I'Agriculture. DGRE. Etude du secteur de l'eau. Theme 5.
Analyse des problemes de la pollution hydrique. Rapport deflnitif: Groupement Lahmeyer
International - SCET-Tunisie. Tunis, 1998.
Annex 06 - 1



I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      



8.2.3 Avant-Projet T5.3: Elaborer les grandes lignes d'un plan directeur
national pour la maitrise de la pollution des ressources en eau
Ref. Rapport:   Thmie 5; Chapitres 6 et 7
JusUfication:    Avec les enormes efforts de reglementation, de controle et d'investissement
dans les domaines d'assainissement des eaux usees et d'orientation des
industries, la Tunisie se trouve au premier rang parmi les pays de la sous-
region, dans la maitrise de la pollution et dans la protection des ressources
en eau. Mais, A co jour, la base generale manque qui donne l'orientation en
matiere de la protection de l'environnement hydraulique qui aurait un
caractere imperatif pour tous les operateurs economiques. De nombreuses
reflexions et travaux ont ete entrepris dans ce domaine, notamment par le
MEAT, p.ex. le "Programme d'action national de l'environnement et du
developpement durable pour le XXI6" sisde (Agenda 21 National). Afin de
se preparer convenablement pour les anness apres 2000 dans le domaine
hydraulique, il est recommande de franchir l'tape suivante. Ce
franchissement doit consister a concrstiser les rssultats obtenus a ce jour et
A proceder A l'elaboration du plan directeur national pour la mattrise de la
pollution de l1eau.
Description de   Dans l'objectif d'orienter les operateurs economiques et socio-economiques
'intervention:   vers un developpement durable, il est propose quo le MEAT procede a
l'elaboration d'un plan directeur natonal pour la maitrise de ia pollution de
l'eau. Pour ce faire, il pourra toutefois se servir des experiences en la
matiere dont disposent d'autres organismes administratifs ou de recherche
et enseignement Parmi les sujets qui seront pris en consideration, les sujets
suivants ne manqueront surtout pas:
- La projection de l'evolution de la qualite du milieu recepteur, dans le cas
precis, celle des reserves d'eau, tant en surface (dans les oueds ou lacs
de retenue) que dans les nappes. Ceci est a faire en tenant compte de la
sensibilite du produit qui doit etre A la disponibilite de tous les citoyens et
ceci en bonne qualite et & tout momenL
- La projection de lIevolution dans le cbte des pollueurs potentiels, a savoir,
les industries, I'agriculture, la population, les services.
- Les normes admissibles; les moyens juridiques, institutionnels, humains
et technologiques pour les faire respecter.
- La recherche des techniques altematives de production et d'utilisation. en
jouant aussi sur le critere d'economie de l'eau. NB: le prix n'est bien sur
pas le seul parametre A prendre en consideration, car le c6te social ne
peut pas Atre n6gligd dans les travaux de reflexion relatifs A l'eau.
- Importance du r6le que l'information joue dans ce domaine, tant par des
media 'publics' que par l1enseignement. La population doit etre inform6e
sur la situation actuelle, sur la rapidit6 de degradation de la qualite de ce
produit, sur les altematives disponibles tant du cote production que de
l'utilisation, Soumission et adopton de la strategie nationale.
Apres son etablissement, il est important de proceder intensivement a sa
publication, en insistant surtout sur sa vision et ses resultats A long terme
mais aussi sur la n6cessit: de son application dans l'imm6diat.
Annex 06 - 2



Action T5.la   Actualisation de l'lnventaire des sources potentielles de pollution
hydrique.
RWf. Rapport   ThAme 5; Chapitre 6.1.1.3
Justification:    Pour definir et representer les objectifs poursuivis en matiere de contr6le de
la qualite des eaux, des cartes des sources de pollution hydrique, cartes de
vulnerabilite des nappes et des cours d'eau a la pollution, cartes de la
qualit6 de tous les milieux recepteursi etc. faciliteront la suivi de M'etat
environnemental du milieu recepteur. Ces cartes doivent etre bas6es sur
des donn6es fiables et representatives de chaque milieu recepteur et par
consequent elles dolvent etre systematiquement actualis6es, sur la base des
inventaires actualis6s. Plusieurs donn6es existent d6A, notamment le
cadastre des rejets hydriques industrels (CADRIN), recemment elabore par
l'ONAS ainsi que les donnees collectees par I'OTED/ANPE, les cartes de la
pollution elabor6es par la DGRE (la carte de 1993 indique la source de la
pollution hydrque, et le milieu recepteur [oued ou nappel auquel les eaux
us6es sont rejetees), et les resultats de suivi fait par la DGETH qui peuvent
etre exploit6s pour relaboration des cartes en question.
Description de   Pour l'actualisation de l'inventaire et l'etablissement des cartes, les interven-
l'intervention:   tions suivantes sont proposees: 
-   D6signation au sein de I'ANPE d'une commission charg6e de la
direction de l'action et de t'Mlaboration des cartes en question.
-   DAfinition des diff6rentes classes de qualite des eaux a representer en
foncton des modes d'exploitation actuels de ces eaux, de la periode
pour laquelle une moyenne des donnees sera effectu6e, et en fonction
de la forme de reprAsentation des dlasses de qualit6 des eaux sur la
carte.
-   D1coupage du r6seau des eaux de surface en differents trongons
dAfinis oCb les donn6es qualite devront etre reprAsent6es; idem pour
les eaux souterraines.
-   Elaborafton d'un mod6le mathematique permettant de convertir les
donnees en fonction des differentes classes de qualiR definies.
-   Evaluation de toutes les donn6es existantes on matiere de qualit6 des
saux de surface en Tunisie (Barrages, Oued Medjerda et Canal MCB),
en controlant leur exhaustivit6 du point de vue des classes de qualite A
repr6senter en liaison avec les trongons du reseau des eaux de
surface, tels que definis; idem pour les eaux souterraines.
-   Organisaton, pendant touts la p6riode definie, de la collecte de
donn6es sur la qualite des eaux; dans le cas ou des lacunes seraient
constat6es, completer les donn6es de base.
-   Elaboration etlou parachevement d'une carte de base en l'int6grant
dans un SIG pour 1'enregistrement des donn6es qualite, calcul des
classes de qualit des eaux pour les sous-bassins definis et
visualisation des classes qualitM sur la carte.
-   Activit6s de routine dans le cadre du projet Mise A jour continue des
cartes de la qualite des eaux.
Annex 06 - 3



Action T5.1b   Mise en place d'un r6seau national de suiVi et de contrOle de la qualit6
des ressources en eau
Rf. Rapport:  Theme 5; Chapitre 6.1.1.3; 6.1.2.2
Justification:    Les reseaux de contr6le de la qualite des eaux existants en Tunisie sont tres
limit6s, que ce soit au niveau de leur couverture du territoire ou au niveau de
leur technologie et performance. En general, I'accent du contr6le de la
qualite des eaux est mis au parametre salinit6, pourtant plusieurs autres
parametres ou matieres de pollution peuvent affecter la qualite de l'eau.
Par ailleurs, les donnees sur la qualite des eaux sont souvent dispers6es au
sein de certains organismes, donc non centralis6es. La situation actuelle
necessite absolument d'Atre chang6e pour assurer un contr6le plus efficace
de la qualite des eaux.
Description de   La mise en place du r6seau national de contr6le de la pollution hydrique
l'intervention:   consists en grande partie d'une extension et amelioration des parties de
reseaux qui sont deja en place. II faudra s'en servir des r6seaux de suivi des
eaux de surface et souterraines en place, et des extensions de ces demiers
telles que prevues par plusieurs projets proposes dans le cadre du Theme 3,
notamment les actions T3.2a et T3.2d. Cette action profite egalement du
renforcement du personnel et logistiques (y compris le renforcement en
capacit6s de laboratoires) (T5.1j). De ce fait, les interventions A entreprendre
consistent notamment en:
- Analyse des cartes des sources potentielles de pollution hydrique.
Elaboraton des criteres indiquant le potentiel de risques provenant des
pollueurs actuels et potenUels. Proceder A l'identiflcation du potentiel de
risques. Etablissement d'une liste de prioit6s a respecter lors de la mise
en place du r6seau.
- Renforcement et modemisaffon du reseau de mesure des elements
majeurs limite actuellement au nord et a un degr6 moindre au centre du
pays (multiplication de points de mesure, evaluer l'utilitA d'installation des
salinigraphes et de la tel6transmission des mesures, etc.) en se servant,
dans la mesure du possible, des reseaux en place ou renforces par les
projets propos6s au Theme 3.
- Etablir les programmes d'Achantillonnage, puis proceder A leur r6alisation
dans le suivi quotidien.
- Mise en place d'un systeme de contr6le et de suivi de la pollution dans les
cours et plans d'eau au moyen de SIG (stations de mesures, fiches de
situation, publication des cartes de vulnerabilite A la pollution, publication
periodique des cartes de pollution, etc.), en tenant compte de la carte de
base produite par l'action T5.1a.
- Activit6s de routine dans Is cadre du projet Mise A jour continue des
cartes de la qualit des eaux.
- Collecte des donnees dans des banques centrales des donnees de la
qualite des eaux A partir desquelles les resultats sont mise a la
disposition de tous les utilisateurs.
Annex 06 - 4



Action T5.le    Elaborer un programme pour la r6forme du cadre institutionnel
RWf. Rapport:   Thbme 5; Chapitres 4, 7 et 8
Justification:    Le savoir-faire dans le domaine de la protection des ressources en eau no
manque pas en Tunisie. Cependant, c'est au niveau institutionnel qu'existe
des faiblesses. Actuellement, plusieurs organismes sont impliqu6s dans la
collecte des donn6es relatives a la qualite des eaux. Ceci est acceptable
dans la mesure oiu los tAches, les responsabilites de tous les intervenants
sont bien pr6cisees, et si les rbsultats sont traites selon un consensus
commun, puis si les r6sultats sont rassembles par un service qul assure leur
stockage et qui se charge de les mettre A la disposition de tous les
utilisateurs potentiels. Vu qu'en Tunisle les conditions uprecision des textes"
et "un servicem ne sont pas remplies, ron risque de ne pas obtenir la pleine
efficacit6 dans le contr6le de la qualite des eaux, ou bien, I'autre extreme,
de constater un double emploi.
La gestion de la qualite de reau necessitera une combinaison assez
diff6rente de specialisations. Ainsi, les autorites tunisiennes devraient
recenser les disciplines necessaires et repartir, en fonction de celles-ci, les
taches aux  organismes concemes, renforcer les  programmes  de
collaboration entre les organismes et les universit6s et mettre la flexibilitA et
l'efficacit du secteur pNv6 au profit de ce secteur.
Description de   En se servant des reflexions faites dans les Chapitres 6 et 7 de propositions,
I'intervention:   puis dans les conclusions du Chapitre 8, il est propose de realiser les
interventions suivantes:
- Constitution d'une commission repr6sentant les divers organismes
impliques dans ce domaine qui assumera l'elaboration du programme.
- Identifier et proposer les ajustements insfftutionnels n6cessaires.
Description des taches des uns et des autres, et definition des limites de
leur responsabilitA.
- Evaluation des moyens humains et materiel existants.
- Evaluation des moyens et des possibilites de coordination et de
cooperation entre rAdministraffon et les universites et centres de
recherches.
- Evaluation de la possibilit6 de d6sengagement de rEtat concemant
certains services et de la possibilite de mettre au profit de ce secteur la
flexibilite et l'efficacit6 du secteur priv6.
- Evaluation de la n6cessit6 de cr6ation des bureaux regionaux.
- Elaboration d'un projet de programme pour ia reforme du cadre
insfftutionnel en tenant compte de resuftats des evaluations faites.
- Ajustement, puis approbation du programme par les hi6rarchies
competentes.
Le programme 6tant approuv6, il est imperatif de proc6der a son application.
Annex 06 - 5



SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF WSIL
ANALYSE ENVIRONNEMENTALE SECTORIELLE DU PISEAU
ANNEX 07. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE PARTICIPATORY PERIMETER PLANNING
A
Annex 07 - 1



0



~f1wIIJlL1WI1JNIl.~Rfl'S                                        I)E,MARCltE D'UN PRIOJET DIlRRIGATION VANS-)
g                                          V  ~~~~~~~~LE CADlRE DIE L'APPROCIIE PARTICIPATIVE 
i, -             5ll                                                                 PLANNING D'INTERVENTION
ACTIVITES                                          INTERVENAITS
_________________________________.____________                    __        CtOA              Athons ds       ACTIONS DE LAPPROCHE PARTICIPATIVE                 t        S        RYAT
K)ENTFICATION DU PROJET                                   _  oJc _   Ccntd  tsldb           Apect        Aspects  R1unions        CrEdatIo dAlMeS
q . . . ________________________________________________                         user          T                ec       allan   psi gtboup  c  Assist&, Talr .
.i lM tafacauion dott upmjc cst une Elape ndcessaire avantrdlna)bo1ation                                                      __
d'Eludes apeixntiesy nt altMrotes . Wile concetne:  
4Ddiimitlion de p6ftbtre- Bablizement de In liste des                                            .R1 R'ons Sfitdtls de romatin
f  tWMIchIirts   r pddzwponion les tnetRdliciates potentleis)                                                                                                     actions (1) ii (5) durmnt Its enqottes
s-IM     tbtectnttqes s (ressources tutmrelis, disponibilite ct              a                                                                                             I
lloctio n dcs rssoaurces en cua, localsation possible du pErisnetic,                                                                                           (voir annexe I et 2)
qualitc de 1eata, natur do sol et gEomorphologic.)
> *IAS aspds tweittux 5 (IdontirKanion des conhraintes previsibles,
i  itrdition dIrilgaion, natuus des cultures exirtasites ...................  *   O 
I 4,'sltuatlmai  des edbls dett perttIons ds'mdnagemeot                    *
ti dn ita. sat vatttsw (sawr ta bas des nornes adniases
t   gEnhakuentcdesapritdulsda shefklstilU)
'PHASER Ia BtIrU1DE VE FAiSAIIIUTE                                                            __     ______          ___        ___      _     ____
I-ENQUETWSTZIENI2H      I K1 T SOUQ.ICQNQMlQUES (ENOJ
2 Collect. des,dn        tot lIs milieux physique (pIt                                                                 I I I  I  II  IIIIal
ti ole    I. ettsists et comn Idmeni dEl(udes ndces3aires (  tn.*eAo ,%_ ______j
. *wsetaAlon des mirmincts des composmntes du pmjt,c des cultures         _       *    0         .                  I2)
- des maodtles cultumsux adoptds do rsetsuet mode dinigalion
! Fitsc. d resettt    inissemntenct de drninage (f11 y a lieu)I                          II                                       I     I I          i       I
I    S        lotdwi,ulaiIn t(gravfalc *perin, locasliMse..)    *               C    *    0
X#i. technIque d4 lnsatlulonncile
V.. mft-2Xsiexd u)ienceda   enlsa ttil ticais ladults   an Int..,            0                         I                                   |3)
N*09visk    luhIba.dudfdateu                                         U       0      0
wApc tmddseiodtl
d           aIlan dos do besoinsen seaibillsatliosdesb ndflciui_i                           I         -  t ,                           - -m            - i
24M 1             2-AiRU      TECIIlN>iQU AU NIVEAU __i''*'''^'..........    ..,   
Ir tAVAIUPROJKTSOAIIAII(AM
itJ4, 1^t*ttta t   l'o tts apque   pfdokJques ect Ootec o  ises
-    u Miilo6  eiacnis tneestvauax ek  er                                  I   I    I
visite     connauissance avce IC    atcl-w me in consuit)             | *              0
et les reprEteotuss do CIWDA                                                        I                   4iIlIf
13Et10de pdogique iou gtecihique eItailic                                        * ,
oplotectk'i,to uiaises.| O   | cartopsihlc)                                                           1 1   -II -I-
_teulo    des tr tuxci suiviEirisArfondissaenijs concenris   -                                                         -                             -
rem tRpones r=   t xttxmns                                                    ItI t        1Q I            -lt--ll               t                    - l       l'
pw .i wykes d_ - -A-                                                                                 2                 .    -.                 -



INTERVENANTS
AUItIVI`TVl  S                                                 Actions di      ACTIONS DE iAPPROCHE PARTICIPATIVE                             1OBEIVATIOI4S
AIO taCx  P tit      aulntlibsati    Aspe     Apwts        unions      Cf4fthn i dAIC tA
0.00, Cs.isuI    tLechniquus    sotion   par gro        Assisisac. Tech~.
.       9                _   _  tttit  Ctt              _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-12 3  1151 61 T b  9  0 1111 1 13  14i 0 317 I h
2.1                                                           . ............nu air
-DdIimitition du perinttre                                                                     4')
Conrfumltion de la liszt (eg alricuIerFI_ tnC           W _                                ___L____
- ?,esntentln ftes varainnies techluiques des conlposnlta dui psojet            9   0                                      2)                               2tme tour des n5unions gendkes:
(point drene retenu. etude agre m.niqutdletniliEe.besoins en cau des                         43)                                                           Presentation des dEtails sur Its aspects
cultures, station (ce pmrlinage, rcservoir, mode dtirrigation, trwEs (es                     44)                                                           - techniques actions (I)at()
rEweaux dirTigntion ct de drainage. inrrnstructure de bfSe   des                             e) et de gestionw actions (6) ik (9)
sunidagenselits fonciers pistes, twre veitnt nivellerment,.)
Ajostement des varlanics selon la discussion avcc les                                O
bneircinlres de pirokt (actualisation do coOtt do projet)                                  ___                                               ____
^ Mode de gestion du rutur pdritbire: (concept d'AIC,
brave prEsentation do anoxe tei fonctionnmcnnt et dentretleni                                 (6)
des rde5euu hydmuliques du trimetrec des noxalites dc recouvrtcnent.)                         AT                        __    __)
* Pinaliti do contrat drengngemnent. du rotidb de roulement                                    (P I
et do contrat de gdrance  )istributiona des contrets drenggemenit
_ColIacto des avis des  _nEiciaies conc_nusi I_aspect                                                                          __stion  __
3-EtMDED  FAtsARILirm  (I.) _F
3-1 *-CZoeptiou du proJd                                                                                         I                     I   I
* Resumd des oplions techniques de Il'usn 6ement hydrnulique                          0 i -    °I___I L                                                  T
* ScMmtdnm eumgenenti tQ chelle rddulte)                                _ I_ I             II                    _      il__
Plumns denseanble b rdchelle 1/50(1) ou IQOOO t1
desrEsenux hydruliques                    _                               _    _         -       -        _I______
Elbation deat coinposantl agronomnique                                   I           0
342 -Anslyss ECOaWnUlIse0 Ct FhIFaIKiftr
*Esihastion des coalts d'investtsse,nentt (des frais d'exploitatlon    -.-      -    0      ____
txes et variables, du prix deo reient du m3 CDau f distrihbuer                             _||-                                                  |
Esthnatlon des charges de production ct des revens |s
des agriculteurs                                   __ II_I|-lI
*vshutotion des taux de rentabilild Econornique et finnictere            |   |_|____
* Taox elt nxdalld de paletene  des coSOts dexpluitaition pr    *      n  o I
k leabnfickirems
uihmtkoti du budget prdvisionnel deo AIC                                              0
0



*  4                                                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
INTElWVEANAttS     .        
A(:IVITK's_                                                     Atioen 6        ACTIONS DE L'APPROCHE PARlTICIPATIVE                            OOSERVATIONJS
AAn CtICI Soo bpUgH    smbikjdl    Aspects    Atse    R*tnione  _   Cidlon erAIC at
ICchilq_ _es_lo   Ipar            _ Assit0ct ht>J
_  _       .   .        __        _         _   _   _   12141' tiL7-l  t.1    .................2....41 .1 6 1   1 1  9. 1 ol it1121E  13 114  15161171
PHASE 11- FIUUI)P WAVANT r'ROJEF VErAhLLE__
Redimenionnneoict Evest tuh    pdrtbr _d_O __L_            ____                       0
*Avartfse mEt e.  vistimndli'd chuicune de t r      nts _                                   ___-- - - __
Prsentation des notes de caicut at dik plans de d4tais                               0
'Actnalisatin du tunx de tutabilitd                              _
oritntion des    cts tCh         ( ro. ci o  .M,.o llKn,s   i,            0                  (10)                                                          REun _- --  loi do smsib bdsaio pr gropo retreitits
PHlASE 111- HOUSSIER UEtEXFCUTION                      __________________________________________
Co. l ds ca el   r    w S. 
1- ETUDE D'EECUFTItON
- Implant et emitlhilsation sut le tetitt ties   tents                             .| |         12)  e| | | | ||||                                 ||05prEse)ice des    riciaires
costlttiftis des dienitts  It                                                 I    I et ouvI_LtOt
* Etablisstment des pl:nms d'cxcullon des diffwnts -uvenjes                            0
(rWmilhi.3e  gosigenci.¢vif.)           _ne s        -ic                         --
Levi des prorils en klng et cn travers ces cnnalistiors. voicvks                   |
im ntes sir tenain & uroc _e Wkel_                                                                  .11111   LLL LEnral __ _r
cMmoire descAiptipei(cutij atirf                                                     0 .                               F                v           .
2- DOSSIER DE   NSUILTATINIDES04NThtYPRISES
ESt conroennr  ispohmrts adfdn l4l.c e satc es des  1o |o lO |l                                     I                     II 
CREATION DE rAIC:                                                                        !    14)                                            W       H     VoirdEtail en" tisexss
3- REALISATHYNRU PIRoJIP1'
3.11 teceinrt deis ci. d'al'rts (AlA) )II                                                                              III
hlaronumerl'AMc de 1avisdA.0                                                0   -           _      _                         -                                Voir en atiexe les detaiLs des actions (15),
3-21 Dptfmnut du    s                                                                                                                                        (I 6) et (I 7)
3.3/lrorauilo dos ca,trprkrw (lu(uMW.idio do izEnilat f(1704 Iswiam)
3-4IEEcuoadon  umis c                                                                       ____
Notlica lonparo.S Pour enregistieltni du  arcbdsign6                  m _   1                                                  -  - ..  -l  -L
kromio rrMcdo#MrMICt7gdcstrvaux                                  -I                                                           |
*Formalondes puoitn*sclisdesAIC                                   _I                        .          1___
rc-adrimendut  assistrane  chnique auxi AIC                               E          0  
- Suivide l'apprikdonduo       c  d                                         E   _       _      (cnS d gri
O            Q bOgdw.IConsl
_-,          1r      " elriEods do iraax



iWR hK   vas7APPROCIJE PARTIaxrI                                                                                                                       ANNEX E P1-
IfTERVENANTS                 PHASES D'ETUDE D'UN PROJET
Acrivrrus                                    cROA    I"* 
IJOA CJAta 5k  CAid   FWIATtOt   FAISADUTE   UUUDE D AVANT  A    EIUD    JO  DS*IVAtttINS
_ It4 t    _______E    A_  _  F  _5T Ornl      ET        r aEsECiD     _ _ ;E_C_         __O
i 2 3 4    . 7      9 I to  1  2 t3   14  1! Cette phast sets mwec e A ttavers des r6unionb
g6vEralcs ou par groupcs testreints danas fc but
1- INFORMIATION, S.IPSIBlI.ItATION Et CONCERTATION                                                                                               d'inromier et de tscibiliser les futurs
AVEC LES DISNEFiCtAtRMS                                                                                                                        aggtiultcras gn fiur et ainesure de l'avlatincme
du projct .
I- I REunion gintralc d'infrrt,naIn                                                                                                             i U SoDA doil Ehc present aux graidlCs runions
I 141 PrEsen t oin des ob el~f dyriq   t ed csonootskcnqe             -U_           0                                                             Ott SEImihtoiC res___
L           __ _1      1.P tettind seicy   uEter r                           c_  _   __  .  _o __. _=. ..  . .  _   usmmrs...
I Ddlinnitntion du perimbtre: Etoblissement dI In lisle des
bdn6ficiaires (en fonctioni do lsur prEdisjosition)
2-P Esenhion des viantes des cuiposanrtes do proict. des cultures     d  n   * 0                    _
et des mordles couturnix adopids. du reseou ct du mode dirrigatlion
proposts. do reau dtaminissenitent  de dminage _i _ a_ _f_ _ .____
3- Meurm d'accompagnemneit existantes                                      0         0O
4-Test ds degrd'adhdsion des bdldKcines au projet cl0                                0 
prosilion ifamEliorations (selon k aspirations des bEnErciacues)    ________l___________________________
6- tdeMiftstion dei besoins en sensibilisation des bdneilchitires                                 __
I -1-2 - Sensibillswrion d la gession dnuprojet                                                                                                   __________________
. Mode de gestion du fulur pErlnttre: concept d'AIC.                                                                                              11 y a lico de preciscr la nfcessie
breve presentation du aode tk fotclionbiemcnt ct dentrttict                                                                                    d tuin personnel spELAOisE et compElent
des reseaux hdnftliques du ptEtintire                                                                                                            au sem  de 'AICt
7. PrEsentation du coOt dinvestissementi de fonciotiotcnaCltt et               -    0
d'entretien, des anodalitEs do mecouvremcnt des Crois d'exploitationi et
de maitenance (vente deno, foods de rouiement..),tnux el
montants envisagds                 _
S. fitttie de contola denagtenmcnlt. du fonds de romulecnt                0 C  _    O                                                             Le_ contrals dengagement font b recupErer
et do contr t de pdrance .Distribution des contran d'engaotemeint                                                                                 t ia prochalne mission
1-tlctc des avis det; bwffiIniresGcon ernant  =se    =so              -                              _ _ _                       -      -
1-2 *R- snlonspargrvupes reslrntr sorires tpeckt sech,dqfses                                                                                      Les rEunionts par petits groupes seront mendes
Inr l'lnnieur Conseil.
1i0 PrEsentatilon des aspects techniques (rint foncier, plan patrcellnire  U O       0 O
eniplacweent des oovrages, dEbit el pression ntux bornes,four deau,
dwe, mode ebrigation . prEsentation des coinignes dec
tonctionnemenl et d'ctttrceln des fdsenux hydrauliques
(calendrier. docuinens de suivi ...), dEontomie de I'en
(seasibilitonet d information ttr le$ sysiemes exisiants)) ..                            _______ _.
i 11 Colecte des xcontents detigngetnct              __ *                                 _Q___ L  = _    _ __
112- jnpl4stton des rescoux hydrauliques en prEsence des beneGciaires                                                                                o _  v_e de (acliter Is sulision d rroj4t ulrteit
18.Elabonation dee    ea        ilvuaitt tiion             , I                                          -I          °         q                        | F  et :.s  de .   .,. ...  =
Lo ph t. dlidalok  tlof & mnnt to W#Matet    e                                                                                                           u CRa.A   d



_____...__UKIS   __                     lPh^"tdc                                                         A N N E X _  P-2-
SIIERVENASI5                ~~~~Pham. do
ACrrlviTls                                    CRD_   i9            Etude         iancm.niit d                                Observations
MIS CIAE Sp4e. Coms  crexecuion    A    rsatlan
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ___               MaUit          __ _       _     dupiiutt
- C   TION De IAI'C PFT .tiAfllt.i&rEmNr DU CONTRAT
Dt GERArICE                                                             x.
14 lapes rJc O*erHtan de (IAIC:                                                                                           Rdalisc ptr Ia C/AIC du CRDA cta  suivrc avant It ilncement dos travaux
* Mhis au point    lb lislWle ds agrinultcurs
s Repdmge des Elniolns ilitiu  pts pour foriner le Comcil
d Administrnilou (CA) de l'AIC
* Assembiee (Mandrle (ldiscueion et dlection)
c Consltutioui du comilt piuviwoirt
s De cndo de crdtiom do rAlC
. AMrohago
* Preiamtlon do dossier d'aiprobaukon
* Tnsunlsslon Dt Coll)
* Appiabollon par Ic (ill
s Antid de crfation de lhAIC
* Tenue de rAssembide G6nrale comsiltutliv
s Elcton des inmnbcs ie rAlC
c Dsldon do Conscil dAdoministratido
* 1abrisset t du contmt do gidnice                                                                                                            c
Mi. ASSISrANCK DES A U:_______________.
ILPFOOM01i  iJtsannescIEz des d     1 AIC                                   =         =_
*Journ coimune iWrnmialon a ltnlcntlio des prdsidentis
trdsorits ou des gardicis poinpistes, niguadiers.
(y compris In p0parntion de la journae)
* joetrne partliculAre do fonnutiio fmr spM Cialild
1. prEsidenas
2. Irsoters
3 gardkins poniptmes
4. .iuadier
To  ,  ,.. - IfinArfi et WIAR         avrI
7rt  Eacedeau,cmna  tuist t   teen"  atu_________ '_____                                                       ____
* Sensibillsationet Infomintiolb ties u es et deisC colicernont_
le contrat d'nbonnecmnt A 1'eas.
le contm tde grmnee. la colkect des reodvaices. cienseiginenieits
ties de lexpdrinc <ks nuries AIC ( on malibr do gestion)
r Etnacnctrt des pcrsonnes cMs dae AIC in-situ
1. btnue des docuntens techniques et rtmDncders
2. fonctiolnmneni dc IAIC et rEsolution des prob50inet intnees
3. orientation et suivi des activllds des AIC
* Assistance I fiablissemenm des budgets
#Asslsnsce A rfar¢l financier annuel
:t)iuagnot des pertes fInnwIiesm
Astlutnre At IAJssetnbe (;On&ne
UASltsnGc aU diagnostic des equipetnents el de la condulte des
rpgatios (dose. lour rear, Economie d'eau)
,Asistsine A I'entcrcen podventirdes rdcsaux driffigation et de drainage
* Asistance I is cflle et rinterpritailn des donnDes
1dreploltatbrt trlnestrielles                                         _   _____                                                                                                         ______
Sensibiisatlon    des         i r.tL dsIesgersnucuiotral deSrgnce                         _ _ _ 1           -               c  ntra( de germnce doiltre sign6
i* Bsbibssttemt des anecxes du control do gErmnice                                                                          avant la mise en eau
o            * Suivi des proc¢ires de sigicturc do Control do Crsoncm par
_   rAIC, b. CRDAe le IJouvmertur
ON           18- S.SiW di tiapplicaden dti contrnt dzeirance                         _                 _    _ =                _         au cours de lexploitition du proj¢t



