Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20422-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUROS 112.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
05/10/2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group, MNSRE
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TND)
TND 1.29 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00   EURO 1.11
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
ANPE          National Environment Protection Agency
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
ASIL          Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ASIL2         Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
AVFA          Agricultural Extension and Training Agency
BCT           Central Bank of Tunisia
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFD           Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CRDA          Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development
DGFE          Directorate General of Finance and Encouragements
DGGR          Directorate General of Rural Works
DGPA          Directorate General of Agricultural Production
DGRE          Directorate General of Water Resources
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FMPM          Financial Management Procedures Manual
FMS           Financial Management System
GCF           General Controller of Finances
GOT           Government of Tunisia
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IRESA         Institute of Agricultural Research and Education
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LSDP          Letter of Sector Development Policy
METAP         Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NPMU          National Program for Modernization and Upgrade
PFS           Project Financial Statements
PMR           Project Management Report
PMT           Project Management Team
SEA           Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SOE           Statements of Expenditures
TOR           Terms of Reference
WRM           Water Resources Management
WSIP          Water Sector Investment Project
WSR           Water Sector Review
WUA           Water Users Associations
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Direcfor:    Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Madani M. Tall



TUNISIA
TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       5
3. Benefits and target population                                                      6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          14
-4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Environment                                                                        16
6. Social                                                                              18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. . Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           21
2. Other                                                                             21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           57
MAP(S)
No. IBRD 28811



TUNISIA
TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: May 10, 2000                                Team Leader: Madani M. Tall
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie        Sector Manager/Director: Doris Koehn
Project ID: P035707                               Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage, WY - Other Water
Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan          O Credit        O Grant         D Guarantee     O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): EUR 112.1 million Equivalent
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four
years; 0.75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:.    Source,                                  Local         Foreign.        Total
GOVERNMENT                                                    137.50           0.00         137.50
IBRD                                                            6.00          97.00         103.00
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                  2.50           15.00         17.50
Total:                                                        146.00          112.00        258.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Address: 30, rue Alain Savary, 1002 Tunis
Contact Person: Abdallah Mallek, Director General, DGFE
Tel: 216-1-842687                 Fax: 216-1-784447                Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Ministere de la Cooperation Internationale et de hInvestissement Exterieur
Address: 98, Avenue Mohamed V, 1002 Tunis-Belvedere
Contact Person: Mr. Kamel Ben Rejeb, Director General
Tel: 216-1-798-522              Fax: 216-1-799-069                Email: Multilaterale@mci.gov.tn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2001        2002 -       2003        2004        2005        2006
Annual     5.0          20.0         25.0        25.0        20.0         8.0
Cumulative     5.0          25.0        50.0        75.0        95.0        103.0
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 01/02/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD FOt-    MF . 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's main objectives are to (a) promote effective integrated water resource management by: (i)
establishing/implementing an sound institutional framework and sector reform measures for demand
management (revised tariff policy, new institutional arrangements) as shifting programs from supply to
demand management is the main thrust of the Government's strategy in the sector, (ii) improving the
capacity of the Government, Water Users Associations (WUAs) and private operators to efficiently manage
resources, and (iii) facilitating real-time management of ground and surface water (from conventional and
non-conventional sources); and (b) promote conservation of water resources and protection of the
environment. These two objectives are expected to significantly improve the productivity of agriculture
and access to safe water in rural areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators of progress for achieving project development objectives will monitor the effectiveness of
policies and investments and their impact on both the beneficiaries and the water resource base. This
would enable the Government to assess the phasing of investments, policies and institutional measures
during the duration of the WSIP and provide the basis for long term support of the water sector (notably
during a follow up project: WSIP2). For objective (a): indicators will, on the institutional front, monitor:
(i) the effectiveness of institutions involved in the water sector (including WUAs) as a result of better
defined mandates, improved skills-mix and additional training; and (ii) the degree of successful transfer of
operation, maintenance and replacement functions to beneficiaries. On the financial front, indicators will
monitor (i) the impact of policies, as they pertain to cost recovery, and sustainability of maintenance
mechanisms; reduction of subsidies to CRDAs and impact of reforms; and (ii) the impact of an expansion
of recent water pricing reforms and water savings policies (programme national d'6conomie d'eau). On the
physical front, indicators will monitor (i) water use efficiency in relation to water availability from surface
and groundwater sources. For objective (b): indicators will monitor: (i) the sustainability of water use
(quality and allocation parameters) through more effective instruments and water allocation between
perimeters and/or subsectors (agriculture, tourism and industry). It is important to note however that due
to the duration of the WSIP (five years) and the annual variability in climatic conditions in Tunisia, the
assessment of the full impact of these measures will be difficult. The key performnance indicators are listed
in Annex l. They were finalized during appraisal and reconfirmed during negotiations.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R 2000-46                Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/27/2000
A series of in-country consultations, convening stakeholders from various levels of government, sectoral
ministries, and civil society have been undertaken in preparation of the CAS. This process culminated with
its adoption by the Board on April 27, 2000.
The sector-related CAS goals are to: (a) improve the conservation and sustainable management of
natural resources, mainly water, and the protection of the environment; and (b) help alleviate poverty,
especially in rural areas by encouraging a more efficient irrigated agriculture (stressing high value crops
with proven competitive advantage) and supporting a long-term water management strategy that does not
penalize poor rural dwellers. The first CAS-related goal would be supported by the project by: (i)
strengthening water sector institutions in key public functions (strategic planning, monitoring, regulatory
-2 -



mandate, and sensitization) and facilitating their retrenchment from those to be carried out,by the private
sector, notably WUAs; and (ii) encouraging greater efficiency in the use of scarce water resources, in
particular in the agriculture sector which uses 85% of the available water, through policy measures (tariff
and regulatory), and investments over the duration of the proposed project.  As for the second
CAS-related goal, it is expected that the WSIP would help mitigate the effects of droughts on small
farmers (an important group of the population around the poverty line in the rural areas) through increased
access to water as a result of better usage and less wastage in irrigated perimeters, and improved access to
safe drinking water, and tariff revisions which do not penalize the small farmers.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. The Water Sector has always been at the center of Government's development agenda in
Tunisia. Its strategic importance is even more pronounced in the agriculture sector which consumes 80%
of water resources. As such, it has benefited from considerable public investment since independence (over
$2 billion or 37% of the public investment budget for agriculture during the IXth plan alone-1997-2001)
which have translated into major water mobilization infrastructure (22 large dams, 100 hill dams, 500 hill
lakes, 120,000 tubewells etc.) thereby reducing the country's vulnerability to irregular rainfall and recurrent
drought, bringing irrigated areas to about 350,000 ha (400,000 ha by the start of the Tenth Plan-2002), and
potable water to meet the demands of close to 80% of rural households, all urban areas, tourism and
industry alike. Irrigated agriculture covers only about 7 percent of agricultural' land but generates 45% of
agricultural output. There are about 125,000 farmers that practice irrigation of some type, with half of
those relying on shallow dug wells, 30 percent on surface mobilization, and 20 percent on tubewells.
Thanks to important efforts to promote water users associations (WUAs), there are now about 2450 WUAs
in Tunisia (1500 for Potable Water; 800 for Irrigation; and 150 for Potable Water'and Irrigation). Parallel
efforts at commercialization/privatization of the Water Supply and Sanitation sector are also ongoing.
A strong institutional setup and legislative framework, coupled with a solid sustainable development policy,
has also enabled Tunisia to stand at the forefront of the Middle East and North Africa Region in the area of
natural resource management and environmental protection. While these efforts have allowed the country
to register these important gains, it has become apparent to Government that if current trends persist, water
shortages would be inevitable by 2015 as Tunisia would have developed, by then, its full water resource
potential while demand for water would continue to increase. In this context, and in recent years, the
Govern-ment of Tunisia with the support of major donors (AfDB, AFD, IBRD, JBIC, KfW, etc.) has
conducted a number of key studies (Eau 2000, Eau 21, etc) which culminated with a major comprehensive
Water Sector Review (Etude sur le Secteur de l'Eau) destined to provide a new strategy for integrated water
resource management in Tunisia. The Water Sector Review (WSR), which main thrust is participatory
demand management, was completed in April 1999, and soon after presented at a Round Table in Tunis. It
has been endorsed by the Government as the basis for the proposed project and all future investments in the
water sector in accordance with the new strategy. Its mains guidelines will be included in a Letter of Sector
Development Policy (LSDP). This long term strategy specifically addresses the following sector issues: (i)
integrated management and conservation of water resources; (ii) economic efficiency of irrigation water
use; and (iii) institutional restructuring and capacity building in the water sector.
For Integrated management and conservation-of water resources, the Government is working on two fronts.
On the technical front, it intends to facilitate (i) increased interconnectivity of mobilization and transfer
infrastructure; (ii) improved technical capacity for surface water management based on real time data and
management of groundwater (including registration, qualitative and quantitative monitoring); (iii) proper
management of good rainfall years and reduction of physical losses; and (iv) at a later stage, greater use of
non-conventional water resources (desalinization, reuse of treated wastewater, artificial recharge where
-3 -



economically justified). On the legislative front, the Government will monitor pilot activities on the ground
and progress of participatory management and supervisory approaches to be tested during the WSIP so as
to update the Water Code in the follow-up phase (WSIP2).
For Economic efficiency of irrigation water use, the Government wants to encourage (i) the use of water as
an economic input in competitive and profitable crop production as a result of progressive tariff reforms;
(ii) policies to improve modernization and efficiency of irrigation activities; (iii) legislative and institutional
reforms to encourage water management by users; (iv) agricultural intensification in existing irrigation
areas, and increased productivity of water used in irrigated perimeters through improved farming practices
and better cropping strategies.
On Institutional restructuring and capacity building in the water sector, the Government wants to reduce
excessive involvement of State agencies, improve administrative and financial management, and
accountability with a view to progressively reduce subsidies. This is to be achieved through the progressive
retrenchment of the State from non-public functions in the sector to the benefit of the private sector and
WUAs. The latter would be strengthened and therefore be expected to take on more responsibilities
(financial, technical and managerial). New skills (water economics, statistics, MIS, M&E, community
organization and participation, etc.) needed to solidify a demand management strategy would also be
developed and the efficiency of support services would be improved as a result of ongoing and expected
reforms in agriculture and research institutions (AVFA, IRESA in particular).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The sector issues to be addressed by the project are fully in line with those summarized above. With regard
to integrated mana ement and conservation of water resources, the project would focus on water resources
through irrigation improvement in large and small scale perimeters, groundwater monitoring and
prospecting, water quality control and greater support to, and empowerment of, WUAs. On economic
efficiency of inigation water use, tariff measures and water saving policies will be pursued and
progressively deepened to cover more CRDAs (at least 10 by end of the WSIP) and irrigated perimeters.
Institutional restructuring and capacity building would be addressed through the addition of new skills in
MOA, the development of new training modules oriented toward demand management, specific
capacity-building activities for WUAs and the private sector, and the facilitation of systematic
collaboration between concerned public entities (MOA, Environment, ONAS, ANPE, SONEDE, etc.).
All of the above would support the clear strategic choice made by the Government, notably the shift from
supply (water mobilization) to demand management (through financial/pricing, technical, legal, and
institutional measures). The proposed WSIP would also be the principal vehicle to support implementation
of priority reforms, greater involvement of the private sector, and investments needed to facilitate integrated
water management and environmental protection. In order to reach consensus on these priority reforms,
pilot operations and investments to be included in project, appraisal efforts have built on the extensive
consultation process initiated during the water sector review (WSR) with all key stakeholders (UTAP and
WUAs in particular) and key donors (AFD, AfDB, EIB, EU, JBIC, KfW, etc.) in the sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In addition to key policy and institutional reforms measures described in Section C-2, the project would be
developed around the following investment components: Irrigation Management (including small and
-4 -



large scale perimeter rehabilitation); Groundwater Management; Conservatdon of Water Resource
base and Environmental Protection; Rural Water Supply; and Capacity-Building. Central to all
components would be knowledge development and dissemination.activities for irrigation efficiency and
management, drainage and salinity management, acquifer recharge, treated waste water reuse, etc. This
will also be complemented by the strengthening of public/private capacity for needed research and
extension in the upcoming Bank-supported Agriculture Services Initiative. A detailed description of project
components is available in Annex 2.
Indicative            Bank-  %,of
Component                  -Sector        Costs     % of   financing   Bank-
-_____ ._ --__ .__ .;__ :_-______               NUSM)     - Total   T  OUS$M  financing
Irrigation Management              Irrigation &      112.20       43.5     44.70      43.4
Drainage
Groundwater Management.            Natural            80.70       31.3     24.80      24.1
Resources
.  Management
Water Conservation and            Natural              4.90        1.9      3.60       3.5
Environmental Protection           Resources
Management
Rural Water Supply                 Rural Water        51.90       20.1     26.30      25.5
Supply &
Sanitation
Institutional Strengthening and    Institutional       8.30        3.2      3.60        3.5
Capacity-Building                  Development
Total Project Costs                  258.00      100.0    103.00      100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   258.00      100.0    103.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In agreement with the Government of Tunisia, the Water Sector Investment Project (2001-2005) would be
the first of two consecutive loans, in line with the country's Xth and XIth Development Plans, to assist the
Government of Tunisia in implementing a series of reforms and supporting investments destined to install
demand management practices in accordance with the new strategy for the water sector. Accordingly, it is
expected that implementation of key reforms would be done in two stages. A number of first round reforms
would be supported during WSIP. They include (i) delegating progressively overall responsibility for the
management of irrigation perimeters, including those of the State, to Water Users Associations; (ii)
extending modem commercial cost and income accounting practices to all CRDAs with a view to
introducing transparent billing and contracting procedures between Government and WUAs, and reduce the
cost of water delivery in the irrigation sector; (iii) the implementation of a water tariff structure based on
fixed and variable terms (tarification binome) across priority CRDAs building on current elements (15%
nominal increase for irrigation water per year, 10% for potable water, binomial tarification, tranching, etc.)
(iv) establishing a socio-economic unit for water resources management at the Ministry of Agriculture as
a prelude to future institutions which would see a greater implication of other sectors in water management
decisions; and (v) the formulation of a communication strategy for water conservation.
In addition, the Government of Tunisia has agreed to include in the WSIP, studies and pilot investments
that would help prepare a second set of reforms to be implemented during the course of WSIP2
-5 -



(2006-2010). The "readiness" of these reforms, for which additional work, piloting of new innovations and
consensus-building is required, would be determined at Mid-Term Review (June 2003). They could
include: (i) the revision of the Water Code to: include the definition of time-bound water use rights and
provision for contractual trading of such rights, establish the principle that irrigation tariff policy includes
partial recovery of capital costs (current recovery rates vary from 50% to 125% of O&M depending on the
region and/or type of perimeter but Tunisia is doing better than most countries in the MNA region: national
average of O&M cost recovery rate in 1999 was above 90%), and ensure that potable water tariffs reflect
local mobilization costs, and revision of restrictions pertaining to treated wastewater reuse, etc; (ii) the
definition of a new water tariff structure integrating both surface and ground water; (iii) the restructuring of
water institutions (including the transfer of non-public functions to the private sector and WUAs, and the
streamlining of the remaining public water institutions); and (iv) the creation of economic and institutional
mechanisms for efficient transfer of water from agriculture to other sectors (Urban, Tourism and Industry
in particular) and the promotion of non-consumptive water uses. The detailed list of the policy reform
measure that will be prepared and monitored, and the timetable for their implementation under WSIP and a
subsequent phase were discussed with the Government during appraisal and reconfirmed during
negotiations.
3. Benefits and target population:
It is expected that the Project would generate significant benefits by improving water. resources
management and promoting participatory management of water resources in agriculture, through improved
irrigation efficiency, and improved ability to monitor both water quality and quantity.  Overall
sustainability of investments in small-scale irrigation systems will be improved and public and private
water sector institutions will be strengthened leading to environmentally sustainable use of the water
resource base.
The proposed reforms, coupled with investments in the sector are expected to result in a significant
strategic shift to demand management and address the water sector's basic structural deficiencies. Better
participatory water resources management with institutions (public and private) able to respond to
changing water needs, effective institutional and regulatory framework for effective water resource
allocation, and empowered Water User Associations with the needed financial and managerial autonomy
will help achieve the following important benefits: Environmental benefits would be generated as a result
of sustainable surface and groundwater management through improved monitoring, and the introduction of
participatory aquifer management techniques. Groundwater exploration and monitoring would also provide
the foundation for water resources inventories (quality and quantity) and help define sustainable extraction
rates for economic uses. This will help Tunisia in establishing groundwater management plans for its
at-risk aquifers. Surface water users will also benefit from reduced losses, better management, and
improved measurement. The latter, coupled with the generalization of commercial cost and income
accounting, would also benefit the CRDAs and the canal authority (SECADENORD) in improving the
efficiency of the billing system. With regard to irrigation, the WSIP is expected to result in improved water
resources planning, integrating direct users as well as third-party users. As for Economic and Social
benefits, the rural water supply component will result in improved access to safe and potable water for
100,000 rural dwellers. The small-scale irrigation development component would result in an additional
3260 hectares in 19 govemorates where the average farm-size is about 3.2 ha. About 1200 farm
households are expected to directly benefit from the estimated net increase in total value of agricultural
production of TD 12.4 million annually and from the stabilization of their incomes from drought impacts.
Irrigation rehabilitation and modernization will result in improved irrigation efficiencies with a concomitant
reduction in amount of water consumed. This would result in the improvement of 9900 hectares (including
the geothermic perimeters) in 15 governorates. About 1000 farm households are expected to benefit from
-6-



improved yields and reduced O&M costs. The treated wastewater reuse component is expected to directly
benefit about 200 farm households. The creation of 17 sources of water supply to consolidate the
hydraulic infrastructure in the pastoral areas of the governorates of Medenine, Kebili, and Tataouine is
expected to benefit about 30,000 pastoralists. The flood water management component is expected to
benefit about 150 farm households. The groundwater management component, the water conservation and
environmental management component, and the capacity building component will indirectly benefit farmers
and other water users through improved data collection and management, more sustainable use of the water
resource base, and improved strategic planning in the water sector. Finally, long term fiscal impact on
government resources as a result of reduced subsidies is expected to be significant.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional and implementation arrangements would follow those established for ASIL and ASIL2. These
have proved to be fully satisfactory.
Project Coordination.  Overall project coordination among the executing units would be assured by the
DGFE (Direction Generale du Financement et des Encouragements) and a Coordinating Committee chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture and comprised of key directorates and other institutional partners (MCIIE,
MINFIN, MINECODEV, MEAT, ONAS, ANPE, SONEDE).
Project. Implementation.  The Ministry of Agriculture would be the overall executing agency for
implementation of the project, with investment preparation guidelines and sub-sector policy pursued at the
central Ministry level by the: (i) Directorate General of Rural Works (DGGR) for the irrigation and rural
water supply components; and (ii) Directorate General of Water Resources (DGRE) for the groundwater
monitoring and prospecting component. At the regional level the Regional Commissariats for Agricultural
Development (CRDA) would be responsible for sub-project identification, preparation and monitoring and
for coordination across technical units at the local level. For activities for which close collaboration
between the Ministry of Agriculture and its traditional partners (ONAS, SONEDE, AVFA, and IRESA) is
required, contractual agreements would be established along the same lines as those in effect in ASIL2.
Financial Management. The Financial Management System (FMS) in place in the MOA, is based on
principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the' pubic sector and more
specifically to governmental institutions. MOA is maintaining an accounting system based on the cash
basis and the outline of budget components according to the provisions of the Public Accounting Law.
The financial management system in place is overall satisfactory but still in a transition phase. A National
Program of Modernization and Upgrade (NPMU), has been launched in 1994 and aims at improving the
MOA's management information system by December 2002. In the meantime and in order to have in
place a complete and sound financial management system, DGFE will set up arrangements specific to
the project, as reflected in the agreed time bound action plan, by no later than September 30, 2001. These f
inancial management arrangements are detailed in annex 6 and summarized below.
Accounting, and financial reporting. Accounting and financial reporting will be assured centrally by the
Project Coordination Unit within DGFE. During the first three years (2001-2003), Technical Directorates
involved in the WSIP will act on behalf of CRDAs and would be responsible for financial management and
accounting duties for activities managed by their field representatives. They would maintain accounting
records for components under their responsibility, prepare and disseminate sub-project accounts financial
management reports. They would also ensure timely transmission of these accounts and reports to DGFE.
DGFE would be responsible for aggregating this data and submitting to the Bank, by no later than
September 30, 2001 a semi-annual project management and monitoring report. DGFE would also be
-7 -



responsible for issuing, no later than September 30, 2001 a simplified financial report and its submission to
the Bank on a quarterly basis. The financial reporting system will be reviewed in December 2002 in light
of the NPMU's achievements, in order to reconsider, after discussions with the Government, the frequency
of the submission of the integrated project management report. This is an exception as it goes beyond the
18-month period for implementation of action plans under the Bank's Project Financial Management
Manual. The reporting frequency.of six months agreed with the Tunisians is also higher that the
three-month reporting requirement for PMRs as proposed under by the Project Financial Management
Manual. However, it is considered acceptable as it would be supplemented by quarterly financial reports.
This will give the Tunisian the needed flexibility in reporting until the NPMU is in place given (i) the nature
of the project, and (ii) the multiplicity of entities involved (23 administrative regions), while at the same
time ensure that the Bank gets information it needs for proper implementation and financial monitoring.
Audits. The General Controller of Finance (CGF), as auditor acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed to
carry on an annual audit according to the International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International
Federation of Accountants, the Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, accounting, reporting and auditing
handbook, "FARAH") and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will
express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements. An annual audit report will be
made available to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The DGFE would be responsible, with inputs from all
implementing units, for monitoring of financial and physical progress on investment implementation, for
progress reporting on the execution of policy measures and development impact, for coordinating
disbursement. On these basis, DGFE would prepare agreed reports.
The above arrangements were detailed during appraisal and reconfirmed at negotiations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
During pre-appraisal, it was agreed that the proposed WSIP, if implemented as the first of two consecutive
operations, would be best suited to launch this process as it would enable the development and
implementation of successive, logically sequenced reforms and investment in line with the 10th and 11th
plans. An Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was considered at some point but the Tunisia Govermment
preferred the option of separate but consecutive loans. While some of the objectives sought after through
the WSIP (improved public sector management, greater efficiency of public sector expenditures,
institutional reforms and increased privatization of irrigation) could have been tackled by other operations,
i.e., Institutional Development Projects, Agricultural Sector Reform Projects, the comprehensive
approach proposed under the WSIP with water as the central theme was judged the best. Also, to ensure
that the WSIP does not present the shortcomings of a "classic/stand-alone" investment loan, the
Governnent intends to implement it within the framework or "Cadre de Coherence" stemming from the
WSR and endorsed in a long-term focused Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP). The LSDP was
discussed at appraisal finalized at negotiations. The LSDP would also be the basis for all future
investments and reforms in the water sector. Early in the preparation process, a series of Learning and
Innovation Loans, to be followed by stand-alone investment loans were also considered and latter
abandoned as they would have been limited in scope, could not have provided the all-encompassing
framework for long-term commitment, and would have been more time-consuming in their processing. The
WSIP, as envisaged, would help the Government break away from past practices of supply management in
the water sector in favor of a long term demand management strategy. This is a major undertaking which
-8 -



needs to be sustained over time. In the case of Tunisia, it is expected that the major reforms needed to go
beyond conventional water mobilization and establish a framework and capacity for demand management
through legislative, fiscal, economic, institutional and technical reforms would be carried out during the
span of the 10th and I 1th National Economic and Social Development Plans (2002-2006; 2007-201 1).
g-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
La"testS Suervso
Sector Issue                     Projet                    S   Raii  i
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Small-scale irrigation investment and   Second Agricultural Sector  S           S
user-group management; groundwater  Investment Loan (Ln. 4278,
exploration and monitoring       FRF246m, ongoing)
Small-scale irrigation investment and   First Agricultural Sector  S            S
user-group management; groundwater  Investment Loan (Ln. 3661,
exploration and monitoring; hill dam    $120m, ongoing)
investment and social impact
Public irrigation perimeter operations, Irrigation Management      S            S
maintenance and management       Improvement Project (Ln.
2573, $22m, completed)
Treated waste water reuse        Greater Tunis Sewerage and        S             S
Reuse Project (Ln. 4175,
FRF283m, ongoing)
Other development agencies
Small-scale irrigation rehabilitation and Small- and Medium-Scale
management                        Irrigation (KfW, ongoing)
Rural potable water investment and    Second Rural Potable Water
participatory management          Project (KfW, ongoing)
Real-time management of reservoir    Optimal Management of Water
stocks and water transfers; modeling for Resources (GTZ Project
management of reservoir water quality  92.2507.9, ongoing)
Groundwater management            Water Management in Southemr
Oases (OECF, ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 10 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed WSIP builds on lessons learned during the implementation of major projects in the water
sector (ASIL, ASIL2, Rural Water Supply and Sewerage, Greater Tunis Sewrage and Reuse Project) and
findings of strategic studies (Eau 2000, Eau 21, Etude sur le secteur de l'Eau) undertaken during the past
several years and corresponding consultations with key government staff, donors and the private sector
(WUAs and UTAP in particular). Key lessons include: (i) the need for extensive consultation on the
reform process, (ii) the need for capacity building concomitantly with investments, and (iii) progressivity in
the implementation of policy measures. As a result, planned reforms were designed after extensive
consultation with all stakeholders. Their impacts will be closely monitored so as to gradually phase them in
on the basis of a consensus and not conditionalities. Experiences with water sector projects in other
countries (Algeria, Morocco, Jordan, Cyprus, etc.) have been looked at during the project design process.
Key issues addressed during appraisal and reflected in the project design concern:
* Sustainable Groundwater Management. The appropriate management approach will vary according to
circumstances, but what is most urgent for the Government is to develop a methodology and capacity
for participatory design and implementation of groundwater management. The WSIP would pilot this
approach.
e   Water Users' Associations About 60% of existing WUAs are yet to achieve financial autonomy. The
WSIP would support WUAs in the irrigation subsector towards such financial autonomy.
*   Multiplicity of Technical Units. The structure of the Ministry of Agriculture at both the central and
regional levels fragments water management into a number of technical units. This does not facilitate
comparison across technical options for solving local water availability/management constraints to
identify the least-cost alternative. The WSIP would help re-focus technical departments more on policy
formulation and monitoring and less on investment project preparation and support the creation of a
socio-economic unit at the cabinet level at MOA.
*   Participator Management. Beneficiary involvement from the beginning for agricultural investment
projects that use water (e.g. irrigation infrastructure) is critical to the success of their activities and for
guaranteeing the durability of water systems. The Ministry of Agriculture has strengthened its
participatory methodology for small-scale irrigation creation and is already implementing this for
ASIL2 sub-projects. This methodology would be monitored during implementation through beneficiary
assessments, refined, and its application extended in the proposed WSIP for investments in artificial
recharge, rural water supply, and the rehabilitation of irrigated perimeters in particular.
*   Institutional Responsibilities for treated wastewater re-use and water quality issues in agriculture are
fragmented among ONAS/the Ministry of the Environment, the CRDAs, user associations and the
Ministry of Public Health. The WSIP would strengthen coordination mechanisms, and support
capacity building efforts in the implementing agencies.
- 11 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Tunisia is fully committed to, and engaged in, the realization of the WSIP. Its
commitmnent and ownership are reflected through: first satisfactory implementation of ongoing projects in
the water sector and its full involvement in the definition of key issues and terms of reference for
preparatory studies; second, efforts undertaken to finance a National Round Table on the water sector, and
have the main findings of the Water Sector Review discussed and internalized by all key stakeholders; and
third, the formulation of a LSDP which includes the main underpinnings of the Note d'Orientation
Strategique pour le Secteur de l'Eau (a vision statement for the water sector to be the basis for future
policy reforms and investments in the water sector). Still, two important aspects would need to be taken
into account: (i) strong consensus would need to be built around potentially difficult policy reforms,
notably when trade-offs are made in the context of intra (cereallsubsistence agriculture versus high-value
crops) and cross-sectoral (tourism versus agriculture versus industry) water management; (ii) the pace with
which WUAs are expected to achieve full financial autonomy still generates discussions, especially for
WUAs in certain less-favorable areas. This means that recommendations which have, been approved at the
technical level and ambitious proposals stemming from them would need to be endorsed at the political
level before their implementation and as they come on stream during the WSIP and beyond, notably during
WSIP2.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Value-added (for the Borrower) of Bank support is two-fold:
*   The Bank has built good experience in the Middle-East and North Africa in particular on policy
dialogue, sector work, and operations dealing with the water sector. The Bank can facilitate access to
information, lessons learned, best practices on areas 'where the Government needs it: water resources
economics, institutional management, regulatory and participatory issues.  Having experienced
difficulties in pushing some reforms in the areas of tariff systems, institutional restructuring,
decentralization, etc. in certain countries, the Bank is also best placed to realistically assess the
likelihood of progress on the above-mentioned reforms.
3   Bank's participation builds on important investments undertaken in the sector, a trusting collaboration
and therefore provides continuity for implementation of the (sought after) long term water management
strategy. Moreover, other donors active in the water sector in Tunisia are ready to intervene even
more actively in the context of a new strategic framework and are looking to the Bank to take the lead
in assisting the Government define the frarnework and help implement it.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$12.4 million; ERR = 18.1 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The correction of current distortions in water pricing will require definition of long-term objectives and
proper phasing of a revised tariff structure to be spread over WSIP and WSIP2. For agriculture in
particular, this would entail (i) defining to which extent capital cost recovery for both CRDAs and WUAs
should be sought; and (ii) pricing of water extraction from acquifers to reflect opportunity costs (a key
tenet of an integrated water resources management strategy), etc. The WSIP, as a key component of future
investments in the sector, would also promote a sector investment approach. As such, an assessment of
- 12-



MOA's overall draft public investment program in the water sector for 2000 was reviewed during the
preparation. As done for ASIL2, it will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Cost-benefit analysis will be used for the large and small-scale irrigation rehabilitation components with
criteria of a minimum ERR of 10 to 15% depending on the type of perimeter (new or rehabilitated). The
technical departments concerned already have the requisite procedures in place based on experience from
earlier Bank-financed agriculture sector projects, and these will continue to be reviewed by Bank staff for
quality control during supervision missions. Cost-benefit analysis will also be applied to the groundwater
exploration based on new procedures instituted under the ongoing ASIL2. This will include adequate
comparison with other options for mobilizing water for a given locality. Site selection for exploration and
monitoring tubewells will be based on rigorous technical evaluation that incorporates economic
justification. Exploration will be justified through demonstrating that the expected value of new water
resources is greater than the costs of exploration. Cost-effectiveness criteria would be applied to the
groundwater monitoring (piezometer drilling and instrumentation) and surface water instrumentation.
Cost-sharing options in aquifer exploration expenditure through the establishment of aquifer management
plans are also envisaged.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR =.% (see Annex 4)
The proposed WSIP would support the Government of Tunisia in its planned shift from a focus on supply
mobilization to demand management. Conditions for an evolution of the current tariff structure would be
prepared during the course of the WSIP. Work on a new tariff policy would be pursued during WSIP to
ensure readiness for implementation during WSIP2. This work would be based on the completed tariff
study (CNEA/BRL of December 1997) and the results of the WSR, and address the need for consistency of
principles across types of water use (including recharge and treated wastewater reuse), and inclusion of
provisioning of depreciation by CRDA and water users associations. Irrigation tariffs which achieve
complete recovery of O&M costs, and a progressive recovery of capital costs is also planned. Government
is now willing to discuss conditions under which user groups, where they are managing tubewell
infrastructure, could be establishing user charges that are adequate to provide, in time, for pump
replacement so as to progressively reduce the implied contingent liability for the public investment budget.
Achieving improved financial autonomy needs to be accompanied by an expansion of management
contracts between CRDAs and user groups for all perimeters, and a timetable for progressive establishment
of management contracts with existing user groups. Two of twenty-three CRDAs have experimented with
implementing parallel commercial cost accounting and there is Government support for expanding this to
CRDAs. Finally, there will be an analysis to identify positive budgetary impacts from increased revenues
from better off farmers, and reduced budget expenditures as a result of farmers paying for more O&M and
capital cost recovery.
Fiscal Impact:
The preferential irrigation tariff recently introduced during the 1998-99 season in 10 CRDAs for cereals,
forage crops, and seed production is expected to have a negative impact on public expenditures. The cost
of this subsidy for 1998-99 has been estimated at 2.1 M DT covering a total area of about 33,000 ha and a
consumption of about 47 million m3 of irrigation water (an average subsidy of 40 mmes/m3) for 7850
beneficiaries (an average subsidy of 270 DT/beneficiary). The fiscal impact of the binomial tariff is
difficult to estimate with precision since it would depend on the effect of this reform on the level of
irrigation water use. In the case where the binomial tariff would result in increased irrigation use during the
-13 -



winter season, it is reasonable to expect an improvement in the O&M cost recovery, and hence, a favorable
impact on the Government's budget. An indicative idea of these budget savings are expected to be obtained
and monitored during the course of the WSIL through in a sample of 12 pilot irrigation perimeters. The
annual revision of the irrigation tariffs in the public irrigation perimeters still under the management of the
CRDAs is expected to have a neutral fiscal impact. For those large public irrigation perimeters where
there is to be a progressive transfer to the WUAs, the impact. on the governmental budget cannot be
quantified with any degree of certainty due to the absence of analytical and commercial cost accounting
practices in the majority of the 23 CRDAs. Nevertheless, it is expected to have a significant positive
impact on the public expenditures on the O&M of existing public irrigation perimeters. For the irrigation
perimeters to be created and/or rehabilitated under the project under the management of the WUAs, the
level and the structure of the tariffs (and hence, cost recovery) are to be decided on a case by case basis
between the WUA and the Administration as a function of the specific technical parameters of the irrigation
perimeters and the capacity of the water users to pay. Any modifications concerning the water savings
policies (programme national d'economie d'eau) is bound to have an important fiscal impact. For the period
2001-2006, the annual governmental expenditures on this program is estimated at 35 million DT based on
current levels of subsidy. The impact of all these tariff reforms and the water savings policies will be
closely monitored during the course of the WSIL and reviewed at mid-term to ascertain if modifications
and/or new policies are warranted.
3. Technical:
Groundwater monitoring: appropriate technology for data capture from piezometers and transfer to a
database structure needs to be reviewed during appraisal so as to finalize investment needs. Data capture
is still largely manual, although a shift to digital equipment has begun. The proposed National information
System for water resources planned in ASIL2 would address this issue. Technical aspects of participatory
acquifer management were also confirmed by a specialist during appraisal and agreed by the Tunisians
during negotiations.
The technical and management aspects of rehabilitation/modernization of public irrigation perimeters were
reviewed by a Bank Specialist during appraisal. They are fully in line with those used under ASIL2. In
particular, the division of large perimeters into smaller, more manageable, "sectors" and their transfer to
WUAs is a promising approach that could be rapidly extended to all large scale perimeters.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Agriculture would be the main executing agency. Detailed institutional and executing
arrangements are presented in Section C: Project Description Summary.
4.2 Project management:
Project Management. Capacity for management of extemally-financed projects is adequate within the
Ministry of Agriculture. For program loans, the capacity at the CRDA level is also important, since it is
this level that identifies, prepares and implements most of the sub-projects. CRDAs' roles are evolving as
disengagement from various activities progresses and as new mandates come into effect. A diagnosis is
currently underway under the PHRD-financed Agriculture Services Study and an internal committee has
been set up by the Minister of Agriculture to make specific proposals for the future shape/mandates of
CRDAs. Implementation of the WSIP would also rely on the outcome of this initiative.
- 14 -



M&E Capacity. The DGFE already coordinates M&E adequately although capacity for impact monitoring
needs improving. DGFE would also be improving its capacity further by implementing a new management
information system, put in place with support from Bank-financed projects (ASIL2 and Natural Resource
Management Projects). The DGGR is piloting the monitoring of income impacts of public investments in
irrigation; this initiative needs support, assessment and expansion under the proposed WSIP. Evaluation
capacity is weaker, particularly thematic ex post reviews. Currently, the Ministry primarily relies on
project completion reports prepared by external financing agencies and outside consultants.
Participatory Irrigation Development. Through the DG/Genie Rural (DGGR), the Ministry of Agriculture
has progressively strengthened integration of participatory approaches in the development of new irrigation
schemes. This has accelerated with recent initiatives with the KfW in three CRDAs and with the World
Bank through ASIL in two other CRDAs. It will be important to monitor the capacity to carry out
participatory methodologies of both CRDAs and national consulting companies conducting the preparatory
studies for investments in irrigation. If shortcomings are diagnosed, identification of training and required
adjustments would be made a priority.
Water Code. An institutional mechanism is needed to translate the expected substantial changes in policy
orientation into clear legislative texts. This will take time and go beyond the WSIP implementation period.
The process of legislative revision to the water code will be consultative and dynamic, and a structured
institutional approach will be needed to guide it. Early preparatory studies have proposed a two-tiered
approach, with four technical commissions (groundwater management, pollution control, water allocations,
and demand management, and treated wastewater reuse) charged with making recommendations on policy
reform and practical implementation based on the preparatory studies, overseen by a national consultative
committee for revision of the Water Code which would coordinate and validate these propositions before
communicating them to legal specialists for translation into legislative texts. Definition of the process (e.g.
amendment or wholesale revision of the existing Water Code; progressive or one-shot revision) with respect
to the timing of the WSIP (2001-2005) will be necessary. Facilitation of the process within the context of
the WSIP is planned under the Capacity-Building Component but specific timing of covenants at this stage
could be counterproductive.
.4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Financial Management System (FMS) in place at MOA is based on guidelines and procedures defined
by the legal framework applicable to the public sector in general and Government institutions in particular.
The current system is in a transition phase. A program of modernization and upgrade was started in 1994.
and has favored the implementation of a matrix organization within MOA. One of the major benefits of
this ongoing program is that it reinforces decentralization and greater implication of CRDAs in the Project
Management. The main characteristics of this system are: (i) an accounting system based on a cash basis
and the outline of budget components; (ii) an annual budget submitted for approval to the Ministry of
Finance; (iii) a fiduciary responsibility of control of budget execution assigned to the Government's Audit
department (CGF), and the Audit Court.
Although it is globally satisfactory, the existing financial management system should be improved in order
to achieve the desired efficiency. The main improvements are in line with the national program for
modernization and upgrade (NPMU) promoted by the Prime Minister's Office. These concern: (i) the
adoption of coherent and similar financial management procedures in all the CRDAs; (ii) the harmonization
of management information systems in terms of technology solutions; (iii) the implementation of a
comprehensive analytical accounting system at the level of the 23 CRDAs; and (iv) the development of
- 15-



general training program for the staff of DGFE as well as those in involved in the project monitoring at the
central and regional levels.
The financial management arrangements proposed in the agreed time bound action plan, if successfully
implemented, during the agreed 15 month period, will help mitigate the risk linked to the shortcomings
identified at the level of MOA in the existing financial management system.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The lending instrument is a sector investment loan and therefore, the approach used during appraisal was
to conduct a specific sub-sectoral enviromnental review (irrigation and drainage/agriculture) to ensure that
adequate environmental impact assessment procedures are in place as needed for sub-project components.
The environmental assessment was carried out by an independent consultant who consulted with the staff in
the key technical units in the 'Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment, the Agence Nationale pour
la protection de 1'environnement (ANPE), and selected CRDAs. In addition, consultations were also held
with the other cofinanciers (notably, KfW and the African Development Bank). Selected field visits were
also carried out.
The results of the environmental assessment indicated that no major negative environmental impacts are
expected. In fact, the project is expected to result in enhanced environmental benefits through increased
efficiency of water use, drainage improvements which would enhance soil quality and reduce production
losses, improved management of groundwater quality and quantity, and more generally, improving
decision-making processes. The EMP incorporates many of the mitigation measures oudined in the
Environmental Management Plan developed in conjunction with the ongoing ASIL2 and will continue to be
adhered to for specific sub-projects. All individual sub-projects under the WSIP will continue to require
individual EIAs in accordance with the national law under which the ANPE was created (loi no. 88-91,
modified by loi no. 92-115). It was agreed with the Government during appraisal that the sectoral
assessment as well as any other environmental studies would be made available to the public in accordance
with the requirements of OP 4.01.
Specifically, the SEA determined that only the activities to be carried out under three project components,
the Irrigation Management component, the Groundwater Management component, and the Rural Drinking
Water Supply component, might have an effect on the environment, if any.  The SEA concluded that
potential adverse impacts in irrigation and groundwater development, if any, could be fully mitigated, if the
national environmental assessment procedures are applied systematically. With regard to Rural Water
Supply, discussions are underway with the DGGR to simultaneously program facilities for wastewater
disposal and sanitation. This will require close coordination with ONAS, in line with its recent Sector
Strategy for Rural Sanitation. For environmental reasons and for public health reasons such coordination
to avoid unnecessary pollution in rural areas is essential.
The main issues with potential environmnental implications are: water and soil quality (pertaining to
pollution, wastewater treatment etc.); groundwater management; and drainage. The small-scale irrigation
development component is not expected to have major environmental impacts. The impact on groundwater
aquifer management is expected to be minimal since the administration (DGRE) is capably monitoring
irrigation development, and only permits additional tubewell irrigation capacity to be installed where
renewable groundwater resources are not overexploited. In order to qualify for financing under the Project,
for each tubewell irrigation sub-project, the Bank will require documentation (from DGRE) that
demonstrates the water requirement of the project in relation to the current exploitation and renewable
-16-



resource status of the aquifer involved.
The monitoring of the realization of the SEA Environmental Management Plan will be carried out during
project supervision, and will be presented as part of the annual implementation report to be submitted by
the Government to the Bank for review on an ex-post basis. In addition, the Government would send for
prior review to the Bank the Environmental Management Plan (incorporating the mitigation measures
proposed in the SEA) duly approved by ANPE for 2 small-scale irrigation projects using treated waste
water.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The objective of the sectoral EA is to provide a broad overview of the environmental issues in the
irrigation/drainage sector (including groundwater) in Tunisia including those investments that are envisaged
under the WSIP. This overview takes into account the environmental polices and guidelines of the
Government of Tunisia (GOT), including its National Environmental Action Plan, as well as those of the
Bank's (O.P. 4.01). The SEA includes an EMP which incorporates many of the mitigation measures
outlined in the Enviromental Management Plan developed in conjunction with the ongoing ASIL2. In
addition, the SEA has included a component on training for the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
concerning the techniques of Environmental Impact Analysis. This component also includes a public
awareness program  for the water users association and other local authorities involved in the
implementation of the project.
The SEA has enlarged the scope of the Water Conservation and Environmental Protection component. It
has recommended that two studies concerning soil quality be launched as soon as possible to obtain a
systematic evaluation of the control measures for salinization in the irrigation perimeters as well as of other
forms of soil degradation due to land leveling, excavation, and formation of embankment associated with
the creation of new irrigation perimeters. In addition, five other studies to address water quality issues
have been proposed: inventory of sources of pollution complementing the information already obtained for
industrial sources from the METAP study and the Tunis-West Project; Establishment of a national network
to monitor and control water quality; elaboration of a National Master Plan for addressing water pollution;
promotion of treated wastewater reuse in irrigation and aquifer recharge; and clarification of the role of
Government agencies responsible for management of water pollution, and establishment of a National
Information System for Water Resources (SINEAU). In addition, for the rehabilitation of public irrigation
in the north in the Medjerda watershed (to be financed by KfW), a regional EA has been recommended.
Agreement was reached with the Government on all these priority studies, and they have accordingly been
costed into the project.
The proposed EMP and associated studies are considered adequate. They will, for the first time, bring
about a close collaboration between the Ministries of Environment and Agriculture in the domain of water
resources management. The SEA found that the project complies fully with the Bank's safeguard policies.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 14, 2000
The final SEA was reviewed during negotiations the week of May 2-5, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation' that were used and which groups were consulted?
Since this is an SEA, the preliminary screening was carried out through consultations with relevant
- 17-



Ministries and technical units, selected field visits and consultations with the CRDAs. For all individual
sub-projects requiring an EIA, stakeholders will be consulted by the firm that carries out the study.
The main elements of the SEA were discussed with the Government and agreed upon. In addition, the
Government agreed to the public disclosure guidelines as required by the Bank's O.P 4.01.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Several key studies have been designed and costed into the project design to monitor and evaluate aspects
pertaining to soil and water quality. In addition, most of the indicators include several indicators that bear a
direct and/or indirect environmental impact including, inter alia, groundwater use as a percentage of
recharge; efficiency improvement and water conservation mechanisms in place; adoption of improved
irrigation methods; percentage of water logged areas reduced; major sources of pollution are identified on a
selective "hot spots" basis and; monitoring network (including warning system) to control water quality is
in place (See Annex 1).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Overall, the project is not expected to have negative social impacts. Nevertheless, it has been agreed with
the Government that for each component/reform under the WSIP where there could be potential social
impacts (some of which are listed below), a listing of these potential impacts would be established, and, if
required, appropriate mitigation measures would be costed and financed under the WSIP. To this end, a
social review for sub-projects and/or activities with potential social impacts was carried out during
appraisal by a local social scientist under the overall guidance of the MNA Social Unit.
Issues:
Groundwater management.   The project proposes to pilot participatory management of shallow
groundwater resources. The commitment of groundwater users is uncertain in cases where the resource to
be jointly managed is not visible, free riders are hard to control and the physical behavior of the resource is
not always known with certainty.
Irrigation tariff policy and the poor. Water tariff analysis done by the DGGR on farm budget impacts of
options for future irrigation tariff policy shows that some irrigation perimeters and farm sizes in Tunisia
could be vulnerable to substantial income losses. In these perimeters, land, location and irrigation
infrastructure constraints limit the scope for adjustment. The social aspects of these identifiable aspects
will require different treatment from the irrigation sector as a whole. The farm budgets in selected CRDAs
will be monitored during the course of the project.
Irrigation using treated waste water. Two social aspects will be addressed in this case: (i) health
management and monitoring of farm workers that may have contact with the irrigation water; and (ii)
surveying of public acceptance on markets of-agricultural products irrigated with treated waste water, and
design of information campaigns as needed.
The principal social development outcomes are expected to be: increased rural incomes from agricultural
sources, and hence, improved social well-being; enhanced access to potable water resulting in reduced time
spent by women on collecting water thus contributing to the gradual elimination of the negative gender
implications in the socialization of the younger generation; greater attention to the social aspects of
agricultural development projects in the Ministry of Agriculture through adequate staffing of the
- 18 -



socio-economic unit with new skills (water economics, planning, legislation, participatory processes, etc.);
strengthening of WUAs through the development and implementation of specific capacity building
programs.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Investments in new/rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure, would only be considered for the public budget if
initiated by official request from beneficiaries. Draft socio-economic and technical preparatory studies
would be presented to, and verified by, beneficiaries before finalization of proposals. The process of
establishing user groups would begin with socio-economic preparatory studies, and the groups' officers,
elected, would co-sign as part of provisional reception of irrigation works as done in ASIL2. Assurances to
this effect were obtained from Government during appraisal.
For farm  households implementing shallow  aquifer management plans, beneficiaries would fully
collaborate with the Administration in identifying and implementing sustainable groundwater withdrawals,
including allocations, monitoring, and enforcement mechanisms.
Concerning irrigation user group associations, achieving financial. autonomy would entail progressively
higher water charges to group members, but would be accompanied by a negotiated management contract
between the group and the Administration that would clearly identify each party's responsibilities and
rights.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N.A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As part of the social review, several recommendations have been made to the Government concerning key
social aspects in the components of groundwater management, rehabilitation of the geothermic perimeters,
treated wastewater reuse in irrigation, participatory groundwater management, and strengthening of water
users associations which will be adhered to during project implementation. The government has agreed to
the establishment of a socio-economic unit within the Ministry of Agriculture which will ensure that social
development outcomes are closely monitored in this project as well as future projects.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will ensure that a social development specialist is part of the supervision team to monitor
performance of in terms of the social development outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
POlicy                                     Applicability    -
Environmental Assessment OP 4.01 BP 4.01 GP 4.01                 Yes [3No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04 BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    O Yes 1 No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436')                                    E Yes Z No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      E Yes 1 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples 0D.p 4.20                                   El Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (01 4.30)                             OL Yes 1 No
- 19-



D Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                                O Yes 1 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    O Yes (Z No
O Projects in Dis uted Areas OP 7.60 BP 7.60. GP 7.60)                 Yes 1X No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See section 5.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability would be addressed at three different levels:
Water resource use: As the main thrust of the WSIP is to shift emphasis from a water mobilization
strategy to a long term demand management strategy, the WSIP is expected to significantly contribute to
implementing reforms and financing investments that would be conducive to increased sustainability of
water resource use.
Irrigation:
(i) involving beneficiaries in validating planning assumptions about future farm activities to ensure
that these are realistic and sufficient to permit farmers to pay water charges to local
management groups that will be contractually responsible for operations and maintenance;
(ii) improving financial autonomy of irrigation user groups, and ensuring that these implement
water charges that are sufficient to provide for replacement of irrigation equipment, without
further subsidies from Government;
(iii) defining future tariff policy for public delivery of irrigation water, going beyond O&M
recovery to include partial capital cost recovery, and thereby encouraging water savings in
agricultural uses; and
(iv) introducing piloting of water use rights for irrigation water user groups and thereby increasing
incentives for efficient use and local market development.
Groundwater resource use:
(i) better identification of the resource through exploration, monitoring, and evaluation (including
modeling);
(ii) strengthening of quality and quantity monitoring;
(iii) integration of surface and groundwater monitoring;
(iv) computer data storage and dissemination to stakeholders
(v) developing methodologies for the monitoring of water extraction from shallow aquifers; and
(vi) piloting, for shallow aquifers, user-defined and implemented sustainable management plans.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Ratingq          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to the                M         -Define policy benchmarks to condition
implementation of a strategy for water                investment support; national consultative
demand management wavers, and                         workshop carried out to reinforce cominitment
opposition to tariff reform from various              -Letter of Sector Development Policy adopted
interest groups                                       -All stakeholders consulted prior to
implementation of tariff reform during WSIL
implementation
Financial autonomy for the WUAs             M         -Define benchmarks (eligibility criteria and
remains fragile                                       minimum economic rate of returns or
benefit/cost ratio) as conditions for investment
support
- Specific capacity-building programs for
WUAs
Resistance to staff changes and transfer of  M        -Define training and reconversion program prior
responsibilities                                      to launching institutional reforms
From Components to Outputs
Implementation delays                       M         -Program coordination to be carried out by
DGFE with realistic, time-bound targets
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
- Implementation Manual has been sent to the Bank
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Accounts and Audits
- 21 -



* The Government will assure that the annual audit reports, with an opinion on the statements of
expenditure used for certain disbursements and on the special account, are sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year of the Borrower.
* The Borrower will open and manage a special account in Euros.
Management Aspects
*  The Borrower will take all necessary steps to assure that a Coordination Committee for overall
management of the project is established and functional no later than December 31, 2000.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
*  The Borrower will prepare and fumish for the Bank's review and comments not later than March 31
and September in each Fiscal Year, a report, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, on the progress
achieved during the preceding six months in the financial and physical implementation of the project,
and on performance and impact indicators.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Cl 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
CI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Madani M. Tall                   Doris Koehn                       Christi  Delvoie
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/D  ector
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
-Key Performance
-Hierarchy of   ectives       I:lndic*a:tos           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
- Environmental management - Improved surface and     - DGRE statistics          - Government's commitment
and natural resource       groundwater management                                to policy reforms to promote a
conservation through                                                             water demand management
sustainable use of the water   - Groundwater use as a  - DGETH, DGGR reports    strategy does not falter.
resource base              percentage of recharge
- Sustainable use of       - DGRE reports
groundwater resources
- Rural poverty alleviation    - Rural incomes from   - DGGR and DGPDIA reports - Stable sectoral,
through increased farm     agricultural sources                                  macroeconomic and political
productivity and rural income                                                    conditions prevail.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
- To promote effective     - Increased agricultural yields; - Ministry of Agriculture  - Institutions in the water
integrated water resource                                                        sector, including WUAs are
management so as to improve - Additional population with                         responsive to the new
the productivity of agriculture access to safe and clean water - Ministry of Agriculture  opportunities provided by the
and access to safe water in   (100,000 by end of WSIP);   reports/DGGR           project
rural areas.
- Bank SPN reports
Sector institutions are    - New institutional        - Ministry of Agriculture  - Political support and
strengthened               arrangements for the water   - Bank SPN reports       commitment obtained from
sector in place                                       stakeholders at national and
local levels
- To promote conservation of  - Efficiency improvement and - Ministry of Agriculture
water resources and protection water conservation     - Bank SPN reports
of the environment         mechanisms in place
- Sustainability of water use
-23 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Through Irrigation                                                              - Moderate physical and
Management:                                                                        climatic crop risks;
Stable producer price and
la. Agricultural production in - Number of ha rehabilitated   - DGGR/CRDAs; DGPA  non-price production
project areas benefiting from   under use.                                        incentives;
small-scale irrigation is  - Availability of water                                 Extension advice and
increased                  resources.                                              agricultural inputs are
- Adoption of improved                                 available in a timely manner.
irrigation methods.
- Tons of output per unit of
irrigated land
lb. Sustainability of                                  - DGGR/CRDAs               - Government overcomes
investments in small-scale and - Number of operational water                      reluctance to include partial
large-scale irrigation systems  user associations (WUAs) in                       recovery of capital costs from
is improved                the small-scale irrigation                             water users associations;
perimeters by start of                                 Operation of the
operation;                                             multidisciplinary mobile team
- O&M cost recovery                                   to train local MOA units is
increased;                                             successfully completed.
- Provisioning for (partial)
capital cost recovery increased
- Contribution to investments  - DGGR
lc. Improved irrigation    increased.
efficiency
- Decrease in water
consumption in areas
rehabilitated;
- % of water logged areas
reduced
-24 -



2. Through Groundwater
Management:
2a. Improved qualitative and  - Groundwater usage brought - DGRE statistics     - Government is committed to
quantitative inventories of    to sustainable levels                            maintaining adequate
groundwater resources     - Additional renewable                                budgetary resources for data
2b. Improved capacity to  groundwater resources                                 collection, analysis, and
monitor groundwater       identified.                                           management.
resources                 - Systematic monitoring of the
piezometric network.
- Systematic monitoring and
corrective actions for intrusion
2c. Improved data         of salt in water table and soil.
management capacity       - Development of efficient,
user-friendly, standard central
and regional data
management systems
(SINEAU)
- Development of an
integrated alarm system for
salinization of soils and
groundwater level and quality
3. Through Water
Conservation and Protection                          - DGETH; GTZ reports
of the Environment:
3a. Surface and groundwater  - Establishment of real-time
water management systems   monitoring of water supplies
are upgraded and functional  (flows and reservoir storage)
and demand in the major
irrigation sectors based on a
improved data collection and
transmission system;
- Use of appropriate
technology;
- Use of metering system.
3b. Water resource base is    - Major sources of pollution    Ministry of Environment,  - Environmental education
protected and water quality   are identified on a selective   ANPE reports      programs and sensitization
improved through significant "hot spots" basis       - SPN reports              efforts are pursued
reduction in water pollution   - Monitoring network  - DGRE
(including warning system) to
control water quality is in
place
- 25 -



3c. Treated Waste Water   - Inventory of critical    - ONAS reports            - Level of social acceptance is
(TWW) reuse activities are   sectors/activities using TWW   - DGGR reports     improved and progress in
promoted                  - Study for the development of - SPN reports         research on TWW is on par
TWW distribution network                             with growing demand for it
- Improvement in pilot
irrigated schemes using TWW                          -Legislation is suitably revised
and development of a      - DGGR
long-term plan for reuse of
TWW in irrigated perimeters
- Water quantity mobilized
4. Through Rural Water
Supply:
4a. Access to safe and potable - number of new WUAs for   - DGGR reports       - Complementarity with
water is improved for rural   potable water created                            ongoing water supply projects
communities                                                                    (KfW, JBIC, 26-26, fonds
national de solidarit6 is
4b. National coverage of  - number of water points                             guaranteed
population with access to
potable water is improved
5. Through Institutional
Strengthening and
Capacity-Building:
5a. Public and private water  - Adequate staffing with new   - Ministry of Agriculture  - Political backing is given to
institutions are strengthened  skills. (water economics,  - SPN and progress reports   staff redeployement,
planning, legislation,                              reconversion and training
participatory processes, etc.)                       plans
geared to demand
management and long term
strategic planning,
- Renewed emphasis on
training in geology,
hydrology, hydrogeology, etc.
- Socio-Economic Unit in
place
- Specific program for W-UAs
developed and implemented
- 26 -



:-:Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators-         Monitoring & -valuation    Critical AssUumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Irrigation Management.  $68.2.OM - rate of physical   - DGGR and CRDAs       - Creation of WUAs takes
la. Small-scale irrigation  and financial implementation;                       place in a timely manner
development               number of irrigation                                  - Absence of major
perimeters                                           environmental constraints
rehabilitated/modernized; area
added; cropping intensity
- DGGR
lb. Irrigation rehabilitation
large-scale perimeters) and    $ 44.0 M - rate of physical   - DGGR; annual reports
management reform.        and financial implementation;
area rehabilitated
2. Groundwater
MaGrounagment- Timely procurement
Management.               $7.7 M - rate of physical and                         Availability of counterpart
moe lian                  financial implementation;                             funds assured
moaelimg                  $3.0 M - rate of physical and                         - Implementation occurs as
financial implementation;                            scheduled
2c. Exploration and       $ 70.OM - exploration: rate of
physical and financial
monitoring                implementation; number of
prospecting tubewells; linear
depth of exploration; ratio of
negative wells to total number
of (positive and negative)
wells.
monitoring: rate of physical
and financial implementation;
number of monitoring wells
created and equipped
3. Water Conservation and
Environmental Protection.
3a. Water Instrumentation    $1.OM - rate of physical and  - DGETH
financial implementation
3b. Protection of water   $3.4 M - rate of physical and  - Ministry of environment,    - Adequate coordination
resource base and pollution   financial implementation  ANPE, ONAS, IRESA,and   between agencies
mitigation program                                   DGRE
3c. Promotion of treated  $0.5 M - rate of physical and  - ONAS, DGGR           - Demand for TWW
wastewater reuse activities    financial implementation                         forthcoming from potential
users
4; Rural Water Supply     $51.9 M - rate of physical    - DGGR                  - WUAs in place and
irnplementation                                      functional
- 27 -



5. Institutional          $8.3 M - rate of physical and  - Overall coordination by
Strengthening and         financial implementation   DGFE with inputs from other
Capacity-building. (Studies,                         departments
Support to reforms, technical
assistance, and training)
- 28 -



Annex 2: Project Description
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$112.20 million
Irrigation Management. Under this component, the project would finance (i) the creation of 56 small,
tubewell-based, irrigation perimeters covering about 3,000 ha; (ii) the creation of eight pilot irrigated
perimeters on about 580 ha using Treated Waste Water; (iii) the modernization and rehabilitation of 40
(small to medium size) existing perimeters covering 7,800 ha; (iv) the rehabilitation of 14 perimeters of
about 2100 ha irrigated with hot "geothermal" underground water; (v) drainage installations on about 3,700
ha of irrigated perimeters; (vi) the electrification of water sources and tubewells (for potable water and/or
irrigation) with a view to reducing energy and maintenance costs; (vii) the creation of 17 water points in the
southem arid zone; (viii) the creation of 25 deep tubewells for irrigation purposes; (ix) works toward flood
water management; and (x) research activities to support irrigation and drainage management. In parallel
to activities planned under this component with Bank financing, a major modernization effort concerning
the Medjerda Valley would be undertaken with KfW financing. A feasibility study covering 5,536 ha of
27,000 ha would be carried out with a view to modernizing irrigation infrastructure, during a first phase
operation, on about 3,000 ha of priority perimeters. Progress on the modernization of the Medjerda would
be closely monitored during the WSIP as lessons learned could help dictate strategic choices for the
rehabilitation and/or modernization of similar large scale perimeters in the future, notably in the context of
WSIP2.
For all investments in large and small scale irrigation, a number of selection criteria would be applied.
Sub-projects for individual or groups of tubewells and related irrigation infrastructure with a cost not
exceeding 500,000 TD, in aggregate would be subject to a simplified procedure for cost-benefit analysis
(format agreed during AS1L and being implemented in ASIL2) and would need to demonstrate a
benefit-cost ratio greater than 1.0. Sub-projects with an estimated total of more than 500,000 TD would be
subject to a feasibility study with a complete cost-benefit analysis and would need to have an ERR of at
least 10% for newly-established perimeters and 15% for rehabilitated or modernized perimeters to be
eligible for Bank-financing. For irrigated perimeters using TWW, the feasibility study would also include
an environmental analysis, including, if needed, a mitigation plan to be integrated and costed in the
sub-project. For a project to be selected, it also needs to be demonstrated on the basis of analysis by the
Directorate General of Water Resources (DGRE) that the acquifer source of water for the project is not
overdrafted. Finally, for all investments in large and small scale irrigation, WUAs would need to be in
place and functional prior to the start of the corresponding sub-project. These WUAs would be fully
implicated in the preliminary studies and participate in the supervision of works. Management contracts,
highlighting the roles and responsibilities (including cost-sharing arrangements) of each party (CRDAs and
WUAs) would be used.
Project Component 2 - US$80.70 million
Groundwater Management. Under this component, the project would facilitate (i) the drilling of
exploratory wells and piezometers, (ii) the protection and rehabilitation of existing wells and piezometers,
(iii) the development of infrastructure for artificial groundwater recharge from available surface water; (iv)
research to support groundwater management; and (v) the financing of a number of experimental/research
projects which are destined to strengthen collaboration. between, and joint-implementation by, several
directorates of the Ministry of agriculture and other entities, bring coherence to the way data is collected
and analyzed, and organize data access and use for decision-making at the regional and central levels. In
particular, the WSIP would finance over 5 years 310 exploratory wells (over 105,000 linear meters) and
- 29 -



about 610 new piezometers and the rehabilitation of 125 existing piezometers. Some of these wells could
be put to productive use if they were to be "positive". Along the lines of integrated management of both
surface and groundwater resources, artificial recharge activities would be developed from conventional
sources, and the overall capacity to monitor groundwater would be strengthened through the establishment
of a comprehensive National Information System for Water Resources and the optimization of the existing
monitoring networks (reseaux de suivi de la ressource en eau: reseau piezometrique et reseau de suivi des
eaux de surface, reseau qualite, etc.).  Another key part of this component would be the piloting of
participatory management approaches for groundwater to assess future implications for decentralization,
cost-sharing, water rights, and surveillance/control operations.
For exploration wells, sites would be selected on the basis of technical prospecting studies and economic
parameters defined in the context of ASIL2. The implication of the private sector in drilling activities and
hydrogeological prospecting would build on efforts already undertaken in the context of ASIL2.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.90 million
Water Conservation and Environmental Protection. Under this component, the project would center on
two key activities, namely (i) the monitoring of water resources (quality and quantity); and (ii) the
protection of the water resource base and soils, particularly in irrigated areas. A number of entities
(Agriculture, Environment, ONAS, ANPE, SONEDE, etc.) are expected to play a major role in the
implementation of these activities. The WSIP will facilitate such collaboration and help define a number of
sub-projets and research activities by (i) updating the inventory of key sources of pollution ("hot spots")
and setting up a network for water quality monitoring; (ii) financing information, educational and
awareness campaigns; and (iii) working on new institutional arrangements for the management of water
pollution issues. Investments, research work, and policy reforms stemming from this component would, if
appropriate, be funded by grants and other consessional funds.
Project Component 4 - US$51.90 million
Rural Water Supply. The Rural Water Supply component will consist of providing potable water to
about 100,000 rural dwellers. This component would be implemented over three years (2001, 2003) as
part of the Government's overall strategy to increase access to safe, drinking water from about 78% of
rural areas to about 90% by the end of the 10th plan in 2006. Eligibility criteria for the selection of sites
were reconfirmed with the Government during appraisal. They are in line with the national rural water
strategy and include at least (i) a minimal target population to be served, (ii) a cost ceiling for the
investment (i.e., less than 600 TND per person); and (iii) the involvement of WUAs from the onset. In this
regard, close interface would be established with ongoing water supply projects funded by the Japanese
Cooperation (JBIC) and KfW in particular to ensure complementarity and avoid sending conflicting policy
signals to the Tunisian Government and the rural population.
Project Component 5 - US$8.30 million
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity-building. As the water sector is shifting from supply to
demand management, new capacity and skills are required during the implementation of WSIP and WSIP2.
In this regard, the component would facilitate the development of new skills (water economics, information
systems, client orientation and marketing, participatory management, maintenance, etc.), mostly oriented
toward planning and demand management in the water sector while strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's capacity in areas which will always remain under its aegis, namely regulation, control, and
strategic planning. The WSIP would also facilitate the creation of a Socio-Economic Unit in MOA, which
could later on evolve into an inter-sectoral think-tank/planning unit as water issues become more and more
cross-sectoral, and as trade-offs become more prevalent. An important capacity-building effort would also
be financed for the benefit of WUAs, NGOs, and private entrepreneurs in the water sector. This capacity
- 30 -



building effort would be supplemented by an active communication program for water conservation and the'
need for demand management. A communication program would also be developed and implemented to
support the new strategic vision for the water sector.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Management                                    54.00         46.00       100.00
Groundwater Management                                   42.00         32.40        74.40
Water Conservation & Environmental Protection             2.50          1.90         4.40
Rural Water Supply                                       28.50         18.70        47.20
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity-Building         3.20          4.30         7.50
Total Baseline Cost                                     130.20        103.30       233.50
Physical Contingencies                                   6.50          5.00        11.50
Price Contingencies                                      8.30          4.70        13.00
Total Project Costs            145.00        113.00       258.00
Front-end fee                    0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required             145.00       113.00        258.00
Local    F%oreign-ota
Goods                                                       6.50         45.00         51.50
Works                                                     127.00         59.00        186.00
Services                                                    5.50          7.00         12.50
Training                                                    6.00          2.00          8.00
Total Project Costs    145.00        113.00       258.00
Front-end fee                    0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required    145.00        113.00        258.00
Figures may not add due to rounding.
- 32 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The Water Sector Investment Project (2001-2005) would be the first of two consecutive loans, in line with
the X and XI Plans, for a sub-set of investment activities in irrigation management, groundwater
prospecting and monitoring, rural water supply, water conservation and environmental protection, and
institutional strengthening and capacity building. Implementation of key reforms would thus be done in two
stages. Since this is a sector investment loan to assist the Ministry of Agriculture's water sector investment
program commencing in 2001, there is at this stage of preparation some detail for the 2001 program but
only the broad envelope of activities for the subsequent years. This makes it difficult to conduct a
comprehensive cost benefit analysis, although indicative rates of return are presented for some of the key
investment components accounting for over 70 percent of total project costs. The Water Sector Study
completed in April 1999, is the basis for the proposed project and all future investments in the sector in
accordance with the new strategy of participatory demand management.
Specific sub-projects for irrigation systems to be financed by the Loan will be subjected to economic
selection criteria whose application has already been tested under the ongoing ASIL and ASIL2. Direct
beneficiaries would be farmers in small-scale irrigation systems and the rehabilitated large-scale irrigation
perimeters who would gain in terms of increased production and income through increased yields, cropping
intensities and a shift to high valued crops. In addition, the "minimum impact approach" was applied to
evaluate the economic feasibility of the project's water resources management component (Cummings, et
al., 1996; Mexico Water Resources Project, 1996; Brazil Bahia Water Resources Management Project,
1998; and Brazil Proagua Project, 1998). A qualitative analysis of the benefits of some of the components
is also presented where appropriate.
The rural water supply component will increase the percentage of rural population served nation-wide
from 78% currently to 90% by the end of the project. Better access to safe, accessible, and adequate water
supply is expected to reduce the cost of water to beneficiary households in terms of time, energy, money.
Further, improved sanitation and hygiene practices will have a positive direct impact on health and
productivity. These effects would be especially beneficial to women and children. Social considerations are
paramount in the Government's rural water supply strategy. The justification for the house connection rests
on the recognized benefits of service in the home versus collecting water from standpipes and, in the rural
areas, on the basic need for safe water. This is also noted in the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the
Tunisia National Rural Water Supply Project (1994).
The most significant direct benefit of the drainage improvement component would be to farmers in the
form of increased efficiency of service delivery, improved availability of irrigation and drainage supplies,
and concomitant reduced costs. Principal short-term benefits will come from physical drainage and
improvements in irrigation practices, and better O&M resulting in more effective drainage which will result
in increased environmental benefits and increased output of agricultural produce. Improved drainage would
also enhance sustainability of the land and water resource base through reducing the groundwater table and
reducing waterlogging and soil salinity leading to significant improvement in crop yields, both qualitatively
and quantitatively. Benefits would also ensue from the avoidance of future production losses which would
result if groundwater and salinity problems were to persist.
- 33 -



The institutional strengthening and capacity-building component would result in better coordination of
water resources planning and implementation among the multiple technical units involved in water
resources management (WRM) that would yield significant economic benefits nationwide. An integrated
approach to WRM would foster resource consolidation and complementarity, and improved public
investments. Improved coordination would lead to more efficient project design and implementation,
reduced cost overruns, and more efficient use of existing infrastructure. By supporting the upgrading and
further development of a modem hydrological information network, more efficient water use would be
promoted, since both availability and use would be more closely monitored. The change in strategy from
new water resources development to demand management will eventually result in the establishment and
improved collection of water tariffs which would promote more rational water use. There would be less
pressure on water supply development, and a greater share of the economic cost of water consumed/used
would gradually be borne by consumers/users. Through capacity building efforts of the WUAs, NGOs, and
private entrepreneurs in the water sector, a more discerning and environment-conscious management of
water resources would be achieved, assuring the long-term sustainability of the resource base.
Treated wastewater reuse activities would result in significant economic, agronomic, and environmental
benefits. Besides increased agricultural productivity, such controlled land application reduces, through two
natural processes, the amount of chemical and organic contaminants entering surface water and
groundwater. First, the crops absorb the substances as nutrients and prevent them from entering the runoff
or groundwater. Second, the soil filters out pathogenic organisms and trace elements as the water percolates
downward. Inrigation with treated wastewater has the associated economic benefit of reduced financial
investments for new sources of potable water by substituting wastewater for high-quality irrigation water.
The presence of valuable nutrients in the treated wastewater can reduce fertilizer use and thereby improve
farmers' net incomes.
The water conservation and environmental protection component would result in significant long-term
benefits through improved monitoring, evaluation and management of aquifers, reduction in water
pollution, and the protection of the water resource base. Stakeholder involvement in water resources
management would be enhanced through public education programs on the value of water resources and the
importance of water conservation through rational use and control of water pollutants. In the context of the
WSIP, a methodology for participatory design and implementation of groundwater management would be
piloted to transfer more responsibility to farmers insofar as sustainable aquifer management is concerned.
Evaluation Criteria for Water Sector Investments:
Irrigation:  For tubewell irrigation, sub-project selection criteria for individual or groups of
tubewells and related irrigation infrastructure with a cost exceeding TD5,000/ha but less than TD 500,000
in aggregate would be subject to a simplified procedure for cost-benefit analysis and would need to
demonstrate a benefit cost ratio greater than 1.0. Sub-projects with an estimated total cost of more than TD
500,000 would be subject to a feasibility study with a complete cost-benefit analysis and would need to
have an ERR of a minimum of 10% to receive Loan finance. Sub-projects costing less than TD5,000/ha
would not be subject to an economic analysis to be eligible for financing. Periodic "audits" of the economic
analyses for the smaller sub-projects and reviews of all larger sub-projects under the ongoing ASIL and
ASIL2 have proved to be successful. For small-scale, tubewell-based irrigation investments, projects have
achieved rates of return of 15-21%. Finally, for all investments in large-scale and small-scale irrigation, the
water users' associations (WUAs) would need to be in place and functional prior to the start of the
corresponding sub-project. All the above criteria would also apply to the 8 irrigation perimeters (580 ha) to
be irrigated with treated wastewater.
- 34 -



Rural Water Supply:  Eligibility criteria for the selection of sites would include, at a minimum:
(i) a minimal target population to be served; (ii) a cost ceiling for the investment; and (iii) full involvement
of the WUAs from the outset. These criteria will be agreed with the Government during appraisal. The
WUAs would meet all the O&M costs, and progressively, the replacement costs.
Drainage/rehabilitation of existing perimeters: All sub-projects would be subject to a feasibility
study and would need to demonstrate a minimum ERR of 15% to be eligible for Bank-financing.
Deep tubewell exploration:   For exploration wells, sites would be selected on the basis of
technical prospecting studies and economic criteria. These criteria include a comparison of alternative
sources and uses of water and a simple cost-benefit analysis for irrigation perimeters established and tested
under the ongoing ASIL2.
Bank Experience and Economic Evidence:   The evidence, derived from direct Bank experience and
the economic literature, convincingly demonstrates that the economic gains to be realized from improved
water resources management more than justify the associated costs. Table 1 summarizes the project
component's main activities, the nature of their economic impact, and an estimation of the magnitude of
these impacts.
Table 1. Water Resources Management Component: Activities, Expected Impacts and Magnitude
Impact                 Value                                Supporting Evidence
Source                              Level
Better WRM
Coordination
Increased benefits    High                    Ganges Basin (Rogers, 1993)   20% increase
Reduced investment     High                   Brazil - Proagua Project &
costs                                         Bahia WRM Project      20% - 32% savings
Reduction/elimination    High                 Bank's experience     15% cost overruns
of cost overruns
Improved Water
Demand Management
Better control of water   High               India; Singh 1983      25%-35% increased
resource use
irrigation efficiency
-35-



.2' ~  ~ ..  ,    I                                               ,    it
Better control of water   Medium-High         Bhatia, et al 1994     26% decrease through
resource use through                                                targeted educational
education                                                           campaigns for high
volume users
Increased user         High                   De los Reyes et al, 1989   50%-75% incr. ag.
participation in water                        productivity
resources management                                                  100% incr. in irrig.
area
Promotion of WUAs      High,                  Subramanian, 97   25%-30% decr. in cost of
irrig. supplies
Minimum Impact Approach: The fundamental shift in water resources development - a shift from
supply mobilization to improved management as the means for solving water needs has given rise to a "new
generation" of water-related projects where the aim is to enhance and modernize a country's capacity to
collect, process, and use the most critically important input to water management: information. These "new
generation" projects, of which WSIP has joined the ranks, are characterized by significant investment data
collection and information processing, use of information for decision making, and investment in
institutional development and capacity building. The minimum impact approach as elaborated in
Cummings, et al 1996 draws on the intuition of new options of investment under uncertainty and evaluates
the economic feasibility of a project on the basis of responses to two related questions: What is the
minimum impact on measurable social values attributable to the project that would be required for its
feasibility (a B/C ratio of unity); and does there exist a reasonable basis for expecting such minimum
impacts ? This approach has been used in the Bank's recent portfolio of "new generation" projects, notably,
the Mexico Water Resources Project, 1996; Bahia Water Resources Management Project, 1997; and
Brazil Proagua Project, 1998 to assess the economic feasibility of the water resources management
components.
In the WSIP, the impact of improved data collection and information management can be expected to
directly impact social welfare through a combination of such things as increasing agricultural production
(via increased efficiency of water use), expanding opportunities for industrial growth (via, as one example,
reallocating water for municipal and industrial uses), ameliorating or eliminating the mining of exhaustible
natural resources thereby promoting sustainable growth, reducing risks and costs associated with dam
safety, floods, and drought, improving environmental quality, and more generally, improving
decision-making processes. Specifically, the water resources management components would: (i) rationalize
water infrastructure investment decision-making (through better coordination and planning, as well as
demand management), which, in turn, would have an impact on public expenditures in the water sector; (ii)
positively affect water demand, by progressive implementation of tariff reform; and (iii) improve existing
O&M of existing and new water infrastructure.
The table below provides estimates of annualized benefits and costs of some of the activities in the water
sector that would be affected by the project, and where feasible, their estimated economic impacts.
Estimated relevant total values (using conservative assumptions) total US$1065 million. Annualized costs
of the water resources management component over the life of the project are estimated at US$3.5 million.
Social costs are assumed equal to economic costs. Thus, the implied value of the minimum impact to justify
the investment would be equivalent to 0.3 percent of the social value of the water sector. This means that
the economic feasibility of the water resources management component would require that it affects (either
- 36 -



by increasing benefits or decreasing costs) the current levels of water-sector related benefits/costs by an
aggregate equivalent to 0.3 percent of the social values involved. Even when applying a partial list of
conservatively estimated benefits, the annualized possible benefits stemming from the WRM-type
components would be about US$30 million yielding a benefit-cost ratio greater han 8.
Table 2.     Impact of the Economic Values of the Water Sector (US$miflion)
Economic Values       Present Level                        Estimated Impact
(Benefits and Costs)
Type                           Annual
Level
Public investments in    183                10% efficiency gain                   18.3
water resources
development
Costs overruns on     22                    10% reduction                        2.2
water related
investments
Value of irrigated    850                   +1% increase                         8.5
agricultural production
Energy and O&M        9                     10% reduction through improved
costs                                       electrification                      0.9
Costs of groundwater    1                   10% reduction through improved
mining                                      groundwater management               0.1
Total value           1065                                                      30.0
Cost-effectiveness analvsis for deep tubewell exploration:
The following methodology was used to determine, ex post, the cost-effectiveness of the deep
exploratory tubewells investments: between 1990 and 1995, exploration activities by the DGRE resulted in
the estimated annual sustainable aquifer yield in Tunisia increasing by 40 million m, of which 80% was
utilized in irrigated agriculture and 20% for urban and rural potable water supply. Based on this increased
availability of water, returns to three tepresentative cropping pattems Ml, M2 and M3) for a
with-project" (irrigated agriculture) were analyzed and compared to a typical "without-project" cropping
pattern (rainfed agriculture) using detailed farm budgets and cost of cultivation data. Ml represents the
least-value added cropping pattern, with a irrigated forage and cereals (88%), legumes (15%) and
high-value vegetables (10%). M3 represents the highest-value added with legumes (80%) and high-value
peppers (50%) with M2 representing an average value-added cropping pattern. Costs included in the
analysis are the investment costs of the deep exploratory tubewells, the irrigation development costs (at `TD
7000/ha. based on an average of recently completed projects in six different governorates), O&M costs,
and the replacement cost of the pump every seven years. All financial costs and prices were converted to
- 37 -



economic prices using specific conversion factors. A stream of net benefits was computed and its economic
rate of return computed using the assumptions listed below. This represents the ex post rate of return to
investments in deep exploratory tubewells, and the value-added from the additional renewable groundwater
resources discovered.
Main Assumptions:
I. All additional water is of reasonable quality and is wholly allocated to agricultural
production.
2. Prices remain constant in real terms over the 20-year period covered in the with and without
project scenario (Specific conversion factors used for input prices and output prices are
presented in the detailed financial and economic analysis in the project files).
3. Tax and transfer policies remain constant over the same 20-year period so that economic prices
remain constant (1998 prices) in real terms during that period.
4. Benefits from the additional water start to accrue only in the third year, allowing two years for
development of irrigation after additional resources of water have been discovered.
5. The SCF used for capital costs was estimated to be 0.84 with a foreign exchange component of
70%.
6. The opportunity cost of capital is 10 percent.
7. Farmers have no constraints in terms of access to inputs (including credit).
8. The opportunity cost of unskilled labor is estimated at 70% of the prevailing wage rate.
9. The project life is 20 years.
With OLe above assumptions and using cropping pattern Ml, the net stream of benefits yielded a rate of
return of 18.2 % , with an NPV of 12.8 DT million for the exploration investments of the 1990-1995
period. The ERRs for cropping patterns M2 and M3 are significantly higher at 24.3% and 56.0%
respectively. However, only the results from the most conservative case are presented here. Sensitivity
tests indicate that with a 1-year and 2-year delay in benefits, the ERR would have declined to 14.6 % and
12.9% respectively. A 10% increase in capital costs would have resulted in the ERR declining to 15.9 %.
The tests indicate that overall viability of the investments would be robust over modest declines in
performance even in the most conservative case. Incorporating potable water uses would result in even
more favorable economic returns. However, the nature of the results for the conservative case demonstrates
that the deep exploratory tubewell program has been cost-effective.
Table 3: Deep Tubewell Exploration: Economic Analysis Summary - Conservative Case
Economic rate of return                       18.2
Net Present Value (millions TD)               12.8
Sensitivity Analysis:
Economic rate of return with:
1 year delay in benefits         14.6
2 year delay in benefits         12.9
Increase in Capital Costs by 10%              15.9
-38 -



Cost-Benefit Analysis for Tubewell Irrigation:
For the approximately 51 small irrigation perimeters envisaged under the project, an overall cost-benefit
analysis was carried out.
The overall costs included the investment costs, O&M costs, and the pump replacement costs every seven
years. Since the new irrigated area is roughly 3000 ha., the benefits from three representative cropping
patterns (in increasing order of value-added) were computed using farm budgets and cost of cultivation
data using the same methodology as discussed earlier. All the main assumptions listed above hold here also.
The conservative (low value-added) cropping pattern was the same as used in the deep tubewell case. All
financial prices and costs were converted to economic prices using specific conversion factors. The
benefits are assumed to come on stream in the third year of implementation starting with 40%, followed by
60%, 80% and then 100% of total benefits. The stream of net beiefits was calculated and its economic rate
of return was calculated to be 18. 1% with an NPV of TD 12.4 million.
Table 4: Small Tubewells Program: Economic Analysis Summary - Conservative Case
Economic rate of return                       18.1
Net Present Value (millions TD)               12.4
Sensitivity Analysis:
1 year delay in benefits         15.7
2 year delay in benefits         13.6
Increase in costs by 10%                      16.9
Increase in costs by 10% plus 1-year delay in  14.3
benefits
Switching Values:                            34
- Reduction in benefits (%)                  58
- Increase in costs (%)
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
Results from the sensitivity analysis indicate that with an increase in total costs of 10%, the ERR declines
to 16.9%. A delay in 1-year of project benefits would result in the ERR declining to 15.7%. The
combination of a 10% increase in capital costs and a 1-year delay in benefits would result in the ERR
declining to 14.3%. The results are robust across all the scenarios attesting to the viability of the
investments.
Switching values indicate that benefits would have to decline by 34%, and costs increase by 58% to
maintain a minimum ERR of 10%. The high switching values indicate that the ERR is quite robust and that
the risk from these crucial variables is low.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Wastewater Reuse:
- 39 -



For the approximately 580 ha. (in 7 governorates) to be irrigated with treated wastewater, a cost-benefit
analysis was carried out. Nationwide, there is currently about 6000 ha. irrigated using treated wastewater.
About 57% of these use sprinkler irrigation and 43% are under gravity irrigation.
For the analysis, the average national cropping pattern for irrigation perimeters with treated wastewater
was used - cereals - 22%; fodder crops - 45%; tree crops - 29%; and industrial crops - 4% for the
with-project situation. The without-project situation (rainfed agriculture) assumed a cropping pattern of
cereals. Farm budget and cost of cultivation data were used in the same manner as the earlier analyses to
compute benefits with and without the project. Since the wastewater treatment plants already exist, the
investment costs include only the development of the irrigation network and O&M costs of sprinlrer and
gravity irrigation systems. No additional treatment costs were assumed in the with-project scenario. The
O&M costs were computed from an average of actual O&M costs for existing wastewater irrigation
perimeters. Using the same assumptions in the earlier analyses yielded a robust ERR of over 40%.
- 40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
2001-2005
_  | Year i| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4      Year S| Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          55,0      67.0       71.0       38.0      25.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.3        0.4       0.4        0.3       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         55.1      67.3       71.4       38.4      25.3        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0 0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
iTotal Financing            55.1       67.3      71.4       38.4      25.3        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 22.0       27.0       29.0      15.0       10.0 -    0.0        0.0
Government                8.0       10.0       11.0       6.0        4.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Cd-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                   25.0       30.0       32.0      17.0       11.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    55.0       67.0      72.0       38.0      25.0       0.0        0.0
l Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         22.0      21.0       20.0       20.0      18.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           3.0       3.2        3.3        4.0       4.5       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs        25.0       24.2      23.3       24.0       22.5       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing            25.0       24.2      23.3       24.0       22.5       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government               92.0      88.0       79.0       71.0      51.0       0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   8.0      12.0       21.0       29.0      49.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing  100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
* Financing earrnarked under the Government may be reduced to include other donors' funding yet to be
determined.
-41 -



* Numbers in Financing Table during Operational Period should be read as percent of total.
As Tunisia would be completing its mobilization phase by end of the WSIP, incremental investments and
recurrent expenditures resulting from the project after completion of implementation would still average
around US$ 23 million per annum. Recurrent costs would include maintenance of measurement equipment,
data monitoring costs of the piezometric network, spare parts, overall maintenance, including of civil works.
WUAs would be responsible for 100% of O&M of the irrigation pumps and other related infrastructure and
progressively cover investment cost for all equipment with a life span of less than 10 years. Investment costs
would include replacement of computer and other monitoring systems, replacement of vehicles, etc.
- 42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement responsibilities
To ensure smooth project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the Ministry of
Agriculture will have overall responsibilities for procurement, coordination and supervision of the
execution of the project.  The PIU has acquired long experience in dealing with Bank-financed
procurement, under the previous ASIL and ongoing ASIL II loans. It is administered by the DGFE, and its
Coordinator has substantial experience in handling procurement in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines.  The PIU will coordinate procurement activities through local implementing units, the
commissariats for agricultural development (CRDAs), which are responsible for launching their own bids
and supervising their projects. The technical directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture DGGR and
DGRE, as well as IRESA, will be responsible for preparing the international and national bid documents to
be used by the CRDAs.
With a few exceptions, the Bank is satisfied that the local procurement procedures are acceptable.
Although the Tunisian legislation is generally in line with the Bank's Guidelines, certain rules and
procedures, however, are not acceptable to the Bank. These issues mainly concem the use of two
envelopes in bidding for works and goods and open competitive bidding for hiring consultants. Under this
project, the Bank's procurement procedures will be applied, as also specified in the loan agreement.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement of works and goods will be done in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, issued in January 1995 and revised in September 1997
and Januaiy 1999. Consulting services, technical assistance and training financed by the Bank will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of consultant by World Bank
Borrowers, issued in January 1997 and revised in January 1999.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category .        IC            NCB          Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost,
1. Works                         46.00         136.07         3.00          0.00         185.07
(31.50)       (33.70)       (2.00)        (0.00)       (67.20)
2. Goods                          5.70         46.20          0.00          0.00         51.90
(2.10)       (25.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (27.10)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          19.90         0.00         19.90
(Consulting services &           (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.70)        (0.00)        (7.70)
training)                _
- 43 -



4. Miscellaneous                   0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00          0.00           1.03          0.00          1.03
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.03)         (0.00)        (1.03)
Total                          51.70          182.27        23.93          0.00         257.90
(33.60)       (58.70)        (10.73)        (0.00)       (103.03)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fiianced by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
Works.  The works consist of small and large-scale perimeter rehabilitation, conservation of water
resource base, rural potable water supply, drilling exploratory wells and piezometers.  International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for contracts estimated to cost US$5 million or more. Proper
post-qualification criteria will be specified in the bid documents, and contracts would be awarded only to
bidders that meet the specified criteria. Under ICB, the Bank's standard bid documents will be used.
National competitive bidding (NCB) with use of standard documents will be used for contacts estimated to
cost US$30,000 or more but less than US$5 million. Contract awards will be made to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder on the basis of bid evaluation criteria specified in the bid documents. For contracts
estimated to be below US$30,000 national shopping will be used based on comparing quotations from at
least three contractors. Contract award will be made to the contractor who offers the lowest quotation for
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. Owing
to the lack of other providers, direct contracting would be used with the Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite
et du Gaz (STEG) for electrification of irrigation pumping stations and the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation
et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE) for carrying out very specific works on potable water installations.
Goods. The project would finance computer, piezometers, laboratory, research and other equipment as
well as vehicles. International competitive bidding will be used for contracts estimated to cost US$400,000
or more, and the Bank's standard bid documents will be used. National competitive bidding may be used
for contracts estimated to cost US$30,000 or more but less than US$400,000. For contracts not exceeding
US$30,000 national shopping may be used up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Consultant services. Consultant activities related to studies, short-term expertise, training and capacity
building will be financed under the project. Consultant services with an estimated contract amount
exceeding US$200,000 will be advertised in the United Nations Development Business periodical and in at
least one local newspapers. For such contracts, the Bank's standard Request for Proposals documents will
be used. For contracts below US$200,000 the short list of consultants may comprise entirely national
consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms are available at competitive costs. The selection
method will be based on quality and cost for all contracts above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals. Below these thresholds, and with the exception of the employment of consultants through
single source for reasons critical to the project, the selection method may be on the basis of consultants'
qualifications.
- 44 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Works contracts equal or above a threshold of $1,000,000 equivalent, contracts for goods equal to or US$
400,000, and consultant contracts equal to or above the equivalent of US$ 100,000 for firms and US$
50,000 for individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior review.  These thresholds reflect the
performance of the Ministry of Agriculture on procurement of similar works and goods under ASIL and
ASIL2. The review process would cover about 20% of total contracts amounts. This percentage is
basically due to the large number of small civil works contracts, and is deemed acceptable given the
satisfactory procurement of the same implementing agencies under existing projects and the acceptability to
the Bank of National Competitive Bidding procedures. For other procurement, the Borrower shall furnish
all information and documentation that the Bank may reasonably request, prior to the submission of the
related withdrawal application.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
.Expenditure Category.    (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)'
1. Works                       >=5,000                    ICB                  All contracts
<5,000                   NCB        -    All contracts above US$1
________=____________ _                                                       m illion
2. Goods                        >=400                     ICB                  All contracts
<400                    NCB                  No prior review
3. ServicesFirms                >=100                    QCBS                  All Contracts
Individuals
<100                    QCBS               None (Post Review)
>=50             Consultant Guidelines    TORs, SL, TORs Contract
<50              Consultant Guidelines        TORs only
4.Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$ 35 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-45 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of Loan Proceeds. Allocation of Loan proceeds by disbursement category and percentages
financed by the Loan (including a Front End Fee of 1%) are presented in Table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
l .'.g"<.tExenditure Category , , rt  US$niilln           F    cAlmovo   n t
1. Works                                   64.00                         60%
2. Goods                                   27.00              100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory),
and 80% of local expenditures for the
other item procured locally
3. Services, Capacity-building and         7.00                         100%
Training
Unallocated                                3.88
Collars and Caps                           0.09
Total Project Costs                        101.97
Front-end fee         1.03 -
Total                                      103.00o
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). For:
e   All works and goods contracts of an estimated cost less than US$1,000,000 and US$400,000
equivalent, respectively; and
3   All consultant contracts of an estimated cost less than US$100,000 for finns and US$50,000
equivalent for individuals and training.
Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be submitted
with the corresponding application.
Special account:
Special Account.
Upon effectiveness, an amount equivalent to EUR 8.2 million (US$ 7.5 million equivalent) will be
authorized for deposit to a Special Account in the BCT (Banque Centrale de Tunisie). Initially, the
authorized allocation will be limited to an amount equivalent to EUR 4.4 million until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments are equal to or exceed the equivalent of EUR 22 million.
-46 -



Financial Management.
The Financial Management System (FMS) in place at the MOA's implementing agency for the project, is
based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the pubic sector and more
specifically to governmental institutions. The financial management system in place is currently in a
transition phase. A program of modernization and upgrade was started in 1994 and has allowed among
other the approval and adoption of an organization chart characterized by a matrix organization which
reinforces decentralization and upstream and downstream controls. The main characteristics of this system
are the following:
Accounting svstem. An accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components is
operational and reflected on legal books according to the regulation described in the Public Accounting
Law. In parallel the informnation system is quite developed and allows, through numerous applications, to
generate the necessary information for the management of operational activity.
Budgeting svstem. Based on the programs and actions to be undertaken, the MOA issues an annual budget
for commitments. The annual budget is submitted for approval to the Ministry of Finance, structure in
charge of a close control through its specialized units. In terms of sources of funds, the general budget
includes the GOT's contribution as well as funds allocated by different donors for the implementation of
specific projects. The budget execution is also subject to authorization for payment on a transaction level.
This specific authorization process aims at ensuring that the expense to be paid has been budgeted, and to
issue the official instruction to make the payment. This process is supported by a computer system called "
ADAB" which the various Ministries use at the central level to commit expenditures and which insures that
all conmitments are covered by the annual approved budget. The DGFE is playing an important role for
the formulation of the annual budget and its execution, since it is the official vis a vis of the donors and the
structure responsible for issuing periodical monitoring reports.
National Disbursements Procedures. Payments through the governmental budget are decentralized and
processed by the CRDAs. Based on the authorization of payments, the Tresorerie Generale (TG) transfers
the needed funds on a quarterly basis. With regards to transactions totally or partially financed by
international donors, payments are centralized for the eligible portion. The process involves four parties
with specific roles as follows: (i) the CRDA is responsible for implementation and issuing of the
applications for withdrawal, (ii) the technical department involved is responsible for reviewing the technical
aspects and the consistency of the supporting documentation, (iii) the DGFE is responsible for the review
of the eligibility of the expenditures to the specific financing; and (iv) the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT)
which plays the role of manager of the special account and is acting as MOF representative for the
replenishment of this account.
Control of the budget execution. A fiduciary responsibility of control of budget execution and monitoring is
assigned to MOF through a specialized audit department "Controle General des Finances" (CGF) and to
the Audit Court (Cour des Comptes) that has a judiciary role of supervision of public finance and the
authority to deliver final approval
("quitus") of the management and accounts of public funds. For managing the external debt, MOF has
implemented in 1996 a new computerized system called "SLADE".
Project Monitoring. The official structure responsible for the project monitoring and reporting is DGFE.
This unit is responsible for issuing periodical reports combining physical implementation data as well as
financial information related to commitments, disbursements and available balances from the loans, credits
and grants. Even if the system can be considered as globally satisfactory, it still presents scope for
improvement to reach the required efficiency and to improve the decision making process. In fact, DGFE
still has to handle periodically several sub reports issued by the technical departments that often don't have
- 47 -



the needed coherence to allow for an easy aggregation of data. This method of operating involves delays
and extra workload related to the needed checks and reconciliation of data before issuing the consolidated
semi-annual reports. This could also affect the accuracy and reliability of data since new entries have to be
done at the level of DGFE in order to present an overview of project implementation.
General Assessment and Scope for Improvement
General Assessment. Deficiencies in MOA's financial management systems at the central and regional
levels were identified during the assessment. It is important to note that these deficiencies do not reflect
accountability issues. The findings are mainly related to non-computerization of the accounting system,
non-official definition by writing of the financial management procedures, incomplete Management
Infornation Systems, and use by the technical structures of "individual" technology solutions for the
monitoring of their operational activity. It should also be noted that MOA is in the process of addressing
several of these issues mainly through the National Program for Modernization and Upgrade (NPMU).
Still, substantive improvements will require several years of concerted efforts and mobilization of the
needed funds.
Scope for improvement. Although it is overall satisfactory, the existing financial management system
should be improved in order to achieve the required efficiency. The main improvements are on line with
the NPMU. These are related to: (i) the adoption of coherent and comparable financial management
procedures by all the CRDAs; (ii) the harmonization of the management information system in terms of
technology solutions; (iii) the implementation of a comprehensive analytical accounting system at the level
of the 23 CRDAs; and (iv) the development of general training program for the staff of the DGFE as well
as those involved in the project monitoring at the central and regional levels. Indeed most of these actions
aim at making the decentralization more effective and at allowing the units at the central level to play their
roles accordingly.
Financial Management System for the Proiect. Since the implementation of the actions related to the
NPMU still need several years of concerted efforts there is a need during the transition period to set up
special arrangements for the management and monitoring of the proposed WSIP. The recommendations are
taking into account the ongoing NPMU actions and should be considered as complementary. The main
actions to be implemented during a period of 15 months and by no later than September 30, 2001 are the
following:
0     of the Project Management Team (PMT) headed by an official coordinator for the project.
0     Hiring of a short-term consultant to develop the Financial Management Manual
0     Acquisition of the needed hardware for the project team.
0     Implementadon of a specific software application.
0     Appointment of an accounting andfinancial management specialist
0     Development of training program.
Organization of the PCU . The head of this structure has to be designated officially as coordinator. This
person will be responsible for monitoring and coordination as well as procurement, finance, budgeting,
accounting and reporting functions. The PCU head will be assisted by an adequate number of qualified
staff at the central level. Designation of the team involved in the project implementation (DGFE, technical
Departments, Administrative and Finance department, etc.) has to be done officially taking into account the
activity level, the contribution, and the mandatory segregation of duties according to acceptable internal
control concepts. To establish a sound financial management system, the PCU will be assisted, by a
qualified accounting and financial management specialist. To establish an acceptable system for the
-48 -



monitoring and managing of the project, each technical department involved in the project will designate
officially a coordinator responsible for issuing sub-project accounts and sub-Project Management
Reports.
Financial and accounting policies for the project have to be developed. These policies are crucial for
ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance
staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies inter-alia cover the following
aspects: (i) expenditures which, would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures, which would be eligible for reimbursement from Bank Loan; and (iii) project accounting
policies. These policies would'be gradually expanded and refined to include aspects such as efficient
management and deployment of funds, internal control policies, etc.
Project Accounting System. The technical departments involved in the project implementation' will act on
behalf of the CRDAs and would be responsible for project financial management and accounting duties.
They would maintain accounting records for the components they manage, prepare and disseminate
sub-project accounts and sub-financial management reports. They would also ensure timely transmission of
these documents to the PCU. The PCU would be responsible for the aggregating, processing and issuing
of: (i) the annual project financial statements (PFS), (ii) the quarterly financial Management Report, and
(iii) the semi - annual project monitoring report. He/She will also be responsible for the submission to the
Bank and the auditors of these documents on a timely basis. The content of the PMR would be gradually
expanded and refined to include all the evaluation and performance indicators as well as budget forecast.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained on cash basis principles. Project accounts
would be maintained using the application developed for this purpose and which, will be implemented by no
later than March 2001. The implementation of a data base specific to the project will be used by the project
team to reflect all the transaction flows and issuing after the aggregation of data of the quarterly simplified
PMR and the annual project accounts.
(ii)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project funds.
This would include payments made and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions (whether
involving cash or not) would be taken into accounts in the reporting system. Disburseriients made by the
World Bank and the transaction proceeded through the Special Account maintained by BCT would also be
included in the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified
separately.
(iii)   Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities. This
distinction would be reflected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable Trial' Balance 'for the project
capturing all projects receipts, expenditures, and other payments under the 'project would be prepared. A
Chart of Accounts for the project has to be developed. The Chart of Accounts should conform to the
classification of expenditures and sources of funds as indicated in the project documents (Project
Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB). The Chart of Accounts should allow data
to be captured in a manner to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project
components; (ii) expenditure categories; and (iii) disbursement categories.
iv)    A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports and the legal
records (mainly ADAB and SL4DE) have to be defined.
-'49 -



(v)    Physical information on key performance indicators that can be readily linked to financial costs
would be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Initially this would be maintained
for some high cost items that represent a significant portion of the project cost, and for items for which,
data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items have to be identified and indicated in the
Internal Control Guidelines. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes. The information flow will be as follows:
(i) Each technical department will act on behalf of the CRDA and will generate and maintain vouchers and
supporting documentation for expenditures on activities directly managed within their line of specialization.
Sub project accounts will be issued on a monthly basis and transmitted to the PCU for control, aggregation
of data, maintaining of the centralized project accounts and issuing of the project financial statements.
(ii) Expenditures incurred by each CRDA as well as by technical department at the central level would be
reviewed by the project auditors following the International Standards of Auditing and the World Bank
guidelines; and
(iii) This system would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience, and NPMU's achievements
by December 2002. Reporting arrangements in terms of contain and periodicity of submission would be
revised and defined accordingly.
Internal Controls . The project financial management system should include the following internal control
mechanisms:
(i)    Operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets;
(ii)    Adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project. These policies and procedures have
to be included in the Financial Management Procedures Manual.
(iii)   Establishment at the transaction level of policies, procedures and systems for ensuring acceptable
internal controls mechanism such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, easy access to supporting
documents etc. These policies and procedures would be reviewed and updated periodically; and
(iv)   Implementation of a comprehensive system aiming to: (i) the aggregation of data at the central
level; and (ii) the issuing of the project financial statements and the PMR.
This document should reflect the PCU's role including a description of: (a) staff positions and
responsibilities, (b) transaction flows, and (c) relation with the technical departments and CRDA as well as
external authorities/administrations such as Ministry of Finance, BCT, etc. This system would be reviewed
in the light of implementing experience and modified as necessary.
Financial Management Reports
Project financial and monitoring reports for the project would be generated from the computerized financial
management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than
transactional details) and would be used for the monitoring and implementation of the project by each
Technical Directorate and DGFE at the central level.
- 50 -



The PCU would be responsible for the issuing of the following reports:
Quarterly simplified financial reports which should include the following statements:
     Summary of expenditures committed and disbursement by component
     Summary of expenditures committed and disbursement by category
     Summary of the procurement process and procedures
Semi annually project monitoring and management report which, should include the following:
(i) Financial Statement that include:
     Summary of sources and uses of funds
     Uses of funds by project activity
     Project balance statement of affairs
     Cash withdrawal
     Cash forecast
     Special account statement
(ii) Progress statement that include:
     Output monitoring report using contact management information
     Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii) Procurement management report that includes:
     Contract expenditure report - Goods and works
     Contract expenditure report - Consultant
     Procurement management report - Goods and works
     Procurement management report - Consultant
Formats of the reports should be part of the Financial Management Procedures Manual,
Anmually: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. PFS would
include: (i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from
various sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying
project expenditures by components and expenditure categories; (iii) a Special Account Reconciliation
Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Audited PFS would be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
Audit Arrangements
As an exception to the Bank requirements and guidelines, the accounts and financial statements of the
project would be audited by the "Contr8le Gen&al des Finances" (CGF), who would be the Project
Auditor. The annual project financial statements audited by CGF would be submitted to the Bank within 6
months of the close of GOT's fiscal year. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for the audit would be included
in the Financial Management Manual and approved by the Bank.
The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of
funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit will be carried out in accordance with Intemational Standards
on Auditing. Terms of Reference (TORs) for this assignment should cover an audit of financial transaction,
and an assessment of the financial management system, including review of internal control mechanisms.
Each CRDA as well as structures at the central level would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The Auditor
- 51 -



would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to manag,ement's attention any issue,
which needs to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early
completion of the annual audit.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ProjectdSchedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12
First Bank mission (identification)              11/15/99                     11/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                      02/28/2000                   02/28/2000
Negotiations                                     05/01/2000                   05/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/02/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture with input from the World Bank
Preparation assistance:
None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Namne                                    Speciality
Madani M. Tall                     Senior Economist, Cluster Leader, MNSRE
Van Tuu Nguyen                    Senior Irrigation Engineer, MNSRE
Shobha Shetty                     Economist, MNSRE
Samia Msadek                      Financial Management Specialist, MNSRE
Dominique Poitrinal               Groundwater Management Specialist/Consultant, MNSRE
Rene Cipriani                     Implementation Specialist/Consultant
Nejib Saadoun                     Water Institutions Specialist/Consultant
Khalil Zamiti                     Social Scientist/Consultant
Jurgen Blanken                    Water Economist/Consultant
Salah Darghouth                   Sector Leader, Water and Environment, MNSRE
Petros Aklilu                     Sector Leader, Rural Development, MNSRE
Doris Koehn                       Sector Director, MNSRE
M-F How Yew Kin                   Cluster Team Assistant
Ashok Subramanian                 Water Inst. Development Specialist, MNSRE
Francois Gadelle                  Sr. Irrigation Engineer, AFTR3
Marjory-Anne Bromhead             Principal NRM Specialist, Peer Reviewer, ECSSD
Arbi Ben-Archour                  Sr. Social Scientist, Reviewer for Social issues, MNSED
Dominique Bichara                 Counsel, LEGMN
Stephen D. Mink                   Principal Rural Development Specialist, Peer Reviewer, EACIF
John Buursink                     Environment Specialist/Consultant
Alain Vidal                       Research Specialist, FAO/IPTRID
-53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Plan d'Ex6cution du PISEAU, Ministere de l'Agriculture, fevrier 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
-PCD - November 11, 1999
- Pre-Appraisal Mission: BTO dated December 17, 1999
- Appraisal Mission: BTO dated March 23, 2000
- Various technical notes
C. Other
- Etude sur le Secteur de l'Eau, Avril 1999, BECHTEL/SCET-Tunisie/Ministere de l'Agriculture
- Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan-ASIL2, December 30, 1997, PAD Report no. 17208-TUN
- Agricultural Sector Investment Loan-ASIL, October 29, 1993, Staff Appraisal Report no. 12229-TUTN
- Sectoral Environmental Assessment, April 2000
- Social Review, March 2000
*Including electronic files
- 54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Differenoe between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursen,ents
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Org   Frn Rev'd
P005745       1996 Tunisia                    2ND EMPL. & TRG.                                   60.00       0.00       0.00      40.81      19.53      0.00
P005733        1994 Tunisia                   DEV.OF MTS NW REGION                               27.50       0.00       1.48       3.48       3.05      1.16
P005741       1998 Tunisia                    HIGHER EDUC. II                                    80.00       0.00       0.00      69.59       7.26      0.00
P005726       1992 Tunisia                    HIGHER EDUCATION                                   75.00       0.00       0.00      28.24      32.40     17.40
P046832       1997 Tunisia                    MUNICIPAL DEV. II                                  80.00       0.00       0.00      25.62       7.39      0.00
P005736       1997 Tunisia                    NATURAL RESOURCE MGM                               26.50       0.00       0.00      20.98       6.01      0.00
P005749        1995 Tunisia                   RURAL ROADS                                        51.50       0.00       0.00       5.55      4.79       0.00
P005725       1993 Tunisia                    SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                        69.00       0.00       3.40      33.06      24A9       -1.34
P005743       1995 Tunisa                     SECONDARY EDUCATION                                98.30       0.00       0.00      26.96      29.66      0.00
P005721       1994 Tunisia                    TN-AGRICULTURAL SEC INV                           120.00       0.00       0.00       6.11       6.34      -3.26
P050418       1998 Tunisia                    TN-ASIL 2                                          42.00       0.00       0.00      22.62      16.05      0.00
P053255        1999 Tunisia                   TN-ECAL II                                        159.00       0.00       0.00      67.64       8.16      0.00
P055314       1999 Tunisia                    TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                              35.00       0.00       0.00      34.65       4.65      0.00
P005731       1997 Tunisia                    TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                          60.00       0.00       0.00      47.58      11.66      0.00
P005746       1998 Tunisia                    TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                              50.00       0.00       0.00      43.06      18.41      0.00
P040208       1996 Tunisia                    TN-INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTION                    38.70       0.00       0.00      26.56      16.16      0.00
P005748        1994 Tunisia                   TN-PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT                      120.00       0.00       0.23       4.56       5.41      5.18
P005720       1995 Tunisia                    TN-RURAL FINANCE                                   65.00       0.00       0.00      30.68      30.68      6.43
P005680       1995 Tunisia                    TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                       58.00       0.00       0.00      18.13      10.39      0.00
P043700       1998 Tunisia                    TRANSPORT SECTOR INV                               50.00       0.00       0.00      30.81      22.89      0.00
Total:     1365.50       0.00         5.11      585.69    274.80     25.57
- 55 -



TUNISIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998/00            BIAT  .                         0.00    0.32     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.29     0.00    0.00
1993               Ideal Sanitaire                 0.00     1.02    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.02     0.00    0.00
1995               Maghreb IM Bank                 0.00    0.33     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.33     0.00    0.00
1986/92/98          SITEX                          0.00    0.77     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.77     0.00    0.00
1973/75            Sousse-Nord                     0.00    0.59     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.59     0.00    0.00
1998               Tuninvest                       0.00    4.64     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.36     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.00    7.67     0.00     0.00     0.00    5.36     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TUNISIA: TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
M East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             & North   middle. 
Tuniala     Africa   income      Development dlamond'
1998
PoPulation. mid-vear (millions)                          9.4       285        908                  Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (AtAls method, US$)                     2.050      2,050     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        19.2       586      1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (X)                                           1.6        2.2       1t1
Labor force (%)                                          2.9        3.0       15S      GNP           '                   Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avaitable. 1992-98)                                  per                              primary
capita             ,-   I     enrollmnenl
Poverty (% of DOpulation below national poverty line)
Urban population (Mof total poDulation)                  64         58         58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          70        67         s8
Infant mortalitv (Der 1,000 live births)                  30        49         38
Child malnutrition (% of children underS)                  9        14                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of Population)                    90        81         75
Illiteracy (% of poDulation age 15+)                     33         38         14
Gross Primary enrollment (% of school-age Dopulation)    117        96        103        -     unisia
Male                                                  120        103        105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                113         89        100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                             5.1       9.7       18.9      20,0
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                 30,5      23.5       26.7      27.5                      T
Exports of goods and services/GOP             29.8      34.8       43.9      42.4                       rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    221       22.5       24.2      24,3
Gross national savings/GDP                    21.8      22.0       234       241
Current account balance/GDP                    -9.3      1.0       -3          4       Domest 
Interest paymentstGDP                           1.3      3.6        2.5       2,4     Domestic              "       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                43.7      70.3       59.9      51.8      Savins
Total debt service/exports                     10.6     28.3       15.7      15.0
Present value of debtGDP                                           55.7
Present value of debUexports                                      117,0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03                     n
(average annual qrowth)
GDP                                   4.4      4.6       5,4        5.0       6.1         -Tunisia
GNP per capita                        1.6       2.7      4.5        3.8       4.4                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of aoods and services         3.2      4,8      10.5        3.7       5.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             30
Agriculture                                    15.8     16.5       13.3      12.4    30 T
Industrv                                      25.7      29.5       28.5      25.4     20
Manufacturing                                10,6     15.1       18.4       18.2      0
Services                                      58,4      54.1       58.2      59.2    .1                               9
Private consumption                           61.7      60.6       62.8      62.7    -20 --
General government consumption                16.2      16.9       13.0      13.0               -GD1             I-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 38.0      35.8       46.4      45.6
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     3.7      4.4        2.9      -1.0     5
Industrv                                       4.6       4.6        5.6       4.9    1nAs
Manufacturino                                 7.9      6.1        7.1        3.8
Services                                        45       21         6.1       6.4
Private consumption                             5.1      4.5        4.0       5.2      a
General government consumption                  5.5      1.8        6.6       3.6             53   94   95           97   s8
Gross domestic investment                       0.3      5.5        5.6       6.1     5I
Imports of goods and services                   2.2      4.1        8.9       4.2                   'Exports    m mports
Gross national product                          4.3      4.6        6.0       5.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 57 -



Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
DomesV'c prices
(% change)                                                                           6
Consumer prices                                6.7       8.2        3.7       3.1    8
Implicit GDP deflator                           9.7      5.2        4.0       3.6    4
Government fInance                                                                   2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            .         -
Current revenue                                  ..    28.3        28.7      29.3            93    94    95    96    97    9
Current budget balance                           ,,      4.9        3.4       4.5                   GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficil                          .      -3.0       -3.9      -2.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            928    2,137       5,559     5,722     10,000
Fuel                                         389       505       503       367
Agriculture                                    52      166        277       193  e ,o*
Manufactures                                 434    1,43i       3,680     3,804      4.000
Total imports (cif)                           1,824    3,028      7,951     8.317
Foodl                                        216       312       691       892
Fuel and energy                              198       318        597      396      2,000
Capital goods                                540       520      1,724     1,917        0
92  93  94  95  94  97  93
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      69        108       105
Import price index (1995=100,                    ..      68        107       107               EtExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      100       101        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
`US millions)                                                                         Cr1977  1987  1997  1999  Curent account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                    1,511    3,377      8,164     8,479       0
Imports of goods and services                1,942    3,473      8,688     9,077
Resource balance                              -431       -96      -524      -598      *2
Net income                                    -199      -486      -860      -857      -4
Net current transfers                            ..       ..       791       780
Current account balance                       -474       .98      -593      -675
Financing items (net)                          437      215        711       601       -.
Changes in net reserves                         37      -116      -118        74    -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS$millions)           ..     616       1,988     1,851
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/USS)                0.4      0.8        1.1       1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,233    6,817      11,323    10,341
IBRD                                         167    1,052      1,434     1,450                 G. 1,110    A: 1,450
IDA                                           67       63         45        43
Total debtservice                              180    1,105       1,413     1,401                                     C129
IBRD                                          23      177        275       268
IDA3                                                    23                   2
Composition of net resource flows                                                      F:2.e5
Official grants                               32      .85        134        82                                      0: 1.906
Official creditors                           312      129        105      -145
Pnvate creditors                             351     -120        587         6
Foreign direct investment                     93       92        316       697
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0                        E: 2,966
World Bank program
Commitments                                   78      200        167       222      A . IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 53      166        127       133     8-IDA      D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Pnncipal repayments         ,                 12      i00        175       180      C-IMF                         G -Short-term
Net flows                                     41       66        -48       47
Interest payments                             14       79        103        90
Net transfers                                 27      -13       -151      -137
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/8/99
- 58 -



IBRD 28811
<  04 < t BejlPl~~~~~~~~~~~~~Glf f  ';.,'
SPAIN                           MEDITERRANEAN                                jzre Tnis
ALGERIA   1    LIBYA                    ,IJENDOUBA
- 36'   Jendouba                      A          A     S
\  X-0;\   -36    f             9La  9Z~~~~~~agh                  ou             ..:  &;-n
MAu   .   NIGER  ) CHA                       E*
A  L                                                                               GGlf of Rm mE I A
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             .
\  \     GBELLI            S     Q      Tataouinen
35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
SECTORINVESTMENT  \. E N
33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
PROJECT                                 >                 \                 j         A   320
-       SALT LAKES \t 
_  LACS SALES                                                         Sfax
GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                             FAX
     cAPITALEs DES                                                     I' /    0   25   50   75
GOUIVERNORATS                                \                  (            KILOMETERS
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES;                               
-  FRONTIERES DES                                                       mris mop was poTo rced
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        TATAOUINE
GOERNONIRASTERNAPTIOALES                                                 0h b25dris coo7s
CAPITALE DU PAYS                                                         denominations and any
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         \                       on this ma  do not
FRONTIERES DFTERNATION4SES                         \              /      any judgment on the legal
~~ s~~tatus of any territorls
;/              or any endorsemient.
or acceptanie of such
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                  Th. boundaries.
I                   I                   I                   I
JULY 1997



