Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7025-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Water Sector Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7025-TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2000, between the REPUBLIC OF 
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter (the Policy 
Letter) dated May 5, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower's water sector (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ANPE” means Agence Nationale pour la Protection de 
l’Environnement, the Borrower’s National Agency for Environment 
Protection;
(b)
“Central Bank of Tunisia” means the Borrower’s Central Bank 
(Banque Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(c)
“CRDA” means Commissariat Régional au Développement 
Agricole, the Borrower’s Regional Commissariat for Agriculture 
Development, an administrative public institution (“établissement public 
à caractère administratif”) established and operated pursuant to the 
Borrower's Law No. 89-44 dated March 8,1989, and its related implementing 
decrees;
(d)
“DGFE” means Direction Générale du Financement et des 
Encouragements, the Borrower’s General Directorate of Finance and 
Incentives within MOA (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
“DGGR” means Direction Générale du Génie Rural, the 
Borrower’s General Directorate of Rural Works  within MOA (as hereinafter 
defined);
(f)
“DGRE” means Direction Générale des Ressources en Eaux, the 
Borrower’s General Directorate of Water Resources within MOA (as 
hereinafter defined);
(g)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the document setting 
forth the mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken 
during implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate the 
Project’s adverse environmental impacts, offset them or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, and the actions required to implement such measures, 
as reviewed periodically and agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(j)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual, at all times 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth, inter alia,  the respective 
roles and responsibilities regarding the implementation of the Project, 
the accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements, the 
monitoring and evaluation procedures, the selection criteria for the 
carrying out of the Project activities and all other relevant provisions, 
as reviewed periodically between the Borrower and the Bank;
(k)
“IRESA” means Institution de Recherche et de l’Enseignement 
Supérieur Agricoles, the Borrower’s Institute for Agricultural Research 
and Higher Education; 
(l)
“MOA” means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower, or 
its successor thereof;
Page  3
(m)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization;
(n)
“ONAS” means Office National de l’Assainissement, the 
Borrower’s national sewerage authorities;
(o)
“PCMC” means the Project Coordinating and Monitoring 
Committee established pursuant to a decision of the Minister of 
Agriculture dated April 18, 2000, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture 
and comprising representatives of MOA’s Directorates, the Ministry of 
International Cooperation and Foreign Investment, the Ministry of 
Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of 
Environment and Rural Planning, ONAS, ANPE and SONEDE, or their successor 
thereof;
(p)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within 
DGFE; 
(q)
“SONEDE” means Société Nationale d’Exploitation et de 
Distribution des Eaux, the Borrower’s National Water Distribution 
Company;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement;
(s)
“STEG” means Société Tunisienne d’Electricité et du Gaz, the 
Borrower’s National Power and Gas Company; and
(t)
“WUA” means Water Users Association.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to one hundred twelve million one hundred thousand Euros (EUR 
112,100,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of 
the General Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of 
Tunisia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one million one hundred twenty one thousand Euros (EUR 
1,121,000). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; 
and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, engineering, water conservation 
practices and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Page  5
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the 
provisions of the Environmental Mitigation Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
Page  6
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section C of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign 
Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile
Page  7
MCIIE
18060
216-1-799069
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Noureddine Mejdoub
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
    (Expressed in Euros)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   69,610,000
60%
(2)
Goods
   29,370,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
Page  8
(3)
Consultants'
    7,620,000
100% 
Services and Training
(4)
Fee
    1,121,000
Amount due 
under Section 2.04
of this Agreement
(5)
Premia for Interest
      100,000
Amount due under
Rate Caps and 
Section 2.09(c) of 
Interest Rate Collars
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    4,279,000
TOTAL
  112,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods 
under contracts costing less than $400,000 equivalent each; (ii) works 
under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent each; (iii) 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; and (iv) services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to promote effective 
integrated water resource management; and (b) to promote conservation of 
water resources and protection of the environment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Irrigation Management
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical 
assistance, for the development of an effective irrigation management 
system, including: (i) the creation of about fifty six (56) small, 
tubewell-based, irrigation perimeters; (ii) the creation of about eight 
(8) pilot irrigated perimeters using treated waste water; (iii) the 
modernization and rehabilitation of about forty (40) small and medium 
size existing perimeters; (iv) the rehabilitation of about fourteen (14) 
perimeters irrigated with hot geothermal underground water; (v) the 
establishment of drainage installations; (vi) the electrification of 
water sources and tubewells for potable water and irrigation; (vii) the 
creation of seventeen (17) water points in the southern arid zone; (viii) 
the creation of twenty five (25) deep tubewells for irrigation and 
potable water purposes; (ix) the carrying out of works toward floodwater 
Page  9
management; and (x) the carrying out of research activities in the field 
of irrigation and drainage.
Part B:
Groundwater Management
1.
Support, through the provision of works, goods and technical 
assistance, for the development of a groundwater management system, 
including: (i) the drilling of about three hundred and ten (310) 
exploratory wells and about six hundred and ten (610) piezometers; (ii) 
the protection and rehabilitation of about one hundred twenty five (125) 
existing wells and piezometers; (iii) the development of infrastructure 
for artificial groundwater recharge from available surface water; and 
(iv) the carrying out of experimental research projects.
2.
Support, through the provision of goods and technical assistance, 
for the piloting of participatory management approaches for groundwater 
usage to assess future implications for decentralization, cost-sharing, 
water rights, and surveillance/control operations.
Part C:
Water Conservation and Environmental Protection
Protecting the water resource base and soils and in monitoring the 
quality and quantity of water resources, particularly in irrigated areas, 
through the provision of technical assistance and goods, including: (i) 
the update of the inventory of key sources of pollution and the creation 
of water quality monitoring mechanisms; (ii) the development of 
information awareness campaigns; and (iii) the establishment of 
appropriate institutional arrangements for managing water pollution 
related issues.
Part D:
Rural Water Supply
Improving the supply of potable water to about one hundred thousand 
(100,000) dwellers in the Borrower's rural areas, through the provision 
of goods, works and technical assistance to WUAs.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1.
Promoting the development of new skills towards planning and demand 
management in the water sector, and strengthening the capacity of the MOA 
in dealing with issues related to the water sector, notably the 
monitoring of priority reforms under the Program, through the provision 
of technical assistance and training.
2.
Facilitating the creation of a socio-economic unit for water 
resources management in the MOA.
3.
Supporting efforts aiming at strengthening the capacity of WUAs, 
NGOs and private entrepreneurs in the water sector.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Page  10
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2005
7%
May 15, 2006
7%
November 15, 2006
7%
May 15, 2007
0%
November 15, 2007 
0%
May 15, 2008
7%
November 15, 2008 
7%
May 15, 2009
0%
November 15, 2009 
0%
May 15, 2010
7%
November 15, 2010 
7%
May 15, 2011
0%
November 15, 2011 
0%
May 15, 2012
7%
November 15, 2012
7%
May 15, 2013
7%
November 15, 2013 
5%
May 15, 2014
5%
November 15, 2014 
4%
May 15, 2015
4%
November 15, 2015 
3%
May 15, 2016
3%
November 15, 2016
3%
May 15, 2017
3%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
Page  11
system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits,” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $35,000,000 equivalent, 
and goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount for goods not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works for electrification of irrigation pumping and 
potable water supply stations under Parts A and D of the Project, which 
are of a proprietary nature and can only be procured from one supplier, 
may be procured from STEG and SONEDE in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  12
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. All goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more per contract may be procured in 
accordance with the said provisions of the Guidelines, subject to the 
Bank’s prior agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts 
referred to in Paragraph 2 of the present Part D, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Page  13
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Coordination and Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall ensure overall Project coordination through the 
DGFE and the PCMC. To that end, the Borrower shall maintain the PCMC 
under institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, to coordinate 
and oversee Project progress. Day-to-day coordination of all Project 
activities shall be carried out by PCU.
2.
The Borrower shall vest MOA with the overall responsibility for 
Project implementation. At the central level, MOA shall cause Parts A and 
D of the Project to be executed by DGGR, Part B of the Project to be 
executed by DGRE, and Part C of the Project to be executed by DGGR and 
DGRE in collaboration with IRESA, ONAS and ANPE. At the regional level, 
CRDAs shall be responsible for the identification, implementation and 
coordination of Project activities across MOA’s regional technical units. 
All Project activities shall be selected and carried out in accordance 
with the criteria and provisions set forth in the Implementation Manual.
Page  14
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 
1 and 2, the DGFE shall have additional responsibility for (a) monitoring 
of financial and physical progress of the Project; (b) progress 
evaluation of the achievement of the Program; (c) coordination of 
procurement, disbursement and audit activities, including the formulation 
of financial reports; and (d) preparation of the mid-term review and 
progress reports referred to in, respectively, Section B and C of this 
Schedule. To this end and in order to ensure proper management of the 
Project, the Borrower shall ensure that DGFE (a) maintains professional 
staffing in adequate number, whose qualifications and experience shall be 
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) conducts operations in accordance with 
the Environmental Management Plan and the Implementation Manual at all 
times satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
In accordance with the Program set forth in the Policy Letter, the 
Borrower shall take the following measures, namely: (i) the progressive 
transfer of overall responsibility for the management of public 
irrigation perimeters to WUAs; (ii) the extension of modern commercial 
cost and income accounting practices to CRDAs with a view to introduce 
transparent billing and contracting procedures between the Borrower and 
WUAs and reduce the cost of water delivery in the irrigation sector; 
(iii) the yearly revision of irrigation of water prices to cover at least 
inflation rates and the implementation of water tariff structure based on 
fixed and variable terms (“tarification binôme”) across priority CRDAs; 
(iv) not later than December 31, 2001, the establishment of a 
socio-economic unit for water resources management within MOA (Part E of 
the Project); and (v) the formulation and implementation of a 
communication program for water conservation, acceptable to the Bank.
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall, through the MOA:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2003, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
C.
Semi-annual Reports
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement and to those of Section B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year until completion of 
the Project, commencing on September 30, 2001, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a Project management report, of such scope and in such detail as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, describing, inter alia (i) the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, (ii) the workplan 
for the following six-month period, and (iii) the financial and 
procurement status of the Project.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), 
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $7,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of EUR 22,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  16
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
