                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                             Report No: ICR0000828




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                              (IBRD-70250)




                                                   ON A

                                                  LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO112.1 MILLION
                                (US$103 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        TUNISIAN REPUBLIC

                                                  FOR A

                              WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN




                                              June 18, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective)

             Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                   1.00 = US$ US$ 1.00 = TD

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB      African Development Bank
ANPE      National Environment Protection Agency
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
ASIL      Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ASIL2     Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
AVFA      Agricultural Extension and Training Agency
BCT       Central Bank of Tunisia
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFD       Caisse Française de Développement
CRDA      Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development
DGFE      Directorate General of Finance and Encouragements
DGGR      Directorate General of Rural Works
DGPA      Directorate General of Agricultural Production
DGRE      Directorate General of Water Resources
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FMPM      Financial Management Procedures Manual
FMS       Financial Management System
GCF       General Controller of Finances
GOT       Government of Tunisia
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IRESA     Institute of Agricultural Research and Education
KfW       Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LSDP      Letter of Sector Development Policy
METAP     Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NPMU      National Program for Modernization and Upgrade
PISEAU    Water Sector Investment Project / Projet d'Investissement dans le
          Secteur de l'Eau
PFS       Project Financial Statements
PMR       Project Management Report
PMT       Project Management Team
SEA       Sectoral Environmental Assessment

SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TOR     Terms of Reference
WRM     Water Resources Management
WSIP    Water Sector Investment Project (PISEAU)
WSR     Water Sector Review
WUA     Water Users Associations




              Vice President: Daniela Gressani
             Country Director: Mats Karlsson
             Sector Manager: N. Vijay Jagannathan
         Project Team Leader: Julia Bucknall
            ICR Team Leader: Julia Bucknall

                              REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                           Water Sector Investment Loan




                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................... 1
   2. Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes.............................................. 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 9
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 15
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 16
   6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 18
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 20
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................ 21
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................ 22
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................. 30
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........... 36
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results......................................................................... 38
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 40
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 42
   Annex 8. Comments of co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 48
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 49
   MAPS: IBRD 36131, 36132 and 36149

A. Basic Information

                                                                       TN-Water Sector
Country:                Tunisia                 Project Name:
                                                                       Investment
Project ID:             P035707                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-70250
ICR Date:               06/30/2008              ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 103.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 132.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Water Resources
Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/04/1999    Effectiveness:         01/23/2001          01/23/2001
Appraisal:             02/15/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/22/2000    Mid-term Review:                           12/01/2003
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  3                  3
Crops                                                              2
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                                33
Irrigation and drainage                                           69                 44
Water supply                                                      26                 20


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                          Primary          Secondary
Decentralization                                                 Primary          Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary          Primary
Water resource management                                        Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Cecile Fruman                       Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:           Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan        Doris Koehn
Project Team Leader:      Julia Bucknall                      Madani M. Tall
ICR Team Leader:          Julia Bucknall
ICR Primary Author:       Jean-Marc Bisson



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's main objectives are: (i) to promote effective integrated water resources
management; and (ii) to promote conservation of water resources and protection of the



                                                ii

environment. These two objectives are expected to significantly improve the productivity
of agriculture and increase the access of rural populations to safe water.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   New institutional arrangement for the water sector in place (note: indicators in
                this table are selected from large number in Annex 1 of the PAD)
                                                                             Inter-agency
Value                                                                        coordination has
quantitative or n/a                        n/a                               increased
Qualitative)                                                                 substantially.

Date achieved 01/23/2001                   01/23/2001                        12/31/2007
Comments        Co-ord. planning unit in the MoAgri.. Agencies collaborate more closely.
(incl. %        Research institutes work in multi-disciplinary teams. Responsibility for irr.
achievement)    devolved to user association.
Indicator 2 :   Additional population with access to safe and clean water.
Value
quantitative or n/a                        100,000                           171,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/23/2001                   01/23/2001                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Efficiency improvement and water conservation mechanisms in place.

Value           57% of public irrigation

quantitative or schemes equipped with      90%                               80%
Qualitative)    localized irrigation (e.g.
                drip)
Date achieved 01/23/2001                   01/23/2001                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This equipment was not financed by the project although training and evaluation

achievement)    activities were.

Indicator 4 :   Sustainability of water use.
                                                                             Water quality

Value                                                                        monitoring in place.

quantitative or                                                              Improved

Qualitative)                                                                 monitoring of
                                                                             surface and ground-
                                                                             water. Artificial



                                                iii

                                                                                recharge piloted in
                                                                                11 sites. Aquifer
                                                                                management plans
                                                                                tested.
Date achieved                                                                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised         Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Number of ha of irrigation rehabilitated and under use [note: indicators in this
               table are selected from a large number of indicators in Annex 1 of the PAD].
Value
(quantitative                             17,000                                29,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             01/23/2001                            12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Figures here include schemes created, using treated wastewater, drainage as well

achievement)   as rehabilitation. Separate figures for each category are available.

Indicator 2 :  Number of operational water user associations (WUAs) in the small-scale
               irrigation perimeters by start of operation.
Value
(quantitative  886                                                              1,064
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2001                                                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       This represents 80% of public irrigation areas.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Additional renewable groundwater resources identified.
                                                                                317 boreholes
Value                                                                           drilled identifying
(quantitative                             310 boreholes        250 boreholes    45.3 million m3 per
or Qualitative)                           drilled              drilled          year able to irrigate
                                                                                7,500 ha
Date achieved                             01/31/2001           06/28/2002       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This quantity is 3% of the total used for irrigation. If all boreholes equipped in

achievement)   future, surface area will be 2% of total irrigated land.

Indicator 4 :  Systematic monitoring of the piezometric network.

Value                                                                           482 piezometers

(quantitative                             610 piezometers      355              financed, system

or Qualitative)                                                piezometers      optimized with
                                                                                hydrological data



                                                iv

                                                                             collection system.
Date achieved                              01/23/2001        01/23/2001      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This data will eventually feed into the umbrella# information system (SINEAU),

achievement)   which has been designed.

Indicator 5 :  Systematic monitoring and corrective actions for intrusion of salt and water in
               table and soil.
                                                                             Soil quality
                                                                             monitoring

Value                                                                        improved, action

(quantitative  n/a                         n/a                               plan for improving

or Qualitative)                                                              soil quality adopted
                                                                             and related
                                                                             investment
                                                                             decisions taken.
Date achieved 01/23/2001                   01/23/2001                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  Development of efficient, user-friendly, standards central and regional data
               management systems. (SINEAU)
                                                                             System designed.
Value                                                                        Interim integrated
(quantitative                              System operational                data system piloted
or Qualitative)                                                              in two
                                                                             governorates.
Date achieved                              01/31/2001                        12/31/2007
Comments       Design of system was delayed because of procurement problems. Institutional
(incl. %       responsibility for maintaining database and availability of key staff subject to
achievement)   intense discussion before moving forward with implementation.

Indicator 7 :  Major sources of pollution identified on a hot spots basis and monitoring network
               to control water quality is in place.
                                                                             Hotspots identified
                                                                             and action plan for
                                                                             clean up of the
                                                                             priority sites
Value                                                                        developed. Water
(quantitative                                                                quality monitoring
or Qualitative)                                                              system designed.
                                                                             Water pollution
                                                                             monitoring system
                                                                             in place and
                                                                             operational.
Date achieved                                                                12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
 1    06/30/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
 2    12/27/2000        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
 3    02/22/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.06
 4    06/18/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.06
 5    01/22/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.44
 6    06/27/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             7.46
 7    11/11/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           13.57
 8    04/09/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           30.27
 9    09/25/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           39.23
10    03/18/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           51.76
11    09/16/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           64.79
12    03/16/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           73.12
13    10/25/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           84.82
14    05/03/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          100.82
15    12/20/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          117.84
16    03/22/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          121.74
17    07/24/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          127.86
18    02/07/2008        Satisfactory      Satisfactory          131.98



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

             1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

This is an intensive learning ICR, which has benefited from significant consultation with
beneficiaries, as summarized in the report. The annexes in the English version of the
report are summaries. This report draws on several detailed background analyses, on
topics including artificial recharge of groundwater, tariff policies, water saving
investments and rural water supply and sanitation. The ICR mission took place shortly
before project closing and data is based on information available at that time, updated
with newer information where possible. The Government provided extensive comments
on an earlier draft, which have been taken into account in this report. The comments, the
full annexes and the background papers are all available in the project files.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Water was and remains a high priority for Tunisia's development. Less than 500 m3 of
water are available per person per year, rainfall is more and more irregular, and droughts
have become more frequent and more severe. During project preparation in 2000, it was
already clear that demand would soon outstrip supply, groundwater was already under
severe stress, and few good options remained to store more water. The Government's
goals in the sector were to reduce vulnerability to irregular rainfall and droughts, to
manage demand in order to avoid water shortages in the future, and to expand access to
drinking water for the rural population. The Government's strategy to achieve those
goals was two-fold: (i) to increase supply by mobilizing conventional and non-
conventional water resources to the extent feasible and (ii) to manage demand through
revised tariff policies and more user involvement.

During project preparation, the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(MARH) adopted a policy letter for the water sector which included a ten-year action
plan based on five pillars: (a) management of water demand; (b) integrated water
resource management; (c) completion of the water resource mobilization program; (d)
development of non-conventional water resources; and (e) preservation and protection of
water resources. The project was to be the first phase of this action plan. The Bank's
financing capacities and its knowledge and experience on water issues put the institution
in a unique position to finance the program. The project was intended to directly
contribute to the CAS objectives, through promoting improved management of natural
resources, and improving living conditions of the rural poor.




                                             1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

                     Project Objectives                                     Key Indicators
1.    Promotion of effective integrated water resource New institutional arrangements in place.
management through: (a) preparation and application of an
institutional framework and the implementation of sector       Increased agricultural yields
reforms for demand management; (b) improved capacity of
the Government, the CIC/GDA and private operators to           Additional population with access to safe
ensure more efficient resource management; and (c)             and clean water
improved real time management of surface and groundwater.

2. Promotion of conservation of water resources and Water conservation mechanisms in place
protection of the environment.
                                                               Water use more sustainable
                                                               .


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

The project objectives were not revised, but the key indicators were fine-tuned in 2005,
used in subsequent supervision missions, and reflected in ISRs. The new indicators were
intended to better reflect the originally-intended outcomes and where reliable information
was expected to be available by the time of project closing. The difference between the
original and the revised indicators is summarized in the table below.

Original indicator                   Refined indicators
New institutional arrangements in    Improved coordination between agencies involved in water
place                                management and services

                                     Socio-economic unit reporting to the Minister established

                                     Proportion of public irrigation schemes managed by water user
                                     associations

                                     Evaluation of different approaches for participatory aquifer
                                     management tested

                                     Change in operating costs per m3 for irrigation systems and of
                                     subsidies to public irrigation schemes
Increased agricultural yields        Average value of agricultural outputs per m3 of water
Additional population with access to Did not change
safe and clean water
Water conservation mechanisms in     Share of irrigated land equipped with micro-irrigation technology
place
Water use more sustainable           Change in groundwater exploitation rate by region

                                     National Action Plan to fight water pollution approved with
                                     indicators in effect

However, neither the original nor the refined set of indictors reflects well the actual
activities of the project. The project financed activities that had important impacts but
that are not captured by either set of impact indicators. For example, 43% of the total


                                                   2

project costs were to finance creation or rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure and
27% to finance drilling of exploratory wells. The indicator relating to agricultural value-
added per m3 of water does reflect the irrigation and drainage investments but
unfortunately the relevant study commissioned by the government was not satisfactorily
completed by the time of project closing. Objectives or indicators relating to irrigation
services (e.g. increased or more reliable agricultural production) and to reliable water
supplies identified by boreholes would have helped link the project-financed activities
with the objectives and indicators, especially since the project greatly exceeded
expectations in these activities, as it did with rural drinking water services. With a
different set of objectives, the project might well justify a higher outcome rating.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Since the project addresses different beneficiaries in its several components, and is
national in scope, the project's primary target group was not described in the Appraisal
Document.      However, the document does give target numbers to some activities.
Investments in irrigation schemes were to benefit 2,200 farmers and their families in 19
governorates. The rural drinking water investments were expected to benefit 100,000
persons in disadvantaged rural areas. Finally, the creation of sources of water supply in
pastoral areas were to benefit approximately 30,000 livestock developers, and spate water
operations would assist about 150 households who require occasional, supplemental
irrigation.   MARH and the Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development
(CRDA) officials, as well as representatives of water user associations, made up another
project target group who were to benefit from training programs and logistical support.

1.5 Original Components

The project components are described below, with their respective costs in US Dollars,
including physical and price contingencies. The total financing required, approximately
US$257.98 equivalent, was to be covered by the Government and other co-financiers to
be determined (53%); the World Bank (40%:  112.1 million, equivalent to US$103
million); and the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) (7%).

Component 1: Irrigation Management (US$112.2 million, 44% of the total project):
(a) creation of 56 small tubewell-based irrigation schemes covering 3,000 ha; (b) 14
schemes using treated waste water covering 580 ha; (c) rehabilitation of 40 perimeters
covering 7,800 ha; (d) rehabilitation of 14 schemes irrigated with geothermal
groundwater covering 2,100 ha; (e) drainage and sanitation works on 3,700 ha; (f)
electric powering of water sources and tubewells for drinking water and/or irrigation; (g)
creation of 17 water points for watering animals on pastoral lands; (h) creation of 25 deep
tubewells; (i) the creation of works for flood water management; and (j) 7
research/development activities.

Component 2:         Groundwater Management (US$80.7 million, 31.3% of total
project): (a) 310 exploratory wells; (b) purchase of 610 and rehabilitation of 125
piezometers; (c) artificial aquifer recharge at 11 sites; (d) the development of a National



                                              3

Information System for Water Resources (Système d'Information National pour les
Resources en Eau, "SINEAU") and upgrading water resource monitoring networks and
(e) experimental and research projects on groundwater.

Component 3: Water Conservation and Environmental Protection (US$4.9 million,
2% of total project): (a) updating the inventory of key sources of pollution and setting
up a network for water quality monitoring; (b) information, education, and awareness
campaigns; and (c) new institutional arrangements for the management of water pollution
issues.

Component 4: Rural Water Supply (US$51.9 million, 20% of total project): piped
drinking water to about 100,000 rural dwellers for a maximum cost of TD600 per person.

Component 5: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity-Building (US$8.3 million,
3% of total project): (a) support to the Ministry of Agriculture and the irrigation
agencies for research and training activities; (b) training for the irrigation agencies; (c)
priority studies; and (d) creation of a socio-economic unit in the Ministry of Agriculture.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were maintained as foreseen at appraisal, but the sectoral
environmental assessment of the irrigation and drainage sectors carried out during project
preparation suggested a number of additional activities: pilot rural sanitation schemes to
be included in the Water Conservation and Environmental Protection Component, and
inclusion of environmental clauses in standard bidding documents for irrigation and
drainage contracts.

1.7 Other significant changes

The following changes were implemented, at the request of the Government and
approved by the World Bank's Country Director:

(a)    In 2003, the financing percentage for the loan under the expense category "Civil
       Works" increased from 60% to 80% due to MARH budget constraints;
(b)    In 2004, some of the targets under the Groundwater Management Component
       were reduced as follows: from 310 to 250 exploratory tubewells and from 610 to
       355 piezometers, again due to budgetary constraints, compounded by unforeseen
       increases in units costs;
(c)    In March 2006, the loan's closing date was extended by 18 months, from the
       original date of June 30, 2006, to December 31, 2007. This extension was
       required for the completion of various project activities whose progress was
       hindered by their innovative and cross-sectoral nature (see below); and
(d)    Concurrently, project funds were reallocated by expense category, resulting in a
       substantial increase under the "Goods" category and decreases under the "Civil
       Works", "Consultant Services" and "Unallocated" categories. The "Goods"
       category seems to have been seriously under-estimated at appraisal.



                                              4

Finally, in 2001, The Ministry of Agriculture became the Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (MARH) and the General Directorate of Finance and Incentives
(DGFE) became the General Directorate of Finance, Investments and Professional
Organizations (DGFIOP).          Moreover, the Ministry of Environment and Land
Development became the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development
(MEDD).

               2.   Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Two years before appraisal, the Tunisian Government, with assistance from the World
Bank and KfW, prepared a Water Sector Review, which was the basis for a Ten-Year
Action Plan (2000-2010), of which this project represents the first phase. The Plan is
well founded and realistic.      The specialists working on project preparation had a
substantial amount of data and relevant information available to them. Despite some of
the deficiencies mentioned above, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) follows a
reasonable technical and institutional framework with a series of necessary and important
investments and identifies key institutional and policy issues important for achieving the
objectives of the Water Sector Review and the project.

Project Objectives. The project development objectives are a key weakness. They
describe continuous, long-term actions with several possible definitions and vague
beneficiaries. The links between inputs, outputs and outcomes are not clear. Several of
the key impact indicators are not quantifiable. This is not just a cosmetic problem.
Objectives and indicators linked to the largest share of project activities (improving
irrigation and drainage services, rural water supply services and drilling exploratory
wells) would have allowed the project to evaluate whether or not these activities were
being used by the intended beneficiaries and whether the beneficiaries were achieving the
intended benefits from that use. Without those steps, the project managers had little
choice but to monitor physical realizations. And by focusing on outputs, the project
missed the opportunity to add impetus to efforts for cross-sectoral collaboration and other
institutional and behavioral changes involved in moving towards more integrated
management of water resources. In that way, the mismatch between objectives and
components reduced the extent to which the project achieved the institutional and policy
objectives it had set for itself. To defend the project design, the concept of integrated
water resource management was strongly favored at the time of appraisal and it was
considered a significant achievement to design a project with this objective squarely at its
center, which may be behind the satisfactory quality at entry rating from QAG.

Project Components.         The components are clearly described in the project
documentation. Lessons learned from earlier projects were well incorporated, with the
exception of the risk analysis (see below). However, the analytical basis for some of the
activities is muddled. For example, the actions intended to manage demand include
expanding and rehabilitating irrigation schemes (i.e. increasing demand) and tariff reform



                                             5

(intended to promote cost recovery rather than to curb demand). In addition, project
design would have been improved by incorporating the lessons of experience from
similar projects under implementation in other regions at that time, particularly in Latin
America.

The component descriptions in the PAD did not always correspond to the detailed project
cost tables. Two discrepancies stand out:                (a) pilot rural sanitation activities were
included in the project after the sectoral environmental assessment was prepared, but
these actions are not described in the report, nor included in the project cost table; and (b)
the PAD describes a number of strategic studies to prepare important institutional reforms
to be implemented in the second phase of the project for review at mid-term. Yet the
project cost table does not include specific funding for these studies, and supervision
documents contain no mention of them.

Project Organization. During preparation, the team produced an Implementation Manual,
which was more like a manual of procedures. It lacked information to properly define
key institutional relationships for the project, but did outline an institutional framework
for the project as follows: (a) a coordination and monitoring committee, headed by the
Ministry of Agriculture and including relevant Government institutions; and (b) a
coordination unit within the DGFIOP of MARH comprising a coordinator, an accountant
and a procurement specialist. This structure had been adequate in earlier projects that
DGFIOP managed. However, this project differed from these earlier activities, since it
was far more decentralized.             By design, much of the responsibility for physical
investments was to go to the 24 Regional irrigation agencies (CRDAs).                                This
decentralization was important, but it did complicate implementation. The project had 28
numerous implementation agencies and generated more than 1400 contracts. Therefore
central coordination was more important than in earlier projects.

Project Risks. The risk analysis is reasonable, although incomplete. The completion
report for the previous project (Agricultural Sector Investment Loan, PISA-Relais)1
identified recurrent problems of low irrigation intensity, which could jeopardize their
financial and economic cost-effectiveness. However, this risk was not highlighted under
the current project and no mitigation measures were included. The same applies to
problems marketing irrigated production, which were also apparent in earlier irrigation
projects in Tunisia. Inadequate intensification of irrigation and poor marketing practices
appear to be key factors behind the lower-than-expected cost effectiveness of the
irrigation investments in this project2.

Donor Coordination.           This activity was well-coordinated with other donors.                   For
example, the project's Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal missions and supervision missions
were carried out jointly with KfW and the Agence Française de Développement (AFD).



1Bridge financing was to fill the gap between the Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL, which
closed in 2002) and this project.
2The current cost effectiveness remains an estimate, since most irrigation schemes have not yet reached
their maximum development potential.


                                                    6

Quality at Entry. Shortly after appraisal, the QAG rated project quality at entry as
satisfactory. However, in light of experience implementing and evaluating it, we now
rate project quality at entry as moderately satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

The conditions of effectiveness were fulfilled within the required timeframe and the loan
became effective at the end of January 2001. In early February 2001, the Ministry of
Agriculture organized a launch workshop, which included a detailed implementation plan
for the first year.

In general the project achieved its physical goals, greatly exceeding many of them. Most
of the civil works were of good quality and completed within budget. The authorities'
sound management of contractors helped to reduce unit costs considerably. Completed
works are of good technical quality and sustainability is, on the whole, likely.
Beneficiary assessments indicate that a large share of the intended users do use the
infrastructure, and are generating important benefits.

The project benefited greatly from the high caliber of officials in the different
organizations implementing the project. In some components, such as rural water supply,
growing involvement of beneficiaries was another important factor in achieving the
project objectives. Furthermore the important and constructive participation of AFD and
KfW in project financing and supervision benefited the project.

In some cases, the ambitious and multi-sectoral nature of the tasks caused unexpected
delays, mainly due to difficulties preparing bidding documents and awarding contracts,
exacerbated by the need to forge consensus among a number of interested players. In
others (e.g. water information system, socio-economic analysis unit to be created), the
Government expanded the scope of the activity, beyond what was agreed during project
design, exacerbating delays.      In addition, budget constraints at start-up impacted
implementation as they reduced the amount of physical investments that could be
financed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

This was one of the project's most important weaknesses. Not only were the indicators
themselves weak, but the systems for measuring progress were also inadequate. The
PAD states that DGFIOP would "use a new information system" that had been
introduced in two earlier projects.        The Implementation Manual includes some
information on procedures to be used to monitor project activities but very little on
monitoring impacts, and does not include provisions for new activities.

However, the information system introduced under the earlier projects did not actually
become operational. Therefore, during the first year of the project, the teams decided to
develop a computerized system (TOMPRO) to manage the project. This program allows
the Ministry to monitor project accounts, but it does not monitor progress of physical
achievements, of procurement and certainly not of outcomes.           Therefore, physical


                                              7

achievements are monitored by the project coordinator using programs such as Windows,
Word and Excel. And indicators of impact were not monitored until the very end of
implementation. Bank supervision missions repeatedly raised this issue, but with only
limited success (see Section 5.1).

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment. The project broadly fulfilled its obligations relating to environmental
safeguards. Training programs for those involved in evaluating impacts were thorough
and reached large numbers of people. By inserting environmental clauses into standard
bidding documents for hydraulic investments, the project will improve environmental
performance of a broader set of investments into the future and thus have a lasting
institutional impact. An evaluation of the safeguard aspects of the project noted the
following issues:

(a)     The environmental impact studies for project investments complied with Tunisian
        legislation, were properly reviewed, and therefore complied with Bank guidelines.
        The Bank supported the government preparing terms of reference for some of the
        more sensitive investments, such as recharge of aquifers with treated wastewater ;
(b)     Land acquisition was not properly handled in all cases, with agreements between
        landowners and the project proponent remaining verbal in some cases (for
        irrigation schemes). This led to some cases of conflict ;
(c)     The CRDAs do not have environmental specialists who can properly review
        environmental impact studies, with the result that some of the approved studies
        lack some aspects such as public consultation. Similarly, the project coordination
        unit lacked a specialist who could pull together the different institutions involved
        to ensure full implementation of the sectoral environmental assessment's
        recommendations ; and
(d)     The aide-memoires of supervision documents did not pay sufficient attention to
        the implementation of the environmental assessment nor to measures needed to
        keep the assessment up to date.

Procurement. Almost 1,405 contracts or orders were processed for financing under
World Bank's part of the project. This involved 28 executing agencies (of which 24 were
irrigation agencies). Nevertheless, procurement was mostly well done, thanks to the
standard bidding documents used for national competitive bidding. However, there were
some long delays between opening the bids and signing the contracts, with marked
differences between regions and from one bid to another. There were also problems with
the bid evaluation report filing, particularly in the regions.

Financial management. The principal issue relating to financial management relates to
an over-commitment of project funds by the local agencies. After the closing of the
project, the project had over-committed a total of 12.6 million, of which 8 million were
from the Bank loan. The Ministry of Agriculture will use its own budget to finance these
over-runs. This problem is due in part to poor budget management by the regional
agencies, compounded by some systemic control issues in the capital. First, the project
management unit does not receive systematic information about commitments from the


                                               8

executing agencies. Second, the budgetary system does not include barriers that alert
managers to the lack of available financing before they approve a commitment. Third,
the project management unit does not have access to the budget of the regional
organizations. The auditors at the Contrôle Général des Finances reviewed the practices
between 2006 to July 2007. They certified that the financial statements were accurate and
that the funds were used for the intended purposes. They also gave an unreserved
approval of the special account and the expenditures. They found some weaknesses in
internal controls, mainly relating to information flow between the capital and the regions,
and some procurement anomalies.


                             3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Project objectives at appraisal were in line with the objectives of the Government's Ten-
Year Action Plan and the CAS for Tunisia. These broad objectives are still appropriate,
and take on greater urgency in light of the likely effects of climate change on rainfall in
the Maghreb. The activities in the components did contribute to the broad objective, and
covered many important issues necessary to improve water resource management. The
link between components and the overall objectives should have been clearer and the
indicators should have been more specific and better captured project activities.
However, although there is no data to support a statement of the counterfactual, it seems
reasonable to suggest that if funds had not been available to create and rehabilitate
irrigation infrastructure, provide drinking water, push tariff reforms, support water user
associations, test new technologies and participatory approaches, and fund research and
training, water management in Tunisia would currently be less efficient.

During implementation, the Bank team could have re-structured the objectives. However,
it is unlikely that the government would have agreed to such as change as they were (and
remain) strongly committed to the goals as stated in their letter of development policy.
Similarly, the project-cofinanciers would have been reluctant to agree to such a change.
Restructuring would have created significant tension in relationships with the
Government and with the donors.

In sum, given that relevance considers whether the project chose appropriate objectives
and whether the design was appropriate to achieve the objectives, relevance has to be
considered to be moderate.       The objectives were right and many of the activities
contributed to the objectives but many did not, at least not directly. The activities were
sound but they did not help achieve the objectives as stated. The same activities but a
different set of objectives and indicators could have had high relevance.




                                             9

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

I. Promotion of Integrated Water Resource Management

I (i) Establishing / implementing a sound institutional framework sector reform measures
for demand management. Measures included: (a) progressive delegation of irrigation
management to water user associations; (b) the implementation of a two-tier tariff system
for irrigation; (c) extending cost accounting practices to all irrigation agencies; (d) the
establishment of a socio-economic unit for water resource management; and (e) a
communication strategy for water conservation.

Delegation of management responsibility for irrigation schemes to water user
associations. The project made considerable progress in this regard. An estimated 80%
of irrigation schemes are currently managed by user associations, and beneficiary surveys
indicate that farmers are more involved in irrigation management than they were at the
beginning of the project. These young institutions still require substantial support and
many do not yet have the intended level of autonomy. Cost recovery is broadly adequate
at present, while infrastructure is new, but it is not clear that this will be the case when
expenses climb as infrastructure ages. The government plans continuous institutional
strengthening to help these groups handle increased costs in the future.

Implementation of a two-tier water tariff. This approach aims to improve stability of
revenues for irrigation agencies and to make irrigation charging more equitable. It was
piloted in ten irrigation areas in 1999-2000 and evaluated in project-financed studies in
seven between 2003 and 2006. In May 2007, the Council of Ministers decided to expand
the two-tier tariff approach beyond the pilot cases, to pilot three-tier tariffs3; and to
formalize annual increases in water tariffs.

Introduction of Cost Accounting Practices in CRDAs. The intention was to implement a
billing system that would lead to clearer contractual arrangements between irrigation
agencies and user associations in two areas. The preparatory study was not completed by
the project closing, although the government still intends to implement the pilot once the
study is complete.

Creation of a Socio-Economic Unit. This unit should have been a multi-sectoral planning
unit. However, the Government broadened the mandate of this unit and created the
Office of Planning and Hydraulics (BPEH) reporting to the Minister and headed by a
general director. By project closing, however, BPEH did not have sufficient staff or
budget to be entirely effective.

Communications Strategy. The strategy completed well before project closing. The
Government did not take the additional step of implementing the strategy because they
were not satisfied with the quality of advice provided by the selected firm.


3Like two-tier tariff but introducing variable terms, such as pumping charges, that vary by season.




                                                     10

Additional Achievements. Although they are not reflected in the objectives, the physical
investments financed by the project were important and greatly exceeded expectations at
appraisal. The aim was to improve irrigation services for a total of 17,000 ha (new
schemes, use of treated wastewater, drainage, geothermal, and rehabilitation). In fact the
project improved services for 29,000 ha -- two thirds more than anticipated. These
investments are summarized in maps 1 and 2. Similarly, the project improved water
supply for 170,000 people compared to the 100,000 planned at appraisal. Beneficiary
surveys indicate that this infrastructure is used and is improving quality of life for remote
rural households and for women in particular.         Other physical investments such as
electrification of pumps and creation of boreholes met or exceeded expectations.

In summary, the physical investments largely exceeded the goals and were well done. In
addition, transferring management of irrigation schemes to user associations and the
implementation of a two-tier tariff system both represent important reforms. The progress
achieved to date in the case of these two reform issues largely makes up for inadequacies
in other cases.     Therefore, the institutional framework for the water sector has
significantly improved, even though the relevant reforms were not implemented as
planned. Objective No. 1 has thus been rated satisfactory.

I (ii) Improving the capacity of the Government, Water Users Associations, and private
operators to efficiently manage resources. Overall, institutional strengthening support
exceeded expectations set at appraisal (see Annex 2) and was complemented by
additional assistance from KfW and JBIC. The beneficiary survey shows that several
water user associations were strengthened and serve as interface with the Ministry of
Agriculture (see Section 3.6). The level of this objective is thus rated satisfactory.

I (iii) Facilitation real-time management of ground and surface water.             Activities
included: (a) creating a real-time information system; (b) fine-tuning other water resource
management tools; and (c) optimizing the various monitoring networks for these
resources (see Indicator No. 3). The project financed 488 piezometers (with others
purchased with other sources of funding) compared to 355 planned (after the plans were
revised shortly after effectiveness). The project also financed a system to optimize the
piezometric and hydrometric networks.         However, the information system that was
intended to link all the sources of information (including water quality) and make them
available on the internet was designed but was seriously delayed for a number of reasons
so the fully integrated real-time system is not functioning. The Ministry has developed
an interim information system which it is piloting in two areas. Additional important
activities contributing to this objective were 11 pilot schemes to artificially recharge
aquifers with freshwater and with treated wastewater, with great potential importance for
future water management policy in Tunisia. The project intended to develop decision
support systems for aquifer management and methods of working with communities to
encourage them to manage aquifers actively themselves. These latter activities were also
delayed, partly because their innovative nature delayed approving terms of reference and
partly because the tenders had to be re-bid for price and quality issues. This objective is
thus rated moderately satisfactory.



                                              11

II.      Promotion of Water Resource Conservation and Environmental Protection

This objective was to be achieved mainly by establishing national water resource
management monitoring system and preparing an action plan to improve soil quality in
irrigated lands as well as by pilots in rural sanitation, communications strategy and
improving environmental assessments of all hydraulic infrastructures (see Indicator No.
5). By project closing, the government had prepared an inventory of main sources of
water pollution and a plan for clean-up of the priority hotspots. They had also begun
collecting data on water pollution in an on-line system. The system is used to enforce
discharge standards. An action plan to reduce soil degradation was prepared and the
Ministry of Agriculture has made investment decisions on the basis of that plan.
Furthermore, environmental clauses were prepared for inclusion in standard bidding
documents and will be implemented in all future hydraulic investments.                            Local
implementing agencies received significant training in assessing potential environmental
impacts of investments. The project financed a rural sanitation strategy and two pilot
wastewater treatment operations.               MARH and MEDD are now better equipped
methodologically to promote the conservation and protection of water resources and have
established closer working relationships.

In addition, the project helped the government understand the resource and the impact of
policy and investment decisions.                  Evaluations suggest that water productivity
(agricultural production/m3) improved as a result of subsidies for localized irrigation
infrastructure (see Indicator No. 4)4.                    The project financed a number of
research/development activities that will also help improve water resource management,
although these activities initially targeted the creation of a multi-disciplinary approach to
address specific problems. This objective is thus rated satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

The PAD does not contain a specific financial analysis for the various agricultural
scenarios, nor an internal economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole, but it
does show ERRs for certain key investments (see table below). This ICR analyses
comparable schemes post facto. The estimated returns for sample irrigation schemes are
based on a draft socio-economic study prepared in 2007 by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The ERRs for irrigation schemes are estimated at 13% for new activities and 16% for
rehabilitation works, compared to 18% estimated for new activities at appraisal5. The
difference between the ERRs at project closing and appraisal appear to be the result of
lower agricultural output than anticipated.6. It is also possible that farm gate prices were
lower at project close than had been assumed at appraisal.                   Schemes using treated
wastewater have a vastly different rate of return than that calculated at appraisal. The
very high estimates in the PAD (ERRs above 50%) for reuse of treated wastewater may
be because the calculations handle the costs of treating the wastewater as sunk costs.

4Although project did not directly finance of the National Water Savings Program (PNEE), it did finance
three related training sessions and an impact assessment for the program.
5All calculations are in constant TD over a 20-year period.
6Comparisons are not possible since the PAD gives no calculation assumptions.


                                                    12

Without available appraisal calculations, the difference between estimates of returns at
appraisal and at project closing is difficult to explain.

                                                     At Appraisal     At Project Closing

  Schemes using water from tubewells                     18%              13%-16%
    Schemes using treated wastewater                      50%               10%

The average investment cost for rural water supply systems is TD 448 per user,
substantially lower than the maximum allowed, TD 600. Competition among private
operators helps to justify this strong performance. However, 43 of the 208 existing water
supply systems exceeded the maximum allowed because they are located in remote areas
and/or on difficult terrain.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

While project accomplishments were significant, and efficiency and efficacy satisfactory,
project relevance was wanting. Therefore the project is rated moderately satisfactory,
based on sub-component evaluations summarized in the table below. This assessment is
based on the indicator values given in Section F, supported by data included in Sections
3.2 and 3.3. Most of the results achieved are directly due to the project, except additional
piezometers installed by two other co-financiers (see Section 5.2) and the installation of
high efficiency irrigation technology, which was part of the government's water strategy
but not included in the project. Finally, the activity completion rate for project objectives
is rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory in all cases.

        PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SUB-OBJECTIVES                         COMPLETION RATE

I. Promotion of integrated water resource management                  Moderately satisfactory
I (i) Establishment and implementation of a sound institutional       Moderately satisfactory
framework and sector reforms for demand management.
I (ii) Improvement of the capacity of the Government, water user          Satisfactory
associations and private operators to efficiently manage water
resources.
I (iii) Facilitation of real-time management of ground and surface    Moderately satisfactory
water.
II. Promotion of water resource conservation and environmental            Satisfactory
protection


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As raised in Section 3.3 and as confirmed by the beneficiary survey, gradual
improvement of irrigation schemes has enabled beneficiaries to diversify and increase
their family revenues, contributing to labor generation and a reduction in rural migration,


                                                     13

depending on the area. The construction and rehabilitation of rural water supply systems
has generated important benefits for women and children, reducing time spent on water
collection and improving hygiene. The combination of these benefits has considerably
improved the quality of life for beneficiary rural populations although specific
information is not easily attainable. Moreover, the project has helped to implement and
strengthen water user associations and has promoted a dynamic, autonomous structure
within these associations. However, the potential benefits were larger than the actual
benefits because certain predictable risks materialized and the project did not have
adequate mitigation measures. The most important of these risks was lack of credit and
support services for irrigated farmers, which reduced the benefits farmers were able to
derive from the improved irrigation or drainage services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional improvements that the project supported relating to delegation of
management of irrigation to water user associations are important but remain fragile.
Farmer associations require continued support. Other institutional achievements relate to
the implementation of two-tier tariffs and training of key individuals in the water sector
and in the local associations, fine-tuning the government's participatory approach to
investment planning and promoting an inter-sectoral approach to applied research in the
water sector.

However, the project intended to engage in more far-reaching reforms, such as revision
of the Water Law, updating the water allocation system, and the rationalization of the
main institutions involved. As mentioned above, studies to support consideration of
options for these reforms are referred to in the PAD but not included in the cost tables
and were not pursued in supervision. These were important and would have been
beneficial and set the stage for much-needed policy reforms to help Tunisia confront its
water management challenges of the future.

(c)   Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project included a strategy for sanitation in rural areas as well as pilot treatment
activities. It did not include investment in collection of wastewater in villages, because
most service was intended to be through standposts. However, the schemes financed by
the project actually did facilitate more individual connections than anticipated (either
indoor plumbing or a connection in the courtyard). In that case, basic sanitation becomes
more important. The legal responsibility for dealing with rural sanitation is unclear, since
neither the MARH nor the wastewater utility of Tunisia has a clear mandate to deal with
the problem.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The following beneficiary surveys and workshops were undertaken for the ICR: (a) a
field survey of 480 beneficiaries in 14 irrigation schemes, nine rural drinking water
supply systems and two participatory management operations (Annex 5); and (b) a round-



                                            14

table including 40 MARH and MEDD managers, and other consultations with relevant
institutions involved in project implementation (Annex 6). These activities highlighted
the following strengths:

(a)     The project's participatory approach, involving farmers in the design,
        development and management of the irrigation services, helped make the
        infrastructure correspond better to farmers' needs;
(b)     Effective training allowed several water user associations to work closely with the
        MARH;
(c)     The new and rehabilitated irrigation schemes led to crop diversification raised
        farmer revenues, generating employment and reducing rural migration (even
        spurring reverse migration from urban to rural areas); and
(d)     Rural water supply investments greatly improved quality of life in the project
        areas, by reducing women and children's time spent collecting water and
        improving hygiene.

The assessments raised the following weaknesses:

(a)     The situation of many water user associations (GDAs) remains precarious. Some
        lack the skills necessary to perform their role and the need for intensive support is
        strong;
(b)     Consulting firms involved in project design have limited capacities and
        experience in using participatory approaches in investment planning and design;
(c)     Poor access to credit, problems with extension services, land tenure and
        marketing problems all contributed to lower rates of irrigation intensity than
        anticipated in the project-financed schemes;
(d)     The quality and reliability of the water and weak farmer capacity led to problems
        with the schemes that irrigated with treated wastewater;
(e)     The project could not always meet households' demands for water supply, given
        that the demand for individual connections was higher than anticipated; and
(f)     Female participation in rural drinking water supply user groups even though
        women are crucial to the operation of the schemes.


                   4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk that project achievements could be compromised is mainly due to the need to
continue support for the water user associations so that they can effectively manage the
infrastructure services and ensure proper maintenance. A second risk relates to the need
to formalize various action plans already prepared, such as implementation of the
SINEAU, the water quality monitoring network, and the soil quality program. These
actions should be implemented as soon as possible in order to maintain the project's
momentum and to avoid re-designing plans which could soon become obsolete. Efficient
application of these tools, i.e., irrigation systems and networks, will require adequate,
diverse, and competent staffing. This staff contingent may be difficult to maintain during


                                             15

the coming years due to retiring personnel, especially within MARH, and budget
constraints will negatively affect the ability to adequately fill these gaps.

It is likely that the second phase of the project will start in 2009 with the support of
external co-financiers, including the Bank. In the interim, MARH has adequate staff and
budget to ensure a minimum level of continuity from the first phase, e.g., to adequately
cover large-scale maintenance operations at the field level and to support water
associations. This support will be reinforced by assistance from KfW and JBIC.


                 5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The Bank actively participated in the water sector study in 1998-1999 and contributed
substantially and constructively to the project concept. Preparation missions were well-
staffed and involved several donors sharing the cost of consultants. Support to GOT was
consistent and coordinated with other co-financiers.           Moreover, the PAD and the
operational manual proved to be useful tools for the Tunisia authorities, and were
supported by detailed implementation plans for the first year of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The project was a complex and innovative sector-wide program on a national scale. It
required intensive and regular Bank supervision from a large range of technical
disciplines. This was only partially delivered. Thirteen supervision missions took place
over a seven-year period at acceptable intervals, although unevenly distributed over time
(only three missions took place from 2004 to 2006). The missions mostly included
technical and financial water specialists and an environment specialist. Two problems
were clearly identified at project start-up: (a) the absence of functional M&E system; and
(b) the need to clarify the management role of BPEH, and to resolve its financial
constraints. To address these issues, the Bank recruited a consultant in 2001 to prepare
an action plan for BPEH, and provided the technical assistance for M&E issues. The
Mid-Term Review mission of 2003 included two research specialists financed by AFD
who assisted INRGREF and other institutions in planning research activities to be
included in the project. ISR mission data systematically and accurately reflected these
issues.

However, there were some shortcomings. Mission aide-mémoires sometimes muddled
the activities included in the project with related activities undertaken by the government.
The aide-memoires also failed to document some cases where activities were modified
and/or added. The large scope of the project, requiring several types of expertise also led



                                              16

to some gaps: (a) the PAD's social assessment stated that a sociologist should participate
in supervision missions, which never occurred; (b) the PAD also stated that project
investments should be supported by strengthening of the research and extension services
of MARH in the context of an Agricultural Services Support Project which started in
2001. This could have had important positive impacts on the economic performance of
irrigation investments. However, no formal synergy between the two projects existed;
and (c) supervision missions did not discuss why the studies to contribute to important
policy reform reflections were not carried out (see Section 2.1) nor provide evidence that
they encouraged the government to proceed with the studies, nor offer financial support
for these types of analysis.

ISRs gave uniformly satisfactory ratings to the project, in contrast to some moderately
satisfactory ratings in the ICR. This discrepancy results from the opportunity to reflect
more thoroughly on the importance of our inability to judge the impact of the project-
financed activities in contrast to the highly positive realization of outputs which is more
closely considered during supervision. Merely evaluating the achievement of outputs is a
challenge for a supervision mission for a project with so many different types of activity.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The Bank's performance was diligent yet it did not bring the benefits of international best
practice to the project either in supervision or in project design.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

During project implementation and in spite of budget constraints in the early years,
Government always fulfilled its counterpart fund obligations. Moreover, GOT was able
to identify other sources of financing for activities which were considered an integral part
of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.




                                              17

During the project's early years, the coordination unit of DGFIOP included, as planned,
three full-time high level staff. However, the accountant and the procurement specialist
were replaced by a part-time staff during the course of the project. Moreover, project
M&E activities were barely satisfactory, despite repeated discussions with the Bank.
MARH must clearly assume partial responsibility for this, although the large number of
secondary implementation agencies, six central directorates and 24 CRDAs, certainly
complicated these endeavors.

(c)  Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory. (See above)


                                  6.    Lessons Learned

(a)    Need for well-defined development objective and indicators. The outputs of this
       project are significant and exceed expectations. Yet it is not possible to show that
       those investments generated their intended benefits because the objectives and
       results indicators do not reflect the activities that absorbed the greatest share of
       the funding. And the objectives that the project did have are too imprecisely
       defined to be useful to stimulate better integration, knowledge sharing and
       institutional change and as such represent a missed opportunity. This imprecision
       allowed those managing the project to focus on the component outputs rather than
       the overall strategic objective;

(b)    Importance of institutional issues. The project combined reforms and technical
       assistance with investments.      As is often the case, the project achieved or
       exceeded its objectives for "hard" investments but showed disappointing results
       with several of the "soft" activities. Although both the Bank and the Government
       made considerable efforts to address some of the institutional issues, the Bank
       could have made more efforts to help tackle some of the more difficult technical
       questions that were one reason for delays. International experiences and high-
       level consultants could have helped move some of the activities more quickly.
       This is particularly important for middle income countries like Tunisia that value
       the Bank's technical support that accompanies the loans;

(c)    Additional effort and/or resources required to overcome difficulties providing the
       technical support required while supervising a complex project. Implementation
       of complex projects requires solid and frequent supervision on the part of external
       cofinanciers and local authorities. Supervision missions were large, but the
       specific expertise was not always available to help the Government overcome
       specific technical difficulties (see above). Additional budget resources would
       have helped, but the Bank could have tried to access other sources of financing to
       bring this expertise to the project;




                                             18

(d) Need to evaluate economic returns of irrigation more carefully. The economic
    analysis conducted at appraisal was sparse (taking a very small sample of possible
    investments) and as such did not form a good basis for evaluating the economic
    impact of the project. The rates of return for the investments appear to have been
    lower than expected and the assumptions on which the economic analysis was
    based merit further analysis;

(e) Importance of social aspects. Greater attention should have been given to social
    aspects in the design and implementation of the project which would probably
    have helped to improve the performance of certain investments. For example, the
    demand for individual household water supply connections should have better
    estimated. Also, the complexity of socio-economic issues should have been better
    addressed in the context of water resource management issues.             Reducing
    consumption of groundwater is essentially an exercise in changing incentives to
    farmers and thus the groundwater management components would have benefited
    from the advice of a rural sociologist. Similarly, technical assistance supporting
    the associations of farmers managing irrigation schemes and of households
    managing rural water supply would have benefited from support from qualified
    sociologists;

(f) Promotion of synergies with other projects.       Although a parallel investment
    operation, the Agricultural Services Support Project, was intended at appraisal to
    provide extension and other support services to help farmers benefitting from this
    project's irrigation investments, no specific action was planned or took place.
    Better support to farmers to help them realize the potential of the improved
    irrigation systems would have increased the rates of return of the project-financed
    investments. Coordination between the relevant teams of the two projects could
    have helped target the on-going farmer support services to the beneficiaries of this
    project.   If coordination is important to achieving project objectives, the
    requirements should be formalized in both activities;

(g) Early planning of institutional/administrative measures. Several measures planned
    under the project were seriously delayed due to difficult bidding document
    preparation. In the case of the partial implementation of SINEAU and BPEH,
    other institutional constraints were apparent.          Institutional/administrative
    measures essential for achievement of project objectives need to be in place
    before start of the activity; and

(h) Promotion of the private sector. Projects such as this greatly contribute to the
    development of consulting firms and other Tunisian enterprises, enabling them to
    undertake more important and complex activities, i.e., studies, drilling operations,
    irrigation schemes, etc. The terms and conditions included in bidding documents
    should not only aim to ensure efficiency, but should stimulate the growth of small
    and medium-scale firms and enterprises, thus diversifying and strengthening the
    existing private sector.




                                        19

  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


(a)  Borrower/implementing agencies: Comments on an earlier draft are available
     in the project files and appropriate changes have been incorporated;

(b)  Cofinanciers : n/a; and

(c)  Other partners and stakeholders: results of extensive beneficiary and
     stakeholder consultation are included throughout.




                                           20

                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)



                                                      Actual/Latest
           Components             Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)   Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

Irrigation Management                      0.00            112.20
Groundwater Management                     0.00             80.70
Water Conservation and
Environmental Protection                   0.00               4.90

Rural Water Supply                         0.00             51.90
Institutional Strengthening and
Capacity-Building                          0.00               8.30


              Total Baseline Cost          0.00            258.00

Physical Contingencies                     0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                        0.00               0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs          0.00            258.00
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00               0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00               0.00            0.00
      Total Financing Required             0.00            258.00



    (b) Financing

                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds             Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD)                               103.00        0.00          0.00

Germany: Kreditanstalt Fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW)                                   17.50         0.00          0.00




                                             21

                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                   Project Achievements

This annex compares the quantities and expenditures planned at appraisal with the actual
situation at the end of the project and explains any differences between them. Since the
project had a programmatic quality, there was some flexibility between the Tunisian
authorities and the donors to adapt to changing circumstances, such as budget constraints
in Tunisia at the beginning of the project and the steadily strengthening Euro in the last
few years of implementation. This flexibility was a positive factor. The extension of the
project by 18 months was also positive, since it allowed the Government to make
progress on a number of the "soft" aspects of the project and exceed the original targets
for some of the physical investments.

The project suffered from delays in several "soft" activities relating to monitoring,
management, and policy. The delays were caused by several factors, including: (a) the
complex and innovative nature of the activities, requiring long consultations and
discussions for preparing terms of reference; (b) the multi-sectoral nature of some
activities which exacted a price in terms of time and effort for coordination; (c) the need
to re-bid some contracts because the bids received were much higher than the original
estimates of the cost of the activities; (d) multiple questions and requests for clarifications
from the different procurement committees.

A) Irrigation management

1) Creation of schemes using boreholes
At appraisal, the project was expected to finance 56 new schemes on a total of 3,000
hectares.   The actual implementation far exceeded this estimate, as it created 111
schemes on 6,866 ha. Unit costs were also significantly lower than those estimated
(DT7,751 per hectare compared to DT10,412 estimated at appraisal). This is probably
because of intense competition amongst suppliers and good procurement practices. It is
however surprising in light of the relevant and recent information available to the
Tunisian authorities at the time of appraisal. The supervision reports do not mention any
problems with the quality of construction. The authorities took several measures to
ensure sustainability of the investments including: requiring that the users form
associations to manage the infrastructure, systematically incorporating the views of future
users in the planning process, providing support to the user associations, applying tariffs
that met the O&M costs. These were positive aspects, but the water user associations
(GDAs/GICs) are fragile. National level evaluation suggests that 41% are good, 43%
average and 16% weak although a detailed study of groups included in the project
suggests a less rosy outlook. Of the small sample of 14 user associations, only 7% were
good while 79% were average and 14% weak. It is not clear which study has the more
reliable methodology. Where investments cost more than DT500,000 they were subject to
financial and economic analysis.        Bank missions made several recommendations to
improve the quality of these studies. Assumptions in the analysis for the irrigation



                                              22

intensity ranged from 86% to 160% in the studies, with an average of 128%. In fact the
average was 109% (ranging from 38% to 184%). The highest intensity was in the south.
Those in the north of the country were more disappointing.

2) Creation of irrigation schemes using treated wastewater
Six schemes using treated wastewater were planned covering a total area of 580 ha. Six
were actually realized with an area of 555ha. As with the borehole schemes, the unit
costs were also some 30% lower than anticipated. The irrigation intensity for these
schemes was comparable to that of borehole schemes. The average intensity foreseen at
appraisal was 126% while the actual average was 106%. The authorities took particular
care planning these schemes and supporting the beneficiaries because of the difficulties
managing the water. The water was also heavily subsidized for the users (DT 0.02/m3).
Nevertheless not all of the perimeters have a water user association and those that exist
are not yet functioning well. This is mostly because the irrigation agencies (CRDAs) still
manage the service and the user associations have little responsibility and little financial
autonomy.

One of the lessons here is that the schemes often targeted beneficiaries that were new
farmers, who were not always best placed to manage and get best value from this
challenging water source. The authorities are convinced that for this source of water, it is
important to choose experienced farmers, in locations where water is scarce.

Beneficiaries state that the quality of the water was often a problem for them. Quality
from some treatment plants was so variable that farmers began seeking alternative water
sources. However, the Tunisian authorities are convinced that works currently under
construction, once completed, will regularize the quality.

3) Rehabilitation of irrigation schemes
The intention at appraisal was to rehabilitate 40 medium-scale irrigation schemes
covering an area of 7,800ha and 14 schemes using geothermal well water covering 2,100
ha. Again, the project exceeded these objectives since it rehabilitated a total of 69
schemes covering 17,346 ha of which 133hectares were equipped with greenhouses. The
unit costs were about 25% higher than those estimated at appraisal (DT 2,470 compared
to DT 1,972 at appraisal). This discrepancy is understandable since providing unit values
for this type of rehabilitation work is particularly difficult. The same issues relating to
sustainability of investments apply in these schemes. However, the evaluation study
indicates that the water user associations function better in the rehabilitated schemes than
the national average. This is perhaps because they are older and more established than
those in newer schemes.

4) Drainage
The plan at appraisal was to install draining on 3,700 ha. This was almost entirely
achieved, since drainage equipment as installed on 3,645ha spread across nine schemes.
These investments cost DT11.8 million, or 7% more than expected. Only one of these
schemes was included in the CNEA evaluation study. This scheme, despite now having
drainage, has an intensification rate of only 76%, way below the expected 120%. One



                                             23

reason for this discrepancy is the relatively good rainfall available in this area, lowering
the demand for irrigation water.

5) Spate irrigation
Investments in this category were limited to Sidi Bouzid. The intended area was not
detailed in the appraisal documents but the project financed infrastructure covering 300
hectares, which appear to have been cost-effective because of judicious choice of sites
and highly-skilled beneficiaries.

6) Electrification and pumping stations
The project financed electrification of 234 pumping stations, for a cost of DT10.4
million, almost the amount foreseen in the appraisal document (though unit costs were
not estimated at appraisal). The water user associations appreciate these investments as
they lower their operational costs considerably.

The project also financed pumping stations to equip the boreholes created with project
financing and a few existing boreholes that had not yet been equipped. The project
equipped 309 boreholes at a cost of DT11.6 million.           This was not anticipated at
appraisal.

7) Creation of exploratory boreholes
This activity exceeded the quantity planned at appraisal, since the project financed 106
boreholes compared to 25 expected. The total expenditure was slightly lower than
anticipated but the unit cost almost five times less. It is not possible to explain this
because the assumptions in the appraisal document are not clear. This is a good example
of collaboration between the DGRE who was in charge of the works, and the DGGRE
and its local offices, who were responsible for execution and follow-up.

8) Water for livestock
This activity equipped watering stations for livestock. Seventeen were planned and 19
achieved for a total cost of DT6.8 million, slightly more than anticipated (i.e. unit costs
were lower than anticipated).

9) Cleaning of canals and river beds
This activity was added in 2006 and 2007 to repair flood damage. Total cost was DT5.6
million.

10) Socio-economic study
The project financed a study that aimed to estimate the performance of irrigation
investments in the project and to identify constraints to better performance. It covered 28
schemes financed in this project and in two previous Bank-financed projects that included
irrigation investments in 18 governorates.       Despite having collected a considerable
quantity of interesting data, the quality of this study was not as good as expected, since
the conclusions remain too general.




                                             24

B) Groundwater Management

1) Creation of boreholes
Three hundred and ten boreholes were planned at a cost of DT58.1 million. This was
reduced to 250 boreholes because of Tunisian budget constraints. In fact 317 were
completed of which 215 are operational and have been transferred to DGGRE to put them
to use. The unit cost was only 66% of that expected at appraisal. This reduction was the
result of two principal factors. First, although some were extremely deep, the boreholes
were not as deep as expected. Second, the introduction of private companies competing
for the works drove down prices. But it remains surprising that the Government should
have overestimated the costs to such an extent.

The boreholes had success rate of 70%, which is considered good, especially considering
that the best sites had already been exploited. The flow was also good, with the result
that when they are equipped, these boreholes could supply water to some 7,500 ha
providing livelihoods to several thousand farmers.

2) Piezometers
At appraisal, the project was to finance purchase of 610 piezometers, which was revised
down to 355 because of budget constraints.        In fact 482 were purchased (partially
financed by an Italian grant and a loan from the African Development Bank). The project
itself financed 388 piezometers. Unit costs were considerably lower than expected. This
is again probably due to good procurement practices and increased competition. The
project also financed rehabilitation of 115 piezometers of which 89 were successful. The
rehabilitation costs about 7% of the purchase of new equipment. The project also
financed equipment of 271 measuring stations for a total cost of DT2.7 million. This was
not anticipated at appraisal.

3) Pilot artificial recharge
The project planned to finance 11 artificial recharge sites in seven aquifers to increase
recharge between 35 and 50 million m3. Ten sites have been undertaken and are at
different stages of completion. The first eight are completed and two are underway. The
total costs were estimated at DT7.8 million but actual costs were only DT2.8 million (at
the time of the ICR mission). The results are satisfactory for the eight completed sites.
The level of the aquifer is rising near the recharge site and in coastal aquifers the
investment appears to be improving the quality of the groundwater. These investments
have also brought important lessons and expertise to the Tunisian officials concerned.

4) National information system for water (SINEAU)
At appraisal, it was planned to launch a real-time groundwater management system,
SINEAU. This was to cost DT280,000 in planning and another DT680,000 in installation
and training. This activity suffered serious delays. The firm selected only began working
in February 2003 and delivered their report in February 2007, far later than scheduled.
The delays were partly the result of the innovative nature of the system and also because
of the need to coordinate with the large number of relevant government bodies. The




                                             25

DGRE decided to leave installation of the system to the second phase of the project, and
piloted its own partial information system.

5) Optimization of the networks
This activity, aiming to integrate and improve the functioning of the hydrometric and
piezometric networks, cost DT5 million. This study was delayed because the offers were
excessively costly and had to be re-bid. The study was split into three and two of the
three studies were received in 2007 and one was expected just after the closing of the
project. This activity also financed modernization of data collection in the Mejerda
valley for DT430,000 and an automated real-time data collection system for rainwater to
allow better prediction of floods. The cost of this sub-component is DT2.7 million.
Through this and other activities, the DGRE is in the process of obtaining a very good
tool for monitoring water resources. Delays have of course hindered progress and the
DGRE rightly prefers to await the completion of the studies before proposing next steps.
Lack of personnel and operational budget has contributed to the delays.

6) Decision support tool
This pilot operation aimed to help decision-making around water resource management.
If successful, this tool should enable the Government to develop a strategy for sustainable
development of water resources that integrates physical and chemical constraints, as well
as socio-economic characteristics. The project intended to finance an inventory as well
as equipment and training for DT4 million.

An international call for tenders for one aquifer was launched in 2001 was cancelled
because the costs of the bids were too high. DGRE had to redesign the terms of reference
and launch a national call for tenders which eventually led to signing of a contract in
2005. A contract for a second aquifer is underway. The reason for the delay of this
component is primarily the innovative nature of the work

7) Pilot project in participatory aquifer management
The objective of this activity is to help users of groundwater develop a plan for managing
their aquifer. To do this, it was necessary to integrate various technical and socio-
economic considerations into a participatory process. The project had planned to spend
DT4.6 million on studies, equipment and training. Based on one successful experience,
the Ministry chose the irrigation agency (CDRA) staff to be those responsible for
persuading the users to change their behavior. CRDA staff could absorb this task into
their overall work programs and did not need additional funding.             Thus project
expenditure was limited on this activity. Since 2004 there have been a number of
workshops and initiatives, and as of project closing, activities to improve user awareness
of water management issues was underway in several aquifers across the country.
Nevertheless, the objectives have not yet been achieved.




                                              26

C) Conservation of water and environmental protection

1) Evaluation of salinization and other forms of soil degradation
Maps showing areas at risk of salinization and other forms of degradation have been
produced covering the entire country. The study includes an action plan for prevention
and restoration of sodic lands, improved monitoring and capacity building. The work
shows the importance of including soil quality in the agricultural planning process.

2) Inventory of potential sources of water pollution
The inventory identifies 756 sources of pollution on maps, a database on ACCESS and an
election plan for reducing the pollution and cleaning up the key hotspots. The estimated
cost of cleanup is DT78 million.

3) Establishment of a national network to monitor water pollution
The study identifies 206 pollution hotspots (77 for groundwater and 129 for surface
water) as suitable for a national monitoring network. A plan for installing this network is
included.

4) Use of treated wastewater
The project financed a study to evaluate options for using treated wastewater in non-
agricultural sectors. The study identifies eleven projects which could profitably use this
source of water, using 11.6 million m3 of water per year.             It also financed some
modifications to treatment plants to see if technical problems associated with reuse of
treated wastewater can be resolved. These had limited success but brought some useful
lessons.

5) Rural sanitation
The sectoral environmental assessment carried out for the project identified the need for
pilot rural sanitation activities to go hand in hand with the investments in rural water
supply. The idea was to test different institutional and management models as well as
different treatment technologies. There were three sites constructed for DT1 million.
Each system had technical and/or institutional problems, not least because the
institutional responsibility for rural sanitation in Tunisia is unclear. These pilots plus the
investments to promote use of treated wastewater in agriculture have some lessons for the
sector in the future.

6) Evaluation of standards for using sludge in agriculture
The study was completed in 2007. It shows that the sampled sludges do not contain the
most problematic contaminants and study needs to be conducted on a larger sample to
confirm the findings in the future.

D) Rural Water Supply

At appraisal, the project was intended to finance 160 systems to serve 100,000 people in
22 governorates at a maximum cost of DT600 per person at a total expenditure of DT
59.3 million. The project actually financed 208 systems serving 171,000 inhabitants at a



                                               27

total cost of DT56 million at the time of the ICR mission. This implies a unit cost of
around DT400 per person, significantly lower than foreseen. The eligibility criteria were
fulfilled though the requirement of a minimum population to be served was not clearly
documented. Construction quality appears to be good as does quality of water supplied.
Sustainability of the investments depends on how well the water user associations
function. About half of those involved in the rural water supply schemes financed by the
project existed before the project. The other half were created to manage the project-
financed infrastructure. The evaluation study conducted for this ICR indicates that
maintenance might become a serious issue as only one quarter of the water user
associations are allocating sufficient funds for maintenance. Most tariffs are volume-
based but some have a fixed component as well. Yet the total tariffs charged are greater
than that charged by SONEDE (the urban water supply utility) for similar levels of
consumption, which poses an equity issue.           The high costs are partly due to low
consumption and partly due to elevated costs of providing the service since standposts
have to be guarded.      The original plan was to provide standposts, yet demand for
individual connections was very high, even higher than the capacity of the authorities to
provide them, even when the beneficiaries were prepared to undertake the investment
costs. This contributed to the high rate of illegal connection in many rural systems.

The project also intended to rehabilitate 70 rural water supply systems at a cost of DT6.6
million. This also was exceeded, since the project actually financed rehabilitation of 75
systems. In contrast to the new systems, here the unit costs were higher than expected,
DT144,000 rather than DT95,000. It is unclear why these costs were higher but it may
relate to a lower-than-expected number of beneficiaries.


E) Capacity Enhancement

1) Research
At appraisal 7 projects of research were planned. Five of them have been completed: (i)
irrigation techniques in conditions of scarcity, (ii) technical and economic optimization of
systems to cool geothermal water, (iii) techniques for using treated wastewater, (iv)
modeling demand for water as a means of planning allocation, (v) problems with water
user associations. These projects have in general allowed considerable advances in
knowledge and development of tools; they have also promoted more applied research in
water in Tunisia and brought together multi-disciplinary teams. The research projects
were the basis for several postgraduate degrees and helped forge international research
partnerships.

2) Training
The plan was to conduct distance learning, continuing education and university courses
for specific groups as well as training for irrigation agencies in environmental assessment
requirements. These courses took place, including equipping the research centers with
distance learning facilities.




                                              28

3) Review and update of standard bidding documents
At appraisal it was planned to update environmental provisions of standard bidding
documents or companies and for agreements with water user associations. 103 clauses
have been formulated.

4) Training for water user associations
Three modules of training were planned.          These took place and were successful.
However, continued support and training will be necessary.

5) Priority studies
Several studies were planned : one on water saving, one on tariffs, one on cost
accounting, and a feasibility study for rehabilitation in the Mejerda valley to be financed
by KfW. DGGR did the study on water saving in 2001. This was complemented by
KfW financed evaluation and training. The project financed a study on public awareness,
but the plan could not be implemented because the quality of the work by the firm
contracted was not acceptable to the government.

The study on cost accounting was carried out and is in the process of being implemented
for one CRDA.

6) Establishment of a socio-economic unit
The appraisal foresaw a socio-economic unit that could eventually evolve into a body
charged with inter-sectoral planning and strategy. The Government decided to broaden
its responsibilities and established the Office for Planning Water Balances. This office
has not yet been fully staffed, however.




                                            29

                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Introduction

The objective of this analysis is a comparison between the economic and financial rates
of return planned during project preparation and an assessment of what will ultimately be
achieved on the ground at full development. The Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) is under preparation when the project attains its closure, i.e., soon after completion
of the last project investments. At present, certain activities have started to yield impacts
whereas others have only just been launched. Regarding agricultural development, more
specifically irrigation, a period of five years following the completion of investments is
often necessary to ascertain the full impact of benefits generated. This is why the
economic and financial analysis prepared for the ICR includes proven data (investment
costs, operating costs and actual production rates) as well as estimates on cropping
intensities and agricultural production once the project will have reached its full
development potential.

The Water Sector Investment Loan (WSIL) aimed to assist the Ministry of Agriculture
and Water Resources (MARH) with the implementation of its investment program which
was conceived based on a programmatic approach, thus ensuring the flexibility required
for implementation. This is why only the first year's program has been described in
detail, whereas a broader and more general envelope of activities was provided for the
two subsequent project years. Therefore, and as stated in the first paragraph of Annex 4
of the PAD, "This lack of detail [provided for project years 2 and 3] makes it difficult to
conduct a comprehensive cost benefit analysis, although indicative rates of return are
presented for some of the key investment components accounting for over 70 percent of
total project costs". The estimates cover the following:

(a)     Cost-benefit analyses for deep tubewell exploration;
(b)     Cost-benefit analyses for small tubewells; and
(c)     Cost-benefit analyses of treated wastewater reuse activities.

Annex 4 of the PAD, "Cost Benefit Analysis Summary", includes some economic
hypotheses but gives no details on the actual calculations made. Since the ICR mission
did not have access to working documents prepared for the PAD, a comparison of results
cannot result in a detailed analysis. In fact, if the mission had been given hypothetical
cost scenarios for investments, operations, outputs, and economic production, it would
have been possible to justify the differences in rates of return obtained.

In order to follow as closely as possible analyses undertaken at appraisal and to acquire
lessons learned from the WSIL, thus facilitating the preparation of the second phase
program, the cost-benefit analyses prepared during the ICR mission focused on three
models, as follows.

(a)     Development of irrigation schemes based on exploration tubewells, including a
        test demonstrating their investment returns;



                                             30

(b)       Rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes; and
(c)       Development and rehabilitation of irrigation schemes using treated wastewater.

These three models represent together more than half the total investment costs for the
WSIL.

Annex 4 of the PAD gives no information on the project's cost effectiveness. However,
the ICR includes data obtained from Tunisian farmers on rates of return under various
hypothetical scenarios.       By comparing the gross production margins of the "before
project" and "actual" scenarios based on surveys conducted by the National Center for
Agricultural Studies (CNEA)7, it is possible to ascertain which scenarios are most
appealing to farmers.

B. General

In the beginning of Annex 4 of the PAD, a general presentation is given on the expected
benefits from the main components of the WSIL. The following sections of the ICR will
reassess these benefits in light of concrete data obtained by the ICR mission.

All sub-projects for tubewell irrigation under WSIL were subjected to economic selection
criteria whose application had already been tested under the two previous projects, ASIL
and ASIL-2. Sub-projects with a cost equal or less than TD5,000/ha were not subject to
an economic analysis. Sub-projects with a cost exceeding TD5,000/ha but less than
TD500,000 were subject to a simplified cost-benefit analysis and were required to
demonstrate a benefit ratio greater than 1.0. Sub-projects with an estimated total cost of
more than TD500,000 were subjected to a feasibility study with a complete cost-benefit
analysis and were required to have a minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of 10%.
For irrigation scheme sub-projects, the ERR was increased to 15%. During the project,
Bank supervision missions have regularly assessed these issues and made
recommendations for quality improvement. To achieve precise methodology for cost-
effectiveness calculations, a training program was organized for consultant firms working
closely with DGREE.

It was anticipated that treated wastewater reuse activities would result in significant
agronomic, economic and environmental benefits.                    Besides increased agricultural
productivity, DEP believed that such controlled land applications would reduce, through
natural processes, the amount of chemical and organic contaminants entering surface
water and groundwater. These wastewater reuse activities would have also help to
decrease the level of financial investments needed to make new sources of water
available to Tunisian farmers. Although the initial objective of developing irrigation
schemes with treated wastewater has been achieved overall, the results are mitigated.
One reason for this is the uneven provision of treated wastewater, both qualitatively and


7Republic of Tunisia, Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources, Socio-Economic Impact Assessment
of Irrigation Schemes financed under the ASIL, ASIL-2, and WSIL.




                                                  31

quantitatively. Water treatment plants were going to address the water quality issue, thus
alleviating farmers' reticence to irrigate their lands with treated wastewater. Moreover,
these investments were less cost-effective than anticipated and the ICR mission was not
able to identify measures that significantly reduced chemical and organic pollution of
surface and groundwater.

The objective of the rural water supply component was improved access to safe and
potable water for 100,000 rural dwellers and to help raise the country's service coverage
from 78% to 90% by the end of the project. Better access to potable water was expected
to reduce the cost of water to beneficiary households in terms of time, energy, and
money, especially for women and children. There were three eligibility criteria for the
selection of potable water supply systems: (a) a cost ceiling of TD600 per person; (b) a
minimal target population to be served8; and (c) the creation of water user and fisheries
associations from the outset. By the end of the project period, an additional 171,000
individuals had been served, i.e., 171% of project targets and the criteria had been
fulfilled overall.

The objective of the institutional strengthening and capacity-building component of the
project was to achieve better coordination of water resource planning and
implementation.       The integrated water resource management approach aimed at
improving activity coordination among the multiple technical units involved in water
resource management which would result in higher cost-effectiveness of public
investments. A planning unit for water resource management was created within the
cabinet of the Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources. However, other initiatives
planned suffered from implementation delays.            This is why the final hydrological
information report, "SINEAU", has only been available since February 2007 and the
responsible entities chose to wait for the second phase financing of WSIL before
preparing bidding documents.         Delays also occurred during implementation of the
monitoring water resource networks, the preparation of the decision-making tool for
water resource management and the pilot participatory management sub-project. It is
clear that the ultimate effects of institutional strengthening will only have an impact when
the above tools become fully operational.

C. Financial Analysis

As previously mentioned, the financial analysis will present only gross margins achieved
by farmers prior to the project and during the CNEA survey conducted at the end of the
project. In the course of the survey, farmers had acquired developed or rehabilitated land
for only three years on average, whereas it is proven that six to ten years are required to
fully benefit from the introduction of improved technology.

The following data are presented for the three economic and financial analysis models.
The first model is based on data collected by CNEA in 12 tubewell irrigation schemes
which were financed by the WSIL, covering a total area of 760 ha located in central

8DEP did not specify this minimum number.




                                               32

  Tunisia (82%) and southern Tunisia (18%). The second model relies on data from three
  rehabilitated irrigation schemes from the ASIL, ASIL-2 and WSIL, covering a total area
  of 1,071 ha located in central Tunisia (18%) and the remainder in the south of the
  country. The four schemes surveyed by CNEA used for the third model cover 947 ha,
  two-thirds of which are located in central Tunisia and the balance in the south, and relate
  to the creation or rehabilitation of irrigation schemes which use treated wastewater.

  The table below gives crop margins only for the main target groups, namely cereals,
  winter fodder, summer fodder, winter market gardening, summer market gardening and
  arboriculture. For each group, only the two or three main crops are listed.

             Table 1: Evolution of Gross Margins in the Three Selected Scenarios


     Crops                                        Gross Margins (TD/ha)
                          Creation of                Rehabilitation of        Treated Wastewater
                      Irrigation Schemes            Irrigation Schemes         Irrigation Schemes
                   Pre-      During    Full      Pre-    During       Full  Pre-    During     Full
                  Project    Project   Dev.     Project  Project     Dev.  Project  Project    Dev.
Wheat, rainfed      103       184                 81        106             103
Barley, rainfed     73        159                 81        88
Wheat                         351       591                                            342
Barley                        159       392                 182       253
Oats/hay                      210       331                 274       321              237      335
Berseem                                           73        211       512              461      632
Alfalfa             423       812      1,289      423      1,127     1,437            1,232    1,730
Sorghum                       441       625                 542       668              682      754
Beans/peas                    645      1,510                638      1,599
Potatoes                     1,138     1,871               1,189     2,000
Melons                       1,519     2,068               1,766     2,444
Chili Peppers                1,293     2,502    1,303      2,906     3,570
Tomatoes                     2,232     3,128     1,348     1,892     2,899
Olives, rainfed     320       323                 190                       240
Olives                        618       755       277       563       563              767      830
Dates                        1,862     2,296      581      1,866     1,866
Apple trees                   845      1,945      712      1,662     1,662            1,203    2,152

  As shown in the Excel tables attached, the gross margins have been calculated by
  attributing production values to the financial farm prices and by deducting production
  costs, i.e., seeds, fertilizer, treatment agents, mechanization, labor and irrigation water.
  The gross margin is also a good indicator of farmer crop preferences, although farmers
  closely monitor market security indices, climate risks and the adoption of more
  productive cropping techniques.

  Tunisian farmers have shown great interest in obtaining irrigation services as shown by
  comparing gross margins for rainfed and irrigated crops, especially since rainfall is weak
  and erratic. This explains why some northern well-irrigated areas have cropping intensity
  patterns well below projected levels. However, in semi-arid areas, farmers are much
  more aware of the value of water and the cropping intensity patterns are much higher.



                                                 33

D. Economic Analysis

This section is divided into two separate parts. The first section describes the results of
the economic analysis carried during appraisal and the second summarizes the analysis
conducted in the context of the ICR.

Economic Analysis Results from the PAD

In the cost-benefit analyses for deep tubewell exploration activities, the PAD was based
on all available data at preparation, i.e., investment costs (tubewells and creation of
irrigation schemes) and O&M costs. Benefit assessments have been prepared based on
three types of cropping patterns:

(a)     M1: irrigated cereal and fodder crops on 88% of farmlands, 15% for legumes and
        10% for market gardening;
(b)     M2: mid-range cropping intensities; and
(c)     M3: various market gardening crops, 50%, and peppers, 50%.

Other important project hypotheses would be as follows:

(a)     Project period: 20 years;
(b)     All calculations are made in constant prices;
(c)     The investments of the first two project years;
(d)     A specific conversion rate of 84% was used for investments;
(e)     Pumps are replaced every seven years;
(f)     Specific conversion rates were used for production and agricultural inputs.
        Unskilled labor was given a 70% rate; and
(g)     The opportunity cost for capital was given a 10% rate.

Table 2, below, gives the results of the economic analysis and those of two other
scenarios selected by DEP. The ERR for the first model is quite high at 18.2, including a
net current value of TD12.8 million in the M1 cropping pattern mentioned above.
However, the report does not give the ERRs for scenarios M2 and M3, which should
clearly be higher that in the case of M1. Sensitivity analyses show that the ERR is not
subject to price increases or benefits delayed by one or two years. In fact, the ERR still
stands at 15.9% if investments increase by 10%, and at 14.6% and 12.9%, respectively, if
benefits are delayed by one or two years.




                                            34

                Table 2: Cost-Effectiveness of the Three Appraisal Models

         Categories           Deep Tubewells         Small Tubewells       Treated Wastewater
ERR                                 18.2                   18.1                 Above 50
Net Current Value                   12.8                   12.4
Sensitivity Analyses (%)
Investment Costs (+10%)             15.9                   15.7
Benefits delayed by 1 year          14.6
Benefits delayed by 2 years         12.9
Critical Values (%)
Decrease in benefits                                        34
Price Increases                                             58

For the cost-benefit analysis for tubewell irrigation, available data from 51 small-scale
irrigation schemes were used. Benefits were estimated to start in year 3 at a rate of 40%,
increasing to 60%, 80% and 100% during the following years.

Data provided by DEP for the cost-benefit analysis of treated wastewater reuse are
somewhat artificial. The cropping pattern is 22% for cereals, 45% for fodder, 45% for
tree crops and 4% for industrial crops (without the project, cereals are rainfed).
Regarding investment costs, water treatment plants are already operational and can thus
be considered as "sunk" costs. The costs taken into consideration are the start-up costs
for new irrigation schemes, and O&M costs are estimated on the basis of existing
schemes. The ERR thus obtained is surprisingly high at 50%, even though water is
provided at no charge by "STEP" since all other investments costs remain, i.e., transport
of water to the irrigated perimeter and installation of the irrigation infrastructure works.

Results of the ICR Economic Analysis

This analysis covers three models similar to those prepared by DEP and which also
correspond to important irrigation investment categories. These models were conceived
by the total results achieved within different schemes assessed by CNEA and which
include average data for a fictitious average-sized irrigated perimeter.

The ERR calculated at the time of project completion is well below the rates estimated at
appraisal: 18.2% for deep tubewells and 18.1% for small tubewells. The current net
value is also lower, representing TD12.8 million and TD12.4 million, respectively, for
both models.

An assessment was also carried out to estimate the return from irrigation schemes which
collect water from exploration tubewells. The selected hypothesis shows that the cost of
this type of tubewell, excluding investments made for equipment which represent
approximately one third of the total cost, is considered a "sunk" cost since its purpose is
to study the watertable.




                                             35

    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


    (a) Task Team members


           Names                           Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Jaafar Sadok Friaa         Sr. Environmental Spec.             MNSSD
Claire Kfouri              Water and Sanitation Specialist     MNSSD
Hassan Lamrani             Senior Irrigation Specialist        MNSSD

Douglas W. Lister          Consultant                          MNSRE
                                                               (MNSSD
Dominique Jean Daniel                                          MNSRE
Poitrinal                                                     (MNSSD)
Jose Simas                 Lead Water Resources Engineer       MNSSD
Zakia Chummun              Language Program Assistant          MNSSD
Rory C. O'Sullivan         Consultant                          EACVF
Jurgen Johann Blanken      Consultant                          MNSRE
Nathalie E. Abu-Ata        Operations Officer                  WBIRC

    (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93                                                                     0.30
  FY94                                                                    22.42
  FY95                                                                     6.27
  FY96                                                                     6.18
  FY97                                                                    40.63
  FY98                                                                    53.96
  FY99                                                                   282.20
  FY00                                         55                         85.04
  FY01                                         14                         37.11
  FY02                                          3                          0.00
  FY03                                                                     0.00
  FY04                                                                     0.00
  FY05                                                                     0.00
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                     0.00
                           Total:              72                        534.11



                                            36

Supervision/ICR
 FY93                                 0.00
 FY94                                 3.15
 FY95                                 0.00
 FY96                                 5.88
 FY97                                 1.87
 FY98                                 0.00
 FY99                                 0.00
 FY00                                87.49
 FY01                          7     67.68
 FY02                         10    108.73
 FY03                         15    111.96
 FY04                         13     97.68
 FY05                         13    100.18
 FY06                         13    154.28
 FY07                         22    179.63
 FY08                          9      0.00
                   Total:    102    918.53




                            37

                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

                                         Summary

A participatory evaluation was conducted with the goal of understanding the perspective
of the beneficiaries, focusing on those areas with most beneficiary involvement:
irrigation, rural water and participatory aquifer management. The study covered 12
irrigation schemes in four governorates, two schemes using treated wastewater, nine rural
drinking water sites, and two participatory aquifer management sites. The evaluation
team included a gender specialist. The study involved semi-structured interviews of 480
people, of which 105 were women.

Summary of results

Rehabilitation and creation of irrigation schemes:

(a)     The majority of interviewees stated that the project has helped them increase
        agricultural production on land that was deteriorating rapidly before the project.
        Farmers have invested in tree crops, fruits and vegetables and equipped their land
        with localized irrigation such as drip. Some schemes even report that project-
        financed new schemes led to reverse migration, where people who had migrated
        to the city to look for work returned to their land when the infrastructure was
        created;
(b)     Land tenure is highly variable. In one rehabilitation scheme (Utique) only one
        third of the farmers has formal tenure, with important consequences on their
        ability to invest and increase agricultural productivity. Land tenure was not
        properly addressed in the creation of many new schemes;
(c)     Salinity of surface and groundwater as well as of soils is an increasing problem
        for farmers and irrigation managers alike;
(d)     Water user associations often consist of high caliber people, who have improved
        irrigation management locally.       They require considerable further support
        however, and in some cases were set up with considerable disadvantages to
        overcome from the start. For example, some user associations (GDAs in the
        French acronym) inherited debts from the earlier form of association (GIC) from
        whom they took over. Others were taking over schemes that had only been
        partially rehabilitated or where the water service was inadequate.      They are
        undercut in their management of surface water when some members have access
        to groundwater from wells. GDAs managing new schemes request more frequent
        technical assistance visits;
(e)     Many farmers find the water price to be excessive, and some claim to cultivate
        rainfed wheat rather than an irrigated crop for that reason;
(f)     Farmers request more technical support on cropping patterns and irrigation
        management practices. Inexperienced beneficiaries who were not able to take
        advantage of the investments and did not receive sufficient support was a
        particular problem in the new schemes;



                                             38

(g)    Problems with road infrastructure in winter discourages some farmers from
       producing winter crops and taking full advantage of the new or rehabilitated
       infrastructure; and
(h)    While one of the two schemes using treated wastewater analyzed in this study was
       successful, the second one (in Gabes) was particularly problematic. Farmers
       received six months of training plus credit and subsidies for specific investments.
       However, most of the beneficiaries were young and not experienced farmers,
       some of the technical advice turned out to be wrong (e.g. recommending tree
       crops not suited to the zone) and difficulties sequencing the investments in
       irrigation infrastructure with those in the wastewater treatment plant meant that
       water supply in the crucial early few months was not reliable and the quality was
       often poor. Many beneficiaries simply abandoned the schemes.

Rural drinking water

(a)    Beneficiaries expressed strong satisfaction with the improved service, citing
       dramatically reduced time spent getting water, reduced costs of water supply.
       Water has allowed women in one site (Ouled Hammouda) to spend the time freed
       from collecting water to raise cattle for milk and processing agricultural
       production (drying raisins, figs, olive oil);
(b)    User associations interviewed were on the whole satisfied with the technical
       support they received. However, they do not have sufficient revenues to assure
       maintenance of the infrastructure in the long-term and neither the financial nor
       technical capacity to take on the autonomy they are intended to have;
(c)    Social tensions over access to water have broken out in some sites, e.g. in
       Smairia, Gafsa, where the irrigation agency drilled boreholes for irrigation
       without consulting other potential users and establishing clear rules for who takes
       water when and with what priority;
(d)    Some schemes draw water from old deteriorated infrastructure, which breaks
       down and leaks. This prejudices the quality of service of the new systems; and
(e)    Inaccurate meters cause problems for the GDAs to bill their members for service.
       They also cause problems between GDAs when several share a resource and the
       uncertainty about how much water is delivered can be as high as 45%. These
       disputes can lead to service cuts.

Participatory Aquifer management

This novel approach did not receive the attention it merited from the government or the
donors.




                                             39

                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

 PISEAU Impact Evaluation Workshop November 1-2, 2007 ­ Hammamet, Tunisia

Workshop Objective:

As part of the PISEAU ICR process, a workshop was held with approximately 40 project
stakeholders (CRDA representatives and Directors of DGGR, DGRE and DGFIOP) to (i)
Evaluate the socio-economic, institutional and environmental impacts of the PISEAU and
(ii) Define/ assess the sustainability of project achievements, elaborate on implementation
constraints and draw lessons learned for potential PISEAU replication. The evaluation
focused on 4 key project components: Irrigation management, groundwater management,
rural water supply and water conservation/environment. Key lessons learned include:

Irrigation management

(a)     Continue to build/reinforce the managerial capacity of local GDA's through
        enhanced     training,  inter-GDA     exchange   of   information/experience      and
        coordination with other concerned stakeholders/agencies;
(b)     Mobilize non-conventional water sources for creation of Perimetres Irrigues (PI)
        including treated wastewater and geothermal groundwater;
(c)     Reinforce legal project aspects specifically: resolve land acquisition issues at
        project design phase and take action to prohibit illegal PI irrigation extensions;
(d)     Include the participatory approach in consultant and GDA TOR's to optimize
        investment sustainability; and
(e)     Revise procurement criteria for selection of consultants, works and goods
        contracts.

Rural Water Supply

 (a)    Include participatory approach in consultant TOR's and ensure that selected
        consultants have strong capacity in this domain;
 (b)    Ensure that GDA's are adequately trained to supervise technical project aspects.
        Maintain simple project designs;
 (c)    Ensure better integration of beneficiaries and stakeholder coordination in project
        design and implementation phases; and
 (d)    Adapt and harmonize the various/conflicting eligibility criteria of different
        financing sources.

Groundwater management

 (a)    Elaborate analysis of Bssissi PI for application/replication to PI's in other
        zones/regions;
 (b)    Continue to reinforce/build GDA capacity in identification;
 (c)    Make necessary amendments to Water Code and actual jurisdiction of GDA's;
        and



                                              40

(d)   Create required socio-economic incentives to ensure participatory approach to
      water resources management.

Water conservation/environment

(a)   Apply all action plans developed under PISEAU;
(b)   Integrate all studies and action plans by elaborating a coherent strategy for
      sustainable development/management of water resources; and
(c)   Reconsider the organizational and institutional framework of agencies involved in
      environmental management. Clarify the roles and capacity requirements of each
      to ensure maximum coordination and communication for successful project
      design and implementation.




                                         41

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments
                   on Draft ICR




                        42

43

44

45

46

47

    Annex 8. Comments of co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



n/a




                                   48

                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


A. Project Implementation Plan

Plan d'Exécution du PISEAU, Ministère de l'Agriculture, février 2000

B. Bank Staff Assessments

PCD, November 11, 1999
Pre-Appraisal Mission: BTO dated December 17, 1999
Appraisal Mission: BTO dated March 23, 2000
Technical notes on artificial recharge, the national programme for water saving, tariffs,
and social assessment of GDAs.
Stakeholder assessments, beneficiary workshop reports

C. Others

Etude sur le Secteur de l'Eau, avril 1999, BECHTEL/SCET-Tunisie/Ministère de
l'Agriculture
Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan-ASIL2, December 30, 1997, PAD           Report
no. 17208-TUN
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan-ASIL, October 29, 1993, Staff Appraisal Report no.
12229-TUN
Sectoral Environmental Assessment, April 2000
Social Review, March 2000
Manuel de Procedures




                                             49

MAPS




50

51

52

53

