Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18359-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR73.5 MILLION
(US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
April 19, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



i
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Designated for Negotiations, October 22, 1998
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Indonesian Rupiah = US$0.0001
US$1 = 7,500 Indonesian Rupiah
SDRI = 1.3546 US$        (end March 1999)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
APRIL 1-MARCH 31
ACRONYMS
ADB                               Asian Development Bank
AMDAL                             Environmental Impact Assessment
ANDAL                             Environmental Impact Statement
APBD                              Annual district development budget
APEF                              Annual Project Expenditures and Financing
APBN                              Annual central government development budget
Bappenas                          National Development Planning Agency
Bappeda I/II                      Provincial/district Planning Agency
BANGDA                            Directorate General for Regional Development, MoHA
BKKBN                             National Family Planning Board
BPKP                              Central Audit Bureau
BPS                               National Statistics Bureau
BRI                               Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Bupati/Walikota                   District/city head
CPEF                              Cumulative Project Expenditures and Financing
DPUK                              Kabupaten Department of Public Works
CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
GOI                               Govemment of Indonesia
INPRES                            Presidential Instruction (a central block grant)
IMF                               International Monetary Fund
Kabupaten/kotamadya               District/municipality
KDP                               Kecamatan Development Project
Kecamatan                         Subdistrict
Kelurahan/lurah                   Urban section comprising on average 10 RWs/ head of kelurahan
LKMD                              Village/kelurahan management group
KPKN                              Local Office of National Treasury
LIL                               Learning and Innovation Loan
MoF                               Ministry of Finance
MoHA                              Ministry of Home Affairs
MPW                               Ministry of Public Works
NGO                               Non-governmental organization (same as LSM)
OC                                Oversight consultant
PDM-DKE                           Crisis related social safety program
PHRD                              Japanese Grant
PMD                               Directorate General of Community Development, MoHA
PMU                               Project Management Unit
Pimpro/PjOK                       Project Administrative Manager (pimpinan proyek)
RKL/RPL                           Environmental Management/ Monitoring Plan
RW                                Neighborhood with some 500 Families (rukun warga)
SAL                               Structural Adjustment Loan
SPAPB                             Grants from central to local governments
SUSENAS                           National Household Expenditure Survey
UKL/UPL                           Environmental Management / Monitoring Procedures
VIP                               Village Infrastructure Project
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Mark Baird
Sector Manager: Keshav Varna
Task Manager: Frida Johansen



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD                                      Page ii
INDONESIA
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ..............................................2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ................................................................. 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................................4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project component ............................................................................S5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................................6
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................                        6
4. Benefits and target population ................................................................7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .....................8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .........................................................9
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership ................................................................9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ................................................................9
2  Financial ...............................................................                                                            10
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                            10
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                         11
5. Social ...............................................................11 
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                             11
7. Participatory approach ...............................................................11 
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                      12
2. Critical risks ...............................................................                                                       12
3. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                                       12
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ...............................................................                                             13
2. Other ...............................................................                                                                13
H. Readiness for Implementation ...............................................................                                                     13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...............................................................                                                    13
Annexes



iii
Annex 1              Project Design Summary ..........................................                                                15
Key Performance Indicators .......................................... 16
Annex 2 Project Description.17
Annex 3              Estimated Project Costs ..........................................                                               34
Annex 4              Economic Analysis (n.a.) ..........................................                                             34
Annex 5              Financial Summary .......................................... 34
Annex 6              Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing Arrangements ..........................................                    35
Al   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..........................................                       40
A2    Consultant Selection Arrangements ...........................................                             40
B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ......................................... 41
C      Allocation of Credit Proceeds ..........................................                                 41
Annex 7              Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..........................................                               42
Annex 8              Documents in the Project File ..........................................                                        43
Annex 9              Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia ...........................................                         44
Annex 10             Country at a Glance ..........................................                                                   46
Annex 11             Project Implementation Plan ..........................................                                          47
Annex 12             UPP Implementation Agreement Formats ..........................................                                  51
Annex 13             Land Acquisition and Resettlement Guidelines ..........................................                          61
Annex 14             Environmental Guidelines ..........................................                                              62
Map No. 29868



INDONESIA
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Indonesia Country Department
Date: April 19,1999                                 Task Manager: Frida Johansen
Country Director: Mark Baird                        Sector Manager: Keshav Varma
Project ID: ID-PE-55821     Sector: Urban           Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: SIC                             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [1  No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [x] Credit       [] Guarantee     [] Other [Specify]
For Credit:
Amount (SDRm): 73.5
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency      []  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10         []  Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed          []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment charge: 0.5%
Financing plan (US$m equivalent):
Source                                                   Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  14.2                               14.2
IDA                                                        76.2                23.8           100.0
IBRD                                                       13.5                2.0             15.5
Total        103.9               25.8            129.7
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor: n.a.
Responsible agency(ies): Bappenas
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$M):               2000       2001       2002    2003  1/
Annual                36.5       36.5      21.5     5.5
Cumulative                36.5       73.0     94.5    100
1/ for final disbursements after official closing date
For Guarantees:                                []   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
n.a.
Project implementation period: FY99-FY03  Expected effectiveness date: 07/08/99    Expected closing date: 6/30/02
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD        Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Through a bottom up and transparent approach, the project seeks to improve basic infrastructure in poor
urban neighborhoods and to promote sustainable income generation for its poor urban residents who are mostly
long term poor, have incomes eroded by high inflation, or lost sources of income in the economic downturn. Also,
the project seeks to strengthen the capability of local agencies to assist poor communities.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18963-IND    Date of latest CAS (progress report) discussion: March 9, 1999
The latest CAS, dated July 1997, did not foresee a crisis. The July 1998 "Indonesia in Crisis: A
Macroeconomic Update", summarizes the Bank recommendations to GOI, and was the basis for a Consultative
Group Meeting, for a $1 billion Policy Reform SAL approved July 1998, and for a project portfolio review in
August 1998 that identified Bank loan partial cancellations totaling $1 billion. The Bank supported the creation of
an NGO structure to channel funds (expected to be mostly bilateral grants) toNGOs and community projects. New
Bank loans, mostly to support the balance of payments, are under preparation. A CAS Progress Report was issued
February 16, 1999. Indonesia has again become eligible for an IDA allocation; SDR100 million were approved
March 9, 1999, for a "base case" scenario, and less, for a "low case" scenario.
The Bank took some actions to alleviate the domestic economic slump through existing projects. The
Village Infrastructure Project coverage was doubled to 3,000 villages on Java and Sumatra in 1998/9 (taking over
an intended government share) and will assist a further 2,500 villages in 1999/0, a third project year made possible
with the loan by the rupiah depreciation. The Kecamatan (subdistrict) Development Project, approved in June
1998, widens the VIP menu to include economic activities; it started assisting 500 rural kecamatans in 1998/9,
double the number at appraisal, and many in Eastern Indonesia, and is to expand to 750 kecamatans in 1999/0.
Under road projects some disbursement rates were increased and more funds directed to maintenance. Urban
projects were amended to provide for labor intensive works with 100% loan financing (implementation started in
June 1998 and ended December 1998). Some education and health projects were restructured to ease affordability
of services by the poor. New Bank initiatives include 2 basic education projects, that have been negotiated.
This project was proposed early 1998, obtained a $750,000 PHRD grant July 1998 to assist preparation;
was negotiated October 1998 for a loan, was then delayed awaiting a Bank decision on the Government request for
IDA financing, and when this was approved, supplementary negotiations were held on April 9, 1999 on a credit
agreement. The CAS objectives of poverty reduction, decentralization and participatory project identification and
implementation, continue and apply to this project.
2. Main poverty issues and Government strategy:
Even while incomes had been increasing steadily for years, a large proportion of the population remained
just above the absolute poverty line. The pre-crisis number of "absolute" poor was estimated at 7 million in urban
areas, at a 10% incidence (and 15 million in rural areas, at 12%). Unemployment was estimated to be very low,
less than 2%--though substantial underemployment was acknowledged (some 35%). Since the banking collapse in
mid-1997, most enterprises cannot obtain or afford credit for working capital. This has led to the vicious circle of
layoffs and loss of purchasing power and of demand by employees/consumers, enterprises and self employed
service providers. The 1997 foreign exchange crisis worsened the problem--except for those who could continue to
export--and fueled inflation to annualized rates exceeding 80%: reduced nominal incomes were reduced even more
in real terms. Simultaneously, early 1997 drought was widespread and in places, severe, and affected rural
livelihoods. Unrest exacerbated the situation.
Estimates of the number of people affected by the depression and their location are uncertain as the
situation changes. Mid-1998 urban poverty estimates started at 20%. Of a 91 million labor force, open urban



Page 3                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
unemployment was estimated at 15 million (16%). The potential for underemployment was estimated at 45% by
the Indonesian Federation of Workers. Especially affected were the construction and manufacturing sectors (shoes,
textiles, garments, electronics). The Indonesian Association of Textile Industries estimated 15% laid off of the 2
million in the sector, mostly women; the Association of Construction Industries estimated some 3-4 million laid off,
mostly men. The banking sector was hard hit. Many of the people who continued working were paid less. Jobs
under public sector contracts dwindled as public funding was decreased and delayed. However, by July 1998 the
drought seemed over and rural areas producing for export (rubber, palm oil, coffee, cocoa, etc.) saw greatly
increased incomes due to the gradual rupiah depreciation (from some Rp2,500 per dollar mid-1997 to about
Rpl5,000 mid-1998 and back to Rp8,000 since the third quarter). Many urban jobless returned to their town or
village of origin, thus mitigating the urban plight.
Java is the most affected island. It has about 120 million persons or 60% of Indonesia's population, 40
million living in urban areas (65% of the urban population), most of the larger cities that are more affected, and
more than 5 million "absolute" urban poor (some 70% of the total) prior to the crisis. Java's urban areas had some
8 million manufacturing jobs (73% of Indonesia's total), 2.6 million construction workers (65% of the total),
equally high shares of service jobs and more than 80% of the foreign investment--most of which was lost. Java's
rural areas produce mostly rice; the rice price increase lagged other prices and with an average 900 persons per
km2, expanding cultivated areas is difficult. Sumatra, with some 20% of the population and almost 1 million urban
poor pre-crisis, seems the second most affected island, in particular its larger cities in the provinces of Sumatra
Utara and Sumatra Selatan.
The Government "crisis" strategy included assistance to the rural areas, where the cost of living is lower,
and to encourage seasonal migrants who lost their urban job, to return to their villages--rural-urban linkages are
strong in Indonesia. In particular, the Government provided some new and continued other rural programs,
including Bank-assisted projects. Other donor agencies also amended their programs. The Government, mostly
with IMF and adjustment lending counterpart rupiah, also undertook: a) subsidy programs for necessities in all
areas--a food distribution program to provide rice, sugar and cooking oil at below-market prices; at times, food
coupons for free meals; subsidized medicines; school fee waivers for poor families; b) labor intensive programs for
small works, some of which were already in municipal plans, with Rp6 trillion budgeted for 1998/9 though not all
was spent; c) a crisis alleviation program (PDM-DKE) launched in November 1998; it provides funds to all
subdistricts in proportion to the estimated number of poor and relative level of local prices. The scheme is based on
the KDP model and its funds can be disbursed until June 30, 1999. The Government allocation for "social
programs" was large--totaling some Rpl8 trillion ($2.2 billion equivalent) for the fiscal year ending March 1999.
Local govermments also implement their own programs; some of them promote food production on idle urban land.
A district level Coordination Committee for social programs was started late 1998 with participation of all local
agencies, in order to improve effectiveness of the programs.
For 1999/0 the Government objective is to increase "recovery" programs, reduce unsustainable "welfare"
programs and improve those retained. The total needed for social support should not exceed RplO trillion even
allowing for imperfect targeting and overheads; some of this is already funded. Unnecessary area overlaps of
programs would be avoided. The PDM-DKE implementation would be improved, partly by preparing staff better.
Ad-hoc labor intensive schemes are no longer planned; they were not very efficient nor effective, and anyway
contractors are switching to higher labor intensity because of the new relative prices (many have exported their
equipment). But public sector job generation remains jeopardized: the Government's December 1998 draft budget
was only some 50% in real terms of the 1998/9 budget, with even greater decreases in the routine and the
"projects" budgets that are the more labor intensive (a small counterpart funding for projects has multiplier effects
as it can trigger release of a 4-5-fold foreign funded portion; this multiplier effect, and related jobs, was mostly lost
in 1998/9). "Programs" kept its allocation (in nominal terms), seem to crowd out projects and probably absorb the
foreign adjustment loans. Foreign funding assumed in the draft budget was almost 30% (Rp77 trillion, or some $10
billion--1999/0 budget in Rp trillion: 218 total, 134 routine, 83 development, of which 30 "projects" and 53
"program", and this including 21.7 for "bank restructuring"). Actual 1998/9 expenditures were much lower than



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD          Page 4
the budget. The new budget was still under discussion in February. Parliamentary elections are scheduled for June
1999 and subsequent budget changes can be expected.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
As poverty reduction is not a "sector", issues in social sectors such as education, health, trade, and public
transport are not addressed by this project. Indonesia's vast archipelago with some 60 million persons in urban
areas and some 12 million urban poor and newly impoverished, make it difficult to address "all" urban poverty.
The project design (details in Annex 2) makes the following strategic choices:
Geographical coverage: The proposed project will assist the neediest urban areas on Java. In 1999/0 the
PDM-DKE is to assist other urban areas (and rural subdistricts not covered by the KDP, VIP and a OECF "VIP").
Thus the 4 projects are complementary even if only the PDM-DKE is crisis related, and thus is simpler (with less
facilitation), provides less funding "per capita" and admits to lower sustainability expectations. The BPS
definitions of "urban" and "rural" are used in the 4 projects. Funds will thus be available in all urban areas not to
distort location choices of the unemployed and needy. Other complementary programs, such as food and
scholarship programs, will continue. The UPP more complex logistics and facilitator deployment for establishing a
more sustainable program for the "structural poor", require starting in a limited area; its grass roots approach would
be gradually expanded to other areas and phase out "crisis" programs. Thus, the project will begin in dense urban
corridors, in 59 districts in the northern half of Java and in Yogyakarta, Bandung and Malang. They comprise
some 30 million urban residents in a small area. Within this area, facilitators will start in the 1305 larger
kelurahans (of more than 7500 persons) totaling 23 million, to reach the most poor (Phase 1). A Phase 2 would
start some 3 months later under the project, expanding on Java, into the 1540 smallerkelurahans with 7 million, in
the same northern districts, and/or into the "southern" districts including 1360 urban areas, mostly small, totaling 8
million persons (page 25). If the approach is successful, another project/funding source would then be found to
spread it. To help target locations local governments ranked kelurahans, and within the selected kelurahans, they
will rank neighborhoods, according to poverty level. Data collected by the family planning groups (BKKBN) can
help identify poor households (SUSENAS, the household expenditure survey, data allow to pinpoint the poorer
districts, but not poorer subdistricts or smaller areas. There is not a good, up to date standard database at national
level, to identify poor urban neighborhoods, but this should not be necessary with decentralization).
Target group: Oversight consultants will verify the poverty levels in neighborhoods before facilitators start
distributing in them a circular with information on the program. Eligibility of households submitting proposals for
funding will also be verified by facilitators to reduce the potential for capture byelites. Incomes of a family of 4
should be less than about Rp250,000 per month, and whether the household head/spouse is working, the house is
rented, and the quality of the house, will also be considered; however, one third of the group members may be
better off, to facilitate self-help within the community. It is likely that the long term poor or near poor will
participate the most in the program with this selection process. The relatively better off among the poor may
qualify more easily to access funds that have to revolve. Still, their activities usually involve hiring unskilled
workers. Factory workers laid-off would be mostly interested in getting their jobs back, and may participate more
in temporary public works. The project aims at reaching the poorest 25% of the populations in the selected areas. .
Other social programs are expected to continue prior to and in parallel to this project to reach other groups.
Funding allocations: The funds will be a one time grant to kelurahans. The grants vary with population:
Rpl,250 million (more than 30,000 persons), Rp750 million (between 30,000 and 22,500 residents), Rp500 million
(22,500 to 15,000), Rp250 million (15,000 to 7,500) and RplOO million (less than 7,500). Thus a similar average
per capita is provided, starting at some Rp22,000 in the smaller kelurahans and reaching about Rp29,000 in the
larger ones, taking into account that prices are higher in the larger kelurahans. Poverty incidences are assumed to
be similar. An RW can draw up to Rp 100 million. The kelurahan grant is not an entitlement; balances uncommitted
6 months after the project start in a kelurahan, will be transferred elsewhere.
Uses of grants: Funds can be used over up to 18 months, for subloans, microcredits and infrastructure
grants, by demand by community groups. a) The menu is open except for a negative list (arms, harmful drugs,
depositing project funds in banks to earn interest, land acquisition, religious buildings, government administration,



Page 5                          Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
and environmentally harmful products). During the training of facilitators, and when these speak with the
communities, some activities will be encouraged, such as urban agriculture, group training in the kampung,
apprenticeships or skills training, programs for children/youth, family planning education, community based
housing. New street shops will be discouraged. The ceiling for subloans is Rp3O million, for any proposal by
groups for economic activities; loans have to be repaid within a year, with a commercial interest rate. Groups
should have at least 3 members (different households)--a minimum group size that is small, reduces transaction
costs. b) Maxima increasing with kelurahan size are allowed for a revolving fund for microcredits, for individuals
and groups. c) Small public infrastructures in the neighborhoods will pay labor for output, at rates equivalent to
minimum wages.
Timing: By financing demand-driven subprojects, the need for time consuming project preparation by a
government agency is reduced; a large coverage is possible while maintaining a small and flexible scope at each
location; subprojects would suit local needs better. However, initial preparation for this type of project takes some
time for organization, logistics and set up (schedule in Annex 11). Disbursements for subprojects would start in
July 1999.
Credit size: The credit size is determined by IDA availability, SDR73.5 million. $15.5 m have been
reallocated to the UPP from uncommitted funds under the Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP, Loan No.
3726-IND) in order to start the UPP before credit proceeds are available. Even so, Bank funding is insufficient for
all kelurahans. In a year, whether further funding is justified will be clearer.
Complementary programs: No amount of assistance targeted to the poor will revive the economy nor
prevent some people requiring welfare. A multiprong approach can protect employment and not only help the
unemployed in urban areas:
a) assistance to Small and Medium Size Enterprises. SMEs are normally the largest employers but they became
financially strapped and laid off workers. Many have closed, unable to adjust to inflation at 80% annualized
rates, commercial interest rates at 40% (even 70% in 1998), and to buy inputs (normally in cash). The
Government provides subsidized credit for SMEs; the program efficiency could be improved. However,
financing is not the only constraint-demand is low; the 300% rupiah devaluation provides short term import
substitution and export opportunities.
b) protection of public work expenditures. Public work contractors are mostly idle--economically justified public
works are normally required to help end depressions. Public works budgets could be increased and be released
on time to provide more continuous employment.
c) Training programs could enhance skills of the unemployed and increase productivity when economic activity
picks up.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component               Category         Indicative   % of Total    IDA   Ln. 3726-  % IDA/
Costs US$M            financing    IND      IBRD
US$M1/    US$M    financing
Grants for subprojects    Physical investments!
Revolving credits!      ) 109.4        84%        98.5                  90%
Group assistants
TA for implementation    Project management       1.0        12%                  1.0        100%
Oversight consultants        4.5                             4.5       100%
Kelurahan facilitators      10.0                             10.0       100%
TA for monitoring    Consultants                  1.5         1%        1.5                  100%
GOI administration   Project management           3.3         3%
Total            129.7       100%       100.0      15.5
1-The Credit is SDR73.5 m; dollar equivalents are shown.



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD        Page 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
After an initial period of centralized organization, needed for a widespread start, the community decides on
spending priorities in a Kelurahan Forum (KF), larger than the current LKMD. Groups with approved subprojects
select their own facilitators or technical experts and may pay them from theirkelurahan grant funding or by sharing
expected profits. The project thus proposes to mobilize informal and private sector local institutions and expertise
to assist. Payments will be according to certified output, from a commercial bank account. Interest accrued on
revolving funds should be allocated for maintenance of local infrastructure, forkelurahan administration, including
annual audits to be initiated by the KF, and for other local priorities. The activities should result in sustainable
kelurahan investments, a Kelurahan Fund, and empowerment for broader participation in decision making about
community matters. Women and men should have equal opportunity. The project thus also supports the shift to
elected lurahs during 1999, required by the new law on local government, and the working of the new Coordination
Committee for Social Programs at district level, that has to appointsubdistrict project managers. The project may
encourage civic groups to engage in the Committee meetings or to form an Urban Community Forum, at district or
subdistrict level.
Government offices will be involved for public administration and community support, rather than in their
traditional top-down role. Local agency staff will be trained and invited to assist communities alongside private
sector facilitators. It is hoped that as with the VIP in rural areas, this participatory system will meet small local
needs better, mobilize local private resources and manpower, lower unit costs, and accelerate implementation, more
than a more hierarchical approach better suited to large investments. However, it is acknowledged that the
community-based approach has risks, due to less social cohesion in urban areas and the potential for the more
educated to capture the funds, though transparency may be better in denser areas. Progress will be monitored
closely. If successful, future similar programs may be managed at district level.
The project does not include policy studies, because many are already included under other programs.
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall coordination, management, budgeting and monitoring responsibilities are with a Secretariat in
Bappenas (an expanded VIP/KDP/UPP Secretariat), under the Regional Development Deputy. An interministerial
coordination committee, chaired by Bappenas, is to resolve coordination problems. This set-up parallels that for
VIP, that has worked well.
District agencies will select an administrative project manager (PjOK) for appointment by theBupati or
Walikota for at least 24 months. The PjOK will be located at subdistrict level (kecamatan) to verify procedures and
endorse payments from the grant. For infrastructure proposals, the Public Works Department of the Kabupaten
(DPUK) would be consulted to ensure correct standards and fit with municipal plans. The same agencies have
prioritized kelurahans and RWs, the poverty level to be verified by the oversight consultant and the lurahs.
Selected agency staff will be trained along the consultant facilitators.
Disbursements for grants and subloans to groups will be made by the local BRI Unit, with presentation of
the Implementation Agreement (Annexl2) or claims, signed by the representatives of the group and thePjOK,
attaching the approved proposal signed by the consultant, the Kelurahan Forum leader and the lurah. Bank
Indonesia shall have a Special Account (SA); the regional treasury offices (KPKNs) will authorize transfers from
the SA and GOI funds to designated kelurahan accounts, to be released in 3 tranches of the kelurahan grant: 40%
(with the first 5 implementation agreements), 40% and 20% (see Annex 6).
Monitoring will be carried out beyond that by the Secretariat and the Bank. The project provides for
monitoring under provincial or district level contracts, to make each task more manageable, in terms of progress,
transparency, profiles of laborers and beneficiaries, beneficiary satisfaction, etc. Local governments and journalists
are invited to visit the sites and publish their findings. Complaints and suggestions can be logged at akelurahan
box, and at the Secretariat's P.O. Box 2222, Jakarta (P.O. Box 5000 is widely used for another poverty project) and
e-mail, p2kp01@indosat.net.id. The Annex 2 will be widely distributed (in Indonesian) and posted on the Web



Page 7                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
with progress reports (in Indonesian and English).
Audits will be conducted annually by the various government level audit agencies. They are expected to
coordinate their sampling to avoid a kelurahan or RW being audited more than once in a year. KFs are expected to
select private sector auditors located outside the kelurahan to have their accounts audited every year.
Several levels of technical assistance for implementation are anticipated:
a) national project management. A Bappenas Secretariat will be strengthened by a small consultant team to assist
with project management, organization, monitoring, reporting, procurement, and training of oversight
consultants, kelurahan facilitators and selected local agency staff.
b) district/provincial oversight consultants. Nine firms (associations of firms) were selected and contracted for 2
years, 2 firms for each of Jakarta, West, Center and East Java, and one for Yogyakarta, to establish consultant
teams and subteams in various municipalities, to provide reasonable access from most urban areas. The
oversight consultants are to approve, and help design if necessary, the proposals made by groups, and supervise
progress to certify payment requests. Later on, the districts would procure oversight consultants as needed.
c) facilitators. i) Kelurahan facilitators: The oversight consultant firms also provide kelurahan facilitators for 24
months, at least one per kelurahan exceeding 7,500 residents, to help disseminate the program details, assist
with subproject preparation and supervise implementation. Facilitators can come from localNGOs, universities
or firms, subcontracted by or in association with the OC firm. ii) Group technical assistants: Groups can agree
with local consultants on help to prepare or implement subprojects, and on payment, as may be needed. iii)
Community trainee facilitators: will be selected from local volunteers and be paid by the oversight consultant
for 6 months after which they may be retained by the KF.
d) monitoring consultants will also be provided; some may be contracted at district level.
4. Benefits and target population:
The target population are the poor and newly impoverished people in urban areas on Java. The bottom 30%
comprises some 12 million persons, some 3 million households. As the number of poor has increased more than
proportionally on Java, this may comprise more than 75% of the target group in Indonesia overall. No city
targeting is proposed because populations are mobile: assisting only large cities, where most jobs were lost, could
encourage people to remain even if they have alternatives elsewhere. However, within urban areas it is foreseen to
assist only the poorest neighborhoods, normally in the fringes and in old cores. There the project would rely on
self-targeting mechanisms and community group review and selection (e.g. by setting wages at the local minimum
for public works, and payment per output not per input; and restricting credit eligibility only to households with
incomes of less than about Rp250,000 per month (for 4 members). Hopefully many of the poor households could
benefit from the project already the first year--communities having learned the process and having had more time
to generate ideas, the number of participants could increase the second year. By revolving the funds, the number of
beneficiaries can continue to increase. The project coverage would be reduced should the rupiah strengthen.
Project benefits (see also Section E) would be:
a) creation of temporary jobs and small public works; local improvements tend to have high economic returns;
b) benefits from  economic activities, such as agricultural production on idle urban land, mainly for local
consumption; creation of hopefully, lasting small businesses, of skills through training and apprenticeships.
Economic activities by the poor have normally good returns, though the market conditions are difficult.
Increased agroprocessing businesses could also promote urban-rural linkages;
c) establishment of revolving funds, including microcredit funds, to benefit more participants in the future; such
funds have shown high repayment rates. All repayments will belong to the kelurahan, that will thus have an
interest in enforcing repayment and in selecting subprojects with public benefits;
d) promotion of long term decentralization and community empowerment objectives, that could have multiplier
effects. Funds should be available in a kelurahan account for further use with the project principles including



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD         Page 8
for maintenance of local infrastructures, local administration and other priorities currentlyunfunded. Local
agencies will be more involved. The project, if successful, would have a demonstration effect.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project relies on the poor communities to select and implement subprojects, to maximize the likelihood
of funds getting directly to the needy and to the more useful subprojects, of achieving low unit costs, and of fast
implementation. Facilitators will assist in targeting and in the project process.
The alternative approaches considered for this project and rejected are
a) a standard investment project. This process through public agencies is slow and hardly reaches the individuals
in the communities who need direct assistance. Furthermore, agencies' staff has full agendas and could not
undertake such an extra effort without consultants. Overheads also tend to be higher than with a community
participation system.
b) a public works program. There are labor intensive public work programs, that have not proved very efficient or
effective. Groups reached are not the poorest, quality is generally poor, only a small proportion of the cost
goes for labor, and leakages are a concern. Food for work is rather inefficient, and was not considered.
c) a "negative tax", that is, distributing cash or vouchers for food purchases to the most needy. This could be an
attractive option, but the Bank normally does not finance "consumption". A food stamp program, programs for
low priced necessities and waived school fees for poor families already reduce the daily need for cash.
Alternative geographical coverages were also considered. Only large cities for instance, would be
inappropriate because labor and even more the newly unemployed are mobile and likely to move to where the cost
of living and prospects for work are best. Thus public programs should be available in any area as much as where
most jobs were lost. All of Indonesia in one project was considered too ambitious; Java was selected due to its
concentration of poor. Even so logistics are considerable; a staged start was preferable--and mandated by financial
constraints.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
This project fits with a number of activities under ongoing urban projects such as KIP (urban neighborhood
improvement programs). The VIPs have been successful in rural areas of Java, and include the community
approach. Many potential activities involving communities have been identified and could be pursued under the
proposed project with minimum delay (from the Municipal Innovations Project (approved in February 1999), the
proposed West Java and Jakarta Environmental Project, the NGO network to channel social funds, and USAID's
ongoing CLEAN). The environmental and resettlement guidelines for the project are the same as for the Municipal
Innovations Project; this facilitates administration and general understanding.
Latest Status Report Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Project                        _
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Community planning and implementation            VIPs                 HS/S            HS/S
KIP                                             UDPs                  HS/S
New approaches in cities                Municipal Innovations LIL    To start
Other development agencies
ADB, AusAid, GTZ, IFAD, SwissAid,
USAID: decentralization, etc.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 9                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty ProjectTPAD
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposedproject design:
The various social funds and similar projects undertaken in the Bank were reviewed already for the KDP,
and their findings taken into account. But more particularly, the vastness and social characteristics of Indonesia
have been taken into account in designing the project--spatial and social structures, customs such asgotong royong
(community work), informal safety nets; available skills; incentives. The government structure also has been taken
into account: its hierarchy and staff availability facilitate dissemination of information, so that a "model" can easily
and quickly be replicated across many cities, as was needed to govern such an extended territory. This allows a
relatively large project to be implemented through small parallel, independent and varied subprojects--by
establishing standard criteria, allowing demand driven solutions at each location, proceeding through relatively
small assistance "units". For this to work, the basic organization needs to be relatively centralized, as does the
monitoring--as was already adopted for the VIPs.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government requested assistance for the urban poor. Bappenas coordinates with other Ministries;
MoHA will provide facilitators and PjOKs on a timely manner and for the duration of the project implementation
in the respective kecamatans. MoF will provide the amount required for an early start before credit effectiveness.
BRI will provide the payment service at its many outlets and cover its costs with the interest it may earn on
temporary balances. The project's community based approach is being followed by some other programs, to lessen
multiplicity of procedures and eventual inconsistencies; in particular, it is coordinated with the PDM-DKE
program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The main value added of the Bank is a) experience with similar approaches in rural areas, and thus prompt
assistance with the project definition and in organizing the preparation activities, b) executing the PHRD grant for
faster project preparation, c) low cost IDA funding (that however entailed a delay), and later d) in independent
supervision and monitoring. If successful, the approach can be replicated and further Bank financing, provided.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic [supported by Annex 4: n.a.]
[ ]    Cost benefit analysis: NPV=  [x]  Cost effectiveness analysis  [x] Other
Subproject benefits: Putting workers back to work is an objective by itself, to provide purchasing power for
necessities. It is expected that most of the subprojects will be economic activities. The requirement of repayment
of credits with the commercial interest rate prevailing for one year loans (some 40% in February 1999), should
provide returns at least that high per year and an expected positive economic return in real terms. The project
returns will be higher the faster the revolving proceeds; one year maximum is allowed but shorter cycles are
common for small credits. Small business may fail, but even so repayment is expected (microcredits have some of
the better repayment performances). Training should have good returns; it should enable unemployed persons to
access jobs requiring more skills. The trainees are to repay to the kelurahan, the training and stipend cost. RWs
with non performing groups may be ineligible for assistance the following year (this would pressure groups to
repay). Urban agriculture on idle land (land is fertile on Java) should increase food or incomes. Small works or
environmental improvements, greening of public spaces, etc. normally have good economic returns and their costs
may be lower and quality better with the project's community approach than with the conventional contractor
approach. Because of the externalities involved in public infrastructure and environmental improvements, and
presumably more beneficiaries than for private economic activities, grant funding is justified. Infrastructure with
poor benefits or few beneficiaries would probably not be undertaken, since the opportunity cost to thekelurahan is
the return from economic activities and the potential for accessing revolving funds, or even the prospect of having
the proposal rejected at the Kelurahan Forum. The "market" should work in the presence of constrained funds.
Institutional benefits: The process of community empowerment, the creation of a revolving fund and a
maintenance fund from interest accruals, the acquisition of new skills, could provide the basis for some sustained
improvement in poor neighborhoods. The involvement of local agency staff in new ways to assist theirkelurahan



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD        Page 10
constituencies, and eventual delegation of procuring consultants to district level, would prepare them to continue
similar programs with their own resources, if this was desired and the approach is found useful and cost-effective.
Paying facilitators partly by output rather than only by input should improve their effectiveness. Community groups
will select their own consultants and payment method.
Targeting efficiency. Targeting has a high cost, but it is less costly than non targeted programs in tenns of
cost per poor assisted, at least at poverty rates below 50%--the "overhead" cost of non targeted programs is
inversely related to the poverty rate. Increased targeting would increase the program overheads and lower the
share of funds benefiting the poor (the rule applied is that if increasing targeting costs more than the "leakage" it
avoids, then it is not worthwhile). Targeting the poor should be reasonably effective as self-enforcing mechanisms
and incentives have been built into the program rules; however, some less poor can be asked to join groups to
provide skills or other help. Only minimum wages would be paid for public works, based on output (less than
minimum wages is not feasible as minimum wages are already low, eroded with inflation). Households of 4 with
more than about Rp250,000 income per month would not be eligible formicrocredit (close to the poverty line, that
may be adjusted for inflation year 2). The project should operate only in the poorerRWs and information would be
widespread to ensure equal opportunity.
The altemative of straight welfare payments could have a lower initial cost if targeting was very good;
compared to funding small public works, the cost of inputs other than labor, often more than 70%, would be
avoided. But so would be the multiplier effect on the people providing the inputs, and the benefits from the
infrastructure. Compared to economic activities, the "revolving" of public funds and the sense of accomplishment
of the poor, would be lost with welfare payments. The program hopes to provide assistance that is sustainable,
while admitting that for economic recovery and sheer welfare other programs are needed.
The cost of overheads--consultants, facilitators and govemment administration--is some 17% of the project
cost or 20% of the kelurahan grant cost. The overall economic return should still be good (employment of
consultants and facilitators is a benefit in itself, currently). The project cost per poor person in the urban areas is
about $10, or some $40 per poor household (the dollar cost depends on the rupiah exchange rate). If participation
rate is a third, the cost trebles per poor beneficiary. However, as funds are to revolve or infrastructure benefits are
more widespread, the fiscal cost per beneficiary will be lower. The project's overhead cost per beneficiary is
comparable to that of other programs.
Detailed economic analysis is not worthwhile ex ante, as it would be no more credible than the
assumptions made. The built-in incentives should help achieve good results. Close monitoring will be undertaken
to evaluate results in a sample of neighborhoods 6 months after the project's effective start and monitoring will
continue subsequently, to determine on a continuous basis potential improvements to the project design (or even
change of approach).
2. Financial (Annex 5): n.a. NPV=n.a.; FRR=n.a.
The project design is considered the best that could be identified in fiscal terms. A strongerrupiah would
result in a smaller credit coverage and higher unit costs in dollars, as the kelurahan grant amounts and contracts for
oversight consultants and facilitators are in rupiah. The Credit balance and commitment projections will be
monitored carefully before expanding into a subsequent project phase.
Technical and financial audits by the monitoring consultants will be important to check the adequacy of
fund use, in a more timely fashion to enable action taken where anomalies or abuses are found, than would be
feasible with only annual audits, months after the fiscal year closing. The locations would be chosen some by
sampling and some by supervision alerts. The central audit bureau (BPKP) will coordinate its sampling of
communities for audit with audit agencies at lower levels. They will review due diligence and due process, and the
attainment of performance as per agreed indicators.
3. Technical
For small works, the standard MPW guidelines will be used as relevant and the local agency will be
consulted for areawide implications. For economic activities, a screening will be undertaken at the community



Page 11                      Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
level and as there is expected to be competition for the funds, only the best proposals are expected to be funded.
Consultants will verify the technical quality and compliance with any required environmental and compensation
guidelines before approving subprojects and disbursements. A new "technical" manual is not proposed, but the
guidelines, procurement methods, reporting, etc. (annexes to this PAD) will be widely available, in a Project
Manual and on the Web, in Indonesian.
4. Institutional
An effort is needed up front to train local agency staff, oversight consultants andkelurahan facilitators with
the simplest of criteria and requirements (PAD Annexes are the basis) for a start of the program in 1305
kelurahans--with some 23 million urban residents, and presumably more than 1 million households eligible and
interested in participating. Mobilizing non-profit organizations and community groups such as religious groups, is
essential (see 7. below). Paying facilitators partly based on subprojects disbursement progress should improve
standard performance. The project will also train facilitators from the communities, to assist in the future. The
preparation has a critical path plan (Annex 11).
5. Social and resettlement
[x]    Summarize issues below   [] To be defined [] No issues
Rapid assessments were made during July 1998 by the project preparation team in 10 provinces, in poor
communities and at local agencies, to test and refine the approach and to identify the best ways to disseminate
information on the program (for instance, the idea of a TV campaign was discarded; the appropriateness of the area
coverage was confirmed). Some rapid assessments have also been conducted under ongoing urban projects,
notably in relation to labor intensive works, and the Bank undertook 2 crisis assessments in 1998 (one early on
based on the SUSENAS and later, a "trend" survey).
There is always the risk that the poorest will be the least able to access project funds. However, some
competition for funds has to be kept to encourage the best uses and sustainability, while the selection will be based
on consensus or voting in the kelurahan. The credit size cannot cover all poor and the project does not pretend to
be able to solve all problems. Thus, the poorest people would continue to need access to free meals, assistance
with school expenses, etc. as is foreseen by the Government. (targeting is discussed under "Economic", above)
No resettlement is expected. Any land acquisition would be very minor, since the grants do not finance it
and poor residents can't afford it. Still, resettlement guidelines apply (Annex 13; the same guidelines apply for the
Municipal Innovations Project that would be implemented in parallel).
6. Environmental assessment: n.a. Environmental category: [ ] A   [ x] B    [ ] C
The environmental guidelines developed for the Municipal Innovations Project apply for the proposed
project, as well. It is expected that works will be minor and if anything, they should have a positive environmental
effect. Some economic activities may have some negative impact (such as toxic effluents from textile dyes, etc.).
All negative impacts should be identified by the oversight consultants and mitigating measures proposed and
adopted, and monitored.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if participatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]
The proposed Kelurahan Forum will enable a wider participation in community decisions and will have
increased resources under local decision-making. The community groups are to identify and implement the
subprojects to be financed. Facilitators will help with targeting, and consultants (that may beNGOs, consulting
firms, government agencies, universities) will assist the subproject process. Community groups can select their
own facilitators and will handle their payment, based on output or profit sharing. Local agencies can assist more
than under traditional projects. That is, a wide spectrum of stakeholders is involved.
Several meetings have taken place early this year with representatives of the more widely represented non-
profit organizations (these are more active outside Java) and religious groups. They expressed support to the



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD         Page 12
proposed assistance, willingness to work with the communities, to mobilize their local chapters and to compete for
contracts. Municipal agencies have also expressed their support and requested project funds be made available
soonest; many have started programs on their own (such as urban agriculture for production of food, labor
intensive works). Rapid assessments have also been conducted for project preparation (see above).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed project has limited but important objectives: provide people with purchasing power in a
better way than distributing cash for consumption; improve local infrastructure and environment; fund sustainable
subprojects; develop community and local institutions. Lessons may be learnt that can be used to deal more
permanently with urban poverty reduction in Indonesia and elsewhere: for instance, in the promotion of urban
agriculture, assistance to improve housing, promotion of training, credits in the absence of a functioning banking
system, etc.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                        Risk        Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Improper targeting and capture by elites         M      Careful training and follow up
Inconsistent incentives across poverty programs  M      Interministerial committees can provide
consistency in "benefits"
Lack of market for economic outputs              M      The poor assisted to focus on
marketable products and skills
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Lack of counterpart funds                         M    MoF ensured availability of GOI funds
prior to and after credit effectiveness.
Insufficient facilitator capacity                 M     Trainers engaged to accelerate
facilitator deployment and know-how.
Improper use of funds                             S    Built-in community surveillance,
incentives, transparency, audits,
penalties for misuse, outsider reviews
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Some questions arose whether this level of assistance would
a) overwhelm NGO and local consultant capacities--the increased social programs leave limited consultant
availability; emphasis is placed on training, including government staff;
b) undermine informal safety nets--the needs are much greater than usual and the proposed assistance may not
be enough; if the assistance is not in demand by target groups, it would be redirected, as it is not an
entitlement;
c) result in leakages--the transparency features should help reduce leakages compared to other programs. A
concern is that the many welfare programs would undermine the sustainability desired under the project.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Probably the major controversy would arise if the Bank did not assist. This could result in less well
prrepared welfare programs being expanded. The risks of the project have been discussed and addressed as
possible-still, remaining risks will have to be accepted as better program alternatives could not be identified.



Page 13                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
Perfect targeting is not feasible at reasonable cost, but given the area selection, types of programs and incentives
built into project aspects, most beneficiaries should be poor if not the poorest. The lack of ex-ante detailed
economic return justifications is not uncommon in poverty programs; but returns of potential activities are normally
good.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions: Standard requirements only.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Credit Agreement]
The main covenants relate to project implementation (description in Annex 2), monitoring, transparency,
compliance with the Bank's guidelines for land acquisition and environmental criteria as may be applicable. Dated
covenants (expected after credit effectiveness) relate to:
a) Selection of PjOKs for 1500 project kelurahan by not later than September 15, 1999 (a second phase).
b) Issuance of public information on the project to second phase projectkelurahan residents, by not later than
October 15, 1999.
c) Provision of reports on the project implementation: quarterly reports by April 30, July 31 and October 31;
annual reports by January 31 each year; monitoring and evaluation reports also by January 31.
d) Review of project reports with the IDA by March 1 each project year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
A consultant team (financed with a PHRD grant) was recruited early July 1998. It has undertaken field
surveys/rapid assessments and refined the project concept. Statistics on urban areas were obtained and analyzed.
Local agencies have ranked kelurahans by 1998 poverty levels. The team had started project implementation
activities, such as the advance process procurement of oversight consultants and kelurahan facilitators (353
expressions of interest were received following advertising in 6 provincial newspapers). Requests for bids
including terms of reference, draft contract, letter of invitation with supplementary clarifications, evaluation criteria
and data on the areas to be assisted were provided to 45 firms shortlisted for 9 contracts. Bid evaluation was
completed in April. Further, 5 training teams, from the private sector and including staff from MoHA, were
selected to conduct parallel series of training sessions for facilitators, that started in April. Preparation for and the
training are also financed by the grant and mobilization of consultants are financed by the SUDP loan, both ahead
of credit effectiveness. The national level management consultancy has been advertised; shortlisted firms were
invited to bid./ is awaited before . Alternative project circulars were tested in a few neighborhoods and one was
finalized.
A draft Project Manual with the project description and procedures (PAD Annexes and explanations, in
Indonesian, including bookkeeping requirements) was available in December 1998; the final Manual was cleared
and printed in April 1999. The regulation establishing the Secretariat for the project in Bappenas has been signed.
MoF has agreed to prefmance the initial advance to kelurahans, beyond its 10% share. MoHA has selected PjOKs
for the 1305 kelurahans to be assisted first, by Mayl5, 1999. BRI has agreed to handle disbursements under the
kelurahan grants; further discussions on procedures will take place in May 1999. A dissemination brochure on the
project also has been agreed and printed.
The (revised) critical preparation path and project implementation plan are in Annex 11. The aim is credit
effectiveness and to be ready for the first disbursements for subprojects in the communities around July 1999.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project is expected to comply with all Bank policies.



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD           Page 14
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       da Johansen
[signature]                               A                  4
Sector Manager:                _Es_m
[signature]
Country Manager/Director:           Mark Baird



Page 15                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
ANNEX 1
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Reducing poverty         n.a. under project;       CAS, CEM reports          GOI, and IMF; macro and
SUSENAS, employment,                               micro; policies and
Participation by         and other data                                      objectives are consistent.
communities                                                                  Political stability.
Decentralization
Project Development                                                          (Objective to Goal)
Objective:               # of participating kelurahans MIS Project reporting  Transparent information,
starting:                                          Helpful facilitators and
Improve or restore       initially: Northern Java,  Yearly implementation    consultants,
infrastructure and income    1,305 large kelurahans  review                  Good selection of
sustainably in poor urban    later: other kelurahans on    Independent monitoring  kelurahan/groups
communities, with a bottom   Java                  Financial statements: KPKN
up approach.                                                                No delays in counterpart
Transfers to communities:   Beneficiary satisfaction  funds; in reporting
Improve local institutions.   1999: $24 m equivalent  surveys
2000: $50 m equivalent
2001: $17 m equivalent   Kelurahan books
2002: $3 m equivalent
Outputs:                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
Project MIS; monthly, by
Public infrastructures   # of subprojects; benefits    subdistrict, district &  Consistent incentives across
province                 poverty programs.
Economic activities      # of subprojects; returns  Yearly implementation
review; monitoring; audits   Market identification, timely
Employment               # of subproject beneficiaries  Supervision findings  repayment of credit.
# m-m employment         Newspaper articles
Final evaluation
Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each                            (Components to Outputs)
component)
Subprojects              $109.4m                   Secretariat/TA/Bank/BPKP   Counterpart means available
TA for implementation    $ 15.5m                   will supervise, monitor,  Facilitator capacity
TA for monitoring        $  1.5m                   audit inputs and outputs,    Proper use of project funds
GOI administration       $  3.3m                   SoEs
Total                   $129.7m



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD             Page 16
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators 1/                                                Calendar year
1999           2000 2/        2001 2/
I. INPUTS
Cumulative number of kelurahans assisted, target     1,305           2,800          2,800
Disbursements to Kelurahans, target Rp.bn            200             400            130
Oversight consultants/facilitators, persons           1,900          3,000          2,000
Government PjOKs and facilitators, persons           >700            >1,000         >1,000
II. OUTPUTS
Subprojects
Cumulative number of proposals                       8,000           17,000         20,000
Percentage of proposals, approved                    >80%            >80%           >80%
Subloan repayment per schedule:
. Principal, % of due                                >80%            >85%           >90%
. Interest, % of due                                 >80%            >85%           >90%
Percentage of works completed per schedule           >75%            >85%           >90%
Monitoring
Number of sites monitored by Secretariat             >10%            >10%           >10%
Number of sites monitored by Level II                ------- each kelurahan twice /year --------
Audits, kelurahan sample                             2.5%            2.5%           2.5%
III. IMPACTS
Independent monitoring (NGOs, universities, etc.)    ----- 10% of kelurahan surveyed/year------
Beneficiary satisfaction surveys:                    ----- 10% of kelurahan surveyed/year -----
. % of persons surveyed, aware of program            >70%            >80%           >90%
. % of persons surveyed, satisfied with program      >50%            >60%           >70%
1/ All indicators to be available by subdistrict, district and province levels; inputs, subprojects and monitoring updated on a
monthly basis, as part of a computerized MIS (see below). Disaggregation also to be available.
2/ Number of additional kelurahan and disbursements in rupiah depend on the rupiah/dollar exchange rate.
COMPUTERIZED MIS DATA
A number of other indicators are crucial to ascertain performance of the project, but targets cannot be provided at this stage
because they depend on the selections to be made by the communities. Among the indicators the MIS has to provide, are:
Subprojects                                       Funds for microcredit
Target: 30% of area population to benefit         Capital disbursed, Rp. M
Infrastructure subprojects                       Times revolved in 6 months period
. Grants, # and Rp.m                             Interest accrued/repaid
. Progress, physical and disbursements           Training/apprenticeships
. Workers, men and women: #, wage, total wages    Cumulative subloans, Rp.m
Economic activities                               Men /women, training m-m
Subloans, # and Rp.m                              Cost per m-m, Rp
New subloans with repayments, # and Rp.m          Number employed after training
Participation of women, % persons, % value        Repayment, Rp.
Transparency                                     Impacts
Number of meetings held in Project kelurahans     Only part of the information on impacts can be in the MIS,
Time required to establish Kelurahan Forum /groups
Monitoring boards, number and adequacy            Income generation; benefits, beneficiaries, sustainability, etc.
Complaints; Web site; email address; P.O. Box
Newspaper articles



Page 17                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD
ANNEX 2
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Objectives. To fund activities to benefit the poor in kelurahan on an ongoing basis via a) capital to revolve
for sustainable income generation and b) grants for basic infrastructure works and related employment. Activities
should be through community participation in selection and implementation, should be transparent and open to
scrutiny. Broadly, to empower urban communities to help them overcome poverty, and to improve capability of
local agencies to assist poor communities.
Where? The project will begin in 59 districts of Java, in the northern half and in Yogyakarta, Bandung
and Malang, where most of the dense urban areas and urban poor are (district list attached). They comprise 1305
kelurahans with more than 7500 persons each and total some 23 million people (first phase) and 1540 smaller
kelurahan, totaling some 7 million. Bappedas I and II have ranked kelurahans in the 59 districts. "Southem" Java
comprises 1,360 kelurahan, of which 1,052 are small. Coverage of a second phase will be determined about mid-
1999, and depends partly on the rupiah exchange rate that determines the loan funding reach. Camats are to
pinpoint the poorer RWs (each kelurahan averages 10 RW, each RW averages 500 families) based on income
levels and other household poverty criteria. After site verification visits, the oversight consultant will confirm with
the camat and lurah, the selection of neighborhoods. At this stage, "group" targeting takes over from "location"
targeting.
Funding allocations. Allocations are grants to kelurahans varying according to size (table overleaf). To
facilitate transparency at the local level there is a ceiling of RplO0 million per RW-however, funds are not
entitlements and may be redirected from kelurahans with low progress after 12 months. The grants will be allocated
to each kelurahan 1 time under the project.
Uses of funds. The kelurahan grant is for subloans for sustainable economic activities and for grants for
upgrading and building small public infrastructures, by demand by community groups. Subprojects have to be
proposed within 6 months of program launch in the kelurahan but funds can be used over 1 year from the date of
the initial advance.
Economic activities. The menu is open. Examples of possible activities: urban agriculture; group training in
the communities (a subloan can cover a stipend); equipment (such as sewing machines, computers); programs for
children and youth; community based housing provided it can be done within 1 year; family planning education.
Each kelurahan can also establish a microcredit fund to provide small revolving credits to individuals and groups.
Microcredits can be requested for training (apprenticeships (training on the job where the employer may pay part of
a minimum wage and a subloan pay the balance, for up to 6 months); other public or private training programs
(lists may be available at Dikmas atDepnaker). New street shops are discouraged. The following cannot be funded:
arms, harmful drugs, depositing project funds in banks to earn interest, land acquisition, religious buildings,
government administration, environmentally harmful products.
Group eligibility. Groups (KSMs) formed for economic activities should have at least 3 members (different
households); incomes of a family of 4 should be less than about Rp250,000 per month (this amount may be
adjusted with inflation by year 2; to attract higher skills, up to a third of the members may have higher incomes);
some BKKBN poverty criteria would also apply (is the household head working; is the spouse working; do they
rent the house; quality of house). Membership of the KSM would be agreed by the Kelurahan Forum (KF). Each
group/person can get funds only once (at least until there are no acceptable proposals by new groups/persons).
Women are encouraged to participate and shall have equal opportunity.
Subloans have to be repaid within a year, with interest at the commercial rate prevailing for one year loans;
the repayment schedule should reflect the cash flow of the financed activity. The repayments are to be deposited in
a Kelurahan Forum account in a local bank of the KF choice, in its name, for revolving following the same
principles. This local bank has to be willing to let designated staff attend some KF meetings. The accounts shall not



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD      Page 18
have ATM cards. Half of the interest accrued should be used to help finance maintenance of local public
infrastructure; another part should be used to help finance administration of the Kelurahan Forum.
Grants for small infrastructure. The community may choose to improve infrastructure, such as under KIP,
upgrading public spaces or parks, greening, environmental improvements. Workers building or repairing selected
public infrastructure will be paid based on output, the equivalent of local minimum wage levels, calculated based
on reasonable productivity rates. Anybody accepting a minimum wage is eligible for participating in such public
works. Some works may be contracted. Some clarifications are in attachment.
Accounting. Each group is expected to keep books for its own activity, and provide summaries to the
Kelurahan Forum Treasurer on a monthly basis. Facilitators are expected to assist with bookkeeping.
KELURAHAN
Very small   Small        Medium        Large        Very large
1995 Population, persons  <7,500        7,500-15,000  15,001-22,500 22,501-30,000 >30,000
Grant size                RplOOm        Rp250m       Rp500m       Rp750m        Rpl,250m
(average per capita)      (Rp22,000)   (Rp24,000)   (Rp27,000)   (Rp28,000)   (Rp29,000)
Microcredit Fund          <Rp7m         <RplOm       <Rp2Om        <Rp3Om       <Rp5Om
For groups and individuals
Facilitators hired by Consultant (OC):
Kelurahan Facilitators    0.5-1         1            1-2           2            3-4
Community Facilitator 1/5,000 pers.   1  2-3         3-4           4-5          6-8
Remuneration:
*  Kelurahan Facilitator: hired by consultant for 24 months, paid Rp500,000 per month plus 2% of the value of
subprojects approved in parallel to disbursements from BRI. (OC are at district/subdistrict)
*  Community Trainee Facilitator: volunteers screened and paid up to 6 months RplOO,000/ month by the OC.
* Group Technical Assistant: asked by community groups to assist with preparation and implementation of
subprojects and paid under the subproject funding (kelurahan funds) or by profit sharing.
Maximum allocation per RW: Rp 100 m;
Subproject cost/group: Minimum Rp 5 m; maximum Rp 30 m
Selection of proposals.
Proposals. People wishing to participate are expected to contribute some funds or labor to the activities
they propose; while there is no minimum requirement, contributions should enhance the likelihood of their proposal
being selected/approved in the KF. Each group prepares a subproject proposal on a standard format provided by
the Kelurahan Facilitator, signed by the group members. The proposals will include a description of the activities
proposed, costs, the amount of self financing, subloan or grant amount, funding and repayment dates, beneficiaries,
O&M plans, compliance with any applicable guidelines on asset/land acquisition or environmental impacts, etc.
(some clarifications in attachment). Implementation periods shall not exceed a year from the time of initial funding.
Proposal evaluation. A proposal has first to be approved by the oversight consultant, who reviews its
feasibility and compliance with guidelines, before it can be submitted to the KF. The program does not set a
scoring or evaluation system to prioritize proposals; the evaluation system is left at the discretion of the KF, to
facilitate it maximizing benefits from the funds and the local opportunities identified. The KF will meet to review
proposals first when it has 5 proposals, and at least monthly thereafter. The selection of proposals shall be made in
a meeting publicized in advance and open to the public; the KF shall rank the proposals, members have one vote
each, voting should be visible. The KF will endeavor to approve only good proposals, up to exhausting the
allocation. The KF has 6 months from the project start in the kelurahan (first dissemination of information by the
Kelurahan Facilitator) to present proposals to the PjOK for use of the allocation. Proposals can consolidate various



Page 19                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
subprojects of lower costs (e.g. several small business loans). The Dinas PUK has to be consulted about areawide
implications of infrastructure proposals.
Implementation agreements. For economic activities, the OC and KF leader sign proposals they have
approved, and the lurah countersigns. The signed proposal is attached to an Implementation Agreement, that is
signed by the group representative (and all group members overleaf) and the PjOK. The PjOK is appointed by the
Bupati or Walikota for 24 months and is to be based at the kecamatan office; he would be from level II except in
Jakarta where the PjOK would come from the kecamatan. For infrastructure subprojects, the same applies except
that the lurah signs the Implementation Agreement with the PjOK. A copy is provided to each signatory.
Disbursements for subprojects. Establishment of the KF is a precondition to any disbursement. Initially
the OC, the Kelurahan Facilitator, the lurah, the KF representative if different from thelurah, and the PjOK provide
signature specimens at the designated BRI office. The initial subproject funding can be withdrawn by the
community group by presenting the signed Implementation Agreement; BRI verifies the signatures and the amount;
the group representative has to sign for the withdrawal. The second disbursement can be withdrawn with approval
from the Kelurahan Facilitator after verifying appropriate use of earlier funds. The final disbursement shall be
authorized by the OC after verification of results. The PjOK endorses the payment requests.
Procurement. Procurement will follow best commercial practice. The oversight consultants appoint
Kelurahan Facilitators, individuals or firms, under their own contract or under service subcontracts, based on 3
offers. Gender balance will be sought. For Group Technical Assistants the groups and KF can appoint individuals,
as needed; the OC may provide long lists to assist with identification of candidates. Goods shall be procured after
quotations are obtained from at least 3 suppliers on the basis of a detailed description and quantity of goods, as well
as the desired delivery time and place. Works that can be implemented efficiently with labor intensive methods can
be undertaken by community participation. Other works can be contracted under lump sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 3 domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, required completion date,
a basic form of agreement and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully. (procurement forms in Annex)
Kelurahan administration. Kelurahan Forum (KYF). A KF comprised of RW or RT representatives (a
man and a woman) would be established for approval of subprojects. Elected LKMD officials can participate in a
private capacity. LKMDs to be established during 1999-2000 according to the new local govemment law may be
the KF or part of it. A KF leader/chairperson shall be elected; it may be a lurah but in a private capacity. The final
KF formation will be legalized through an SK from the Bupati or Walikota. The KF can meet at the LKMD office
or another venue. A Financial Unit (UPK) will be established to record disbursements from the kelurahan grant,
and to manage the kelurahan revolving fund. The UPK will have a charter as a profit center; will be notarized and
will be audited yearly by accountants from outside the kelurahan. The OC will check this is done. This fund shall
receive repayments from subloans and their interest; the funds shall be onlent to new activities selected on the same
basis. The Treasurer of the UPK should be a woman of a functioning local organization (the term may be one year,
renewable; she should have at least a D3). She will follow a standardized bookkeeping system. A person may be
designated debt collector. Another person(s) shall be trained by the Kelurahan Facilitator as community facilitator.
Fees. Work on behalf of the KF is voluntary; however, certain work requiring significant time may be compensated
(head, treasurer, debt collector, facilitator, audits) provided it is carried out correctly (e.g. the books are in order,
debt collection is complete, facilitators are active in the role). Administration may be rewarded with up to 2% of
the kelurahan grant amount; the percentage will be included as overhead in the Implementation Agreements and be
paid by the groups when they withdraw funds from BRI. Subsequently, administration can be financed from the
revolving fund interest, as to be agreed within the KF. About half the interest accrued should be used for
maintenance of local infrastructure.
Facilitators. Local organizations will be engaged a few days by the oversight consultant (see below) at the



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD         Page 20
program start to distribute circulars in selected neighborhoods; the circulars invite to a meeting to provide
information about the program at the kelurahan. Then the communities will be assisted by
Kelurahan Facilitators (hired by the consultant for 24 months to provide initial information about the
program and later, to assist with proposal preparation and to monitor implementation). Kelurahan Facilitators
would come from nearby, and live in the districts or subdistricts they are to assist; they would thus incur low
transportation costs and maximize their time in the field, and would not get a housing allowance. The facilitators
will have a "social" background and training in facilitation; they may come from NGOs, Universities, local
yayasans, women's groups, the Government's ongoing training programs. There would be initially one Kelurahan
Facilitator per kelurahan, 2 in the larger ones. They would be encouraged not to cover more than 12 groups, that is
considered the maximum effective control span. All the facilitators will be trained in the program before they
mobilize. Their pay rates are in the table above.
Group Technical Assistants for preparation and implementation of subprojects, can be asked by community
groups to help. Assistants are expected to have expertise other than "social". Their fee would be agreed by the
group and included in the proposal. The fee could be paid from the subproject funding as a percentage of the
subproject cost but groups will be encouraged to reward assistants in the form of sharing of profits. Assistants who
worked on proposals that are not approved, may not be paid, or be paid a minimum fee to encourage participation.
Community Trainee Facilitators, one for every 5,000 persons in the kelurahan, are to be recruited and
trained by Kelurahan Facilitators and paid by the oversight consultant for 6 months; if retained, they may be paid
by the KF from accrued interest on loans.
Oversight consultants. Consultants and an initial minimum number of facilitators are hired under 9
contracts for phase 1, kelurahans larger than 7,500 in northern Java (2 contracts for each of West, Central and East
Java and Jakarta and one for Yogyakarta, with an average of almost 150 kelurahans per contract) for 2 years, to
establish overview consultant teams and subteams to facilitate access to poor communities. The local subteam
address would be stamped on the circulars to be distributed door to door. The process: calls for expressions of
interest, shortlisting, encouraging firms to forn associations, selection on competitive basis of quality and price,
training in the principles of the program including technical, environmental, any resettlement and procurement
aspects, to conform with the program guidelines. The teams would include engineers, economists, small business
advisors, to be able to handle the various aspects that may be involved in proposals; and a core number of
facilitators, with social background. Additional expert services would be provided on a retainer basis (paid by
output). Procurement and training is done from the Project Secretariat in Jakarta. For an eventual third year or
continuation, the districts may procure the consultants.
The designated oversight consultant may have to return proposals to the facilitator/assistant requesting
further work prior to releasing proposals for review by the KF. Upon KF approval, the OC, KF leader and lurah
countersign the proposals and the Implementation Agreements are prepared for signing by thePjOK and the group
members. The consultants are also responsible for random prior review of procurement of at least 5% of the
Implementation Agreements, and for the project management information system and reporting in his area. The OC
are subject to audit and shall keep records of their activities.
Transparency. Transparency is essential. Free information flow is to raise awareness of rights and
responsibilities of stakeholders, to minimize collusion or malpractice by localelites or borrowers. At the project
start, a one page circular may be posted in public places in preselected poor neighborhoods, such as markets,
public thoroughfares, schools, worship places, through religious organizations, localNGOs and agency staff. The
circular will be distributed door to door by facilitators in the poorest neighborhoods. The circular encourages
women to participate. Women and men shall have equal opportunity. Project procedures are emphasized in
facilitator training. A Project Manual (this description including program start dates by location, plus standard
forms, bookkeeping system and environmental and land acquisition/resettlement guidelines) will be available at the
kelurahan and camat offices and posted on a Web site.
Discussions of proposals would be in the LKMD meeting room or other suitable venues. Groups can
"defend" their proposals; all residents are free to participate in discussions at the proceedings; but only the



Page 21                      Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
representatives of the RW/RTs will decide, and vote with open tallying if needed. Approved proposals have to be
advertised in the respective RT, and posted on public information boards one of which shall be located outside the
lurah's office, as would the names of the group leader and members; and monthly, the groups' progress, payments
and repayments in the case of the economic activities.
A Coordination Committee for Social Programs is being established at district level.Kelurahan Facilitators
may invite concerned citizens and groups to participate in meetings of this Committee, or to form an Urban
Community Forum at district or subdistrict level, to get involved in shaping and assisting community development.
Complaints. KFs with the OCs and facilitators are to establisha kelurahan complaint and suggestions box.
If an irregularity is observed in the kelurahan and it is not addressed satisfactorily there, complaints and questions
about the project can be directed to the facilitator or to the oversight consultant. OCs are required to suggest a
dispute settlement procedure, and to play an active role in arbitration if required. Complaints can also be sent to the
P.O.Box.2222, Jakarta, and the p2kpOOl@indosat.net.id email address of the Project Secretariat; these addresses
will be publicized. Complaints will be recorded and reported by the OC, made available for public consultation,
and followed up within a month. Anonymous complaints are acceptable, but may be given lower priority than
signed ones. The independent monitoring consultant is to act as "Ombudsman".
Awards and sanctions. The communities are encouraged to select and recognize the best performing
group in a public ceremony. It is expected that the communities will raise to the challenge of empowerment this
project provides, and that they will self-monitor and take the lead in enforcing proper conduct. However,
prospective borrowers from an RW with a non-compliant group (e.g. group repayments not on schedule) should not
be eligible to borrow from the revolving fund. Facilitators will not be paid unless their performance is satisfactory
for the group and "certified" by the oversight team. The oversight team should have no incentives for misconduct.
To encourage continuous improvement in performance, a system of performance indicators will be established by
the Project Secretariat, to increase ownership and feedback and guide behaviors.
Independent monitoring. The Secretariat or the districts, will hire after competitive bidding, independent,
local firms to survey and review progress, transparency, profiles of laborers and beneficiaries, etc. Monitoring
firms will also undertake a survey of initial conditions and surveys of project satisfaction among the communities.
The local governments should participate in reviewing progress, as can journalists. Self monitoring by communities
will be encouraged. Monitoring findings, and regular progress report findings, will be published in local
newspapers and discussed in Forum meetings.
Audits. Financial and technical (performance) audits will be performed as for all government programs,
by BPKP on an anmual and sampling basis, of groups, KFs and consultants, the project BRI offices. The various
audit levels will coordinate their sampling. Emphasis will be on due process and due diligence, and on performance
indicators as agreed. BPKP audit reports should be complete by December 30 for expenditures incurred the
previous fiscal year. The KF, OC and groups, and branches have to keep records of the activities for 3 years, and
make them available to independent reviewers if so requested.
Accounts of the UPK shall be audited yearly before June 30, by a licensed accountant from another
kelurahan, paid by the KF.
Attachments:  List of districts in year 1, and their implementation staging
Circular; Clarification for subproject eligibility
Group composition checklist
Standard forms (Implementation agreements, procurement forms, proposal forns)



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD       Page 22
General information not relevant to process in the communities
Executing Agency. Overall coordination, management, budgeting and monitoring responsibilities will be
with a Secretariat/PMU in Bappenas, under the Regional Development Deputy. The Secretariat will include staff
from concerned agencies. A Coordination Committee, chaired by Bappenas, would resolve coordination problems.
The Secretariat will have management assistance by a consulting firm, to train, review and supervise the oversight
firms and establish and keep up to date a computerized information system. The Secretariat will also disseminate
information to local agencies and train agency facilitators.
Level II agencies will select a PjOK, to be located at the kecamatan level. Selected government facilitators
will get the same training as the consultant facilitators.
Funding process. The channeling BRI office will be informed of the amount of the kelurahan grant; when
constituted, the KF will open a Kelurahan Forum Account and relevant signature specimens are recorded in the
BRI office. This shall receive funding after the PjOK endorses the documentation from the groups and forwards it
to the KPKN, that in turn requests BI to transfer the required amount to the BRI office Kelurahan account. The
initial transfer is expected to be 40% of the kelurahan grant; a second transfer of 40% would follow when the
account balance is 10%, the OC and KF are satisfied with the use of earlier funds and with the justification of
further funding, and the PjOK endorses it. The final 20% will follow in the same way. The BRI office can disburse
to the group against approved subproject documentation (agreement or claim amounts) after verification of
signatures. It will have a record of credits and debits, and verify that the latter do not exceed the former; it will also
verify that it does not disburse more than was approved for each subproject (debits should be identified by date and
withdraweT). Records shall be made available to monitorers and auditors upon request. BRI may invest partially
any balance and keep interest it may accrue, to compensate for operating costs incurred, but at any time shall have
sufficient liquidity to pay claims within the balance amount. Periodically BRI would provide disbursement
statements by kecamatan and kabupaten (may be province and kelurahan) and send a statement to the Project
Secretariat and DG Budget, Ministry of Finance.
Each Kelurahan Forum account will be funded as follows: the initial 40% transfer, to comprise 10% of the
kelurahan grant amount funded by GOI, and 30% from the Special Account in Bank Indonesia, from the World
Bank credit; subsequent transfers, 100% from the SA. This results in 90% financing from the credit. In turn, the
DG Budget asks for replenishment of the Special Account from the World Bank.
Payments to the oversight consultants and the national management consultant will be by Jakarta's
BIIKPKN, upon authorization of the Project Secretariat.
PjOK shall have a budget provided by the national budget for this program.



Page 23                             Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
CASH FLOW SCHEME AT KELURAHAN
Grant
Agreement
Completion|
First Fund                     Request
Request                       Request
C      opete                   Null
Transfer of                   l               |              Request
Funds to BR,             incomplete
+         comp~c lete      Epense  \<none
ep~~~~~~~nn
| equesfo| 
|Withdraa                                      positive _/    alance      \
op *  |                            |         balance        A KPKN
|   unacceptable  /
FCorrectR e                                                                           iBRI Balance
Report
4acceptable
Withdrawal                                                      Expense
from BRI                                                         Report
Tnmissing     ,>4 million                        /     Bank          < million
Balance
ColletedoFe s
available
Payments             Receipts            Booeepin



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD        Page 24
Attachment
Clarifications for eligibility of some types of subprojects
Both small public infrastructures and economic activities are allowed, but some types of subproject require
special attention.
a)    Public infrastructures are such as under KIP, and can be done by the community or by contractors
contracted by the community/group following shopping procedures. Water supply installations would in principle
not be eligible, given that the PDAMs would have to be involved in the process to make sure that water is available,
pipes are the right size and location, etc.; however, RTs could use grant funding for partial payment of standard
connection fees.
b)     Some environmental improvements, such as composting initiatives, can use grant funding only for the
capital cost, not for the subsequent operation; O&M should be viable without subsidies. If this condition cannot be
met, then the capital subsidy should not be provided. This should be verified by the facilitators/oversight
consultant. The grants can cover regreening of parks or areas for public use provided the land is made available.
The environmental guidelines in the Project Manual have to be followed.
c)    Proposals for agriculture on idle urban land have to attach a written contract with the land owner, showing
his permission for use of the land, the allowed period, and any agreed fee, and signed by the parties and witnessed
by the camat (to avoid the land user later claiming land rights and the land owner claiming rights to the output
proceeds). Rotation of land users may be encouraged, and means found to avoid current users not caring about
depleting the soil, not rotating crops or not fertilizing as necessary for sustained use.
d)    Community housing and urban renewal proposals, have to follow kotamadya land use plans, and have a
full financing scheme presented at the discussion of proposals at the Kelurahan Forum. Menpera's scheme may be
followed. The Bappedas II may be requested to review the izins (prinsip and lokasi) and to revoke expired ones;
this could free up land and could lower land prices.
e)    Land acquisition. No proposal should require more than minimal land acquisition, and none will involve
involuntary resettlement. The project's land acquisition and resettlement guidelines are in Annex. Records of any
land acquisition and people's consent will be maintained by the Administration office/Treasurer of the project in the
kelurahan. The project funds cannot be used for land acquisition. Guidelines in the Project Manual have to be
followed.



Page 25                       Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
KELURAHAN COVERAGE
A: SUMMARY BY PROVINCE ON JAVA
Phase 1: NORTHERN JAVA, BANDUNG, YOGYAKARTA AND MALANG
Kelurahans >7,500
PROVINCE        Tk II    Kecamatan   Kelurahan    Grants    # Kelurahan         1995 Popul.
#  1/                    Rp bn      Facilitators     Millions
DKI Jakarta        5           43          249          224          487             7.71
West Java          15         192          542          203          587             7.94
Central Java       17         153          174          55           181             2.11
East Java          17         191          242          98           286             3.71
Yogyakarta         5           47           98          30           103             1.21
All               59          626         1305         610          1644            22.7
First phase, to start in January/February 1999 - details overleaf
Phase 2: Eligible kelurahan, to start about September 1999
NORTHERN JAVA, BANDUNG, YOGYAKARTA AND MALANG
Kelurahans <7,500
PROVINCE              Additional       Kelurahan          Grants           1995 Popul.
Kecamatan                           Rp bn            Millions
DKI Jakarta                       0               16               1.6               0.09
West Java                        11              400              40.0               2.06
Central Java                      2              569              57.9               2.37
East Java                        18              528              53.8               2.10
Yogyakarta                        0               27               2.7               0.15
All                  +31             1540              154                6.7
"SOUTHERN" (rest of) JAVA
PROVINCE         Tk II    Kecamatan   Kelurahan         Kelurahan     Grants    1995 Popul.
#  1/                      <7,500        Rp bn      Millions
West Java            11           87          292            265         35.5          2.05
Central Java         18          168          570            384         94.4          3.42
East Java            20          142          498            403          68.3         2.75
All           49          397          1,360          1,052        198.2        8.2-
Note: Kelurahans also comprise urban villages, as classified by BPS.



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD             Page 26
B: SUMMARY by KELURAHAN SIZE
KELURAHIAN    Very small  Small           Medium       Large        Very large   Total w/o    Total
very small
Population       <7,500       7,500-      15,001-      22,501-      >30,000
thresholds                    15,000      22,500       30,000
Grant /kelurahan  RplOOm     Rp250m       Rp500m      Rp750m        Rpl,250m
Average/capita    22,000      Rp23,500    27,300       28,750       29,200       Rp26,000
"Northern Java"
# kelurahan      1,540                                                                       2,845
1995 Population   6.7 m                                                                      2.9. m
Grants           RplS4.Obn                                                                   Rp764.3bn
"Southen Java"
#kelurahan       1,052        266         28          130           4            78          1,360
1995 Population   4.7 m      2.7 m        2.1 m       0.3 m         1.1 m        3.6 m       8.3 m
Grants           Rp2O5.2bn   Rp66.6bn    Rpl4.Obn    Rp7.5bn        Rp5.Obn      Rp93.lbn    Rp198.3bn
Off-Java
# kelurahan      2,031        609         114          35           28           786         2,817
1995 Population   7.3 m      6.2 m        2.1 in      0.9 in        1.1 m        10.4 in     17.7 m
Grant cost       Rp203. lbn   Rpl52.2bn   Rp57.0bn    Rp26.3bn      Rp35.0bn    Rp270.5bn   Rp473.6bn
Indonesia Total
# kelurahan      4,623        1,635       408          168          188          2,399       7,022
1995 Population   18.7 m      16.8 m      7.5 m       4.4 m         7.9 m       36.7 m       55.4 m
Grant cost       Rp462.3bn   Rp408.7bn   Rp204.Obn   RpI26.0bn    Rp235.Obn   Rp973.9bn   Rpl,436.2bn
Shaded: Phase 1
Off-Java and Total Indonesia shown for information only.



Page 27                                                    Indonesia: Urban Poverry ProjectTAD
FTAR KELURAMAN SASARAN MP TAHAP I
RUPINS1, ust, 11, KM                                                     1, ut. It. K..0-4                3umrAH                    INw, vau 13,                          JUMLAH              I
NLLUKAkIAN                                              tmtua             LAN                                                                                                           U.-     I
MR-)
1.  W  JAKAtCTA                     INM6 51   170,2m,000 Ljr.QzAmady*RE_B"mll    1,199,47Z                                                5-it                        Lwl
1.1 KOM-clyaJakma                               401  36,000,OW  1, Kalliderel                           -             4                 KLhNUFK                         36,1111       1,:W.uuq
j. rancor-                                                                                            32548         1,2wm              MALAKAJAYA                      44,5521       1,25O.Uvq
I L)UKtN ilUA                                       /W.                 ]EYEKES                    3 [,43                  # 44"                                     (1731   t  1.2bulLUM
,2 FENGADFOAN                       24,1091           [,-,u,uw     JTWAUUNUAN                       29,426           7                                                   8941       i,zw,uuul
3 KAWAJA Yl                         17,649           WV,                                                            lbu,wA   -     3 1 UuKtN w I                    J9,259i       1,z5U.
4 FANCOPAN                     i   22,729            750,-DM                                                                                                         4S,915 f       1.250,uoq
2, Crm-gk.m                         IK794
i!LhN4lF.AKtNU, MALKA I          4.,_,Zv       1,250,UOCI 8. Ciram
103,104    C  iuuuuw                                                                                                         118
1 LENTENQ AGUNC,                   45,17                         2 1CENUKARENG TORUR -------- 46M                1         -    1 1,KELAPADUAWk:LAN                 25,9
2 LIPLUAY,                          i Y,            ovu.uuv      3 i KAPUK                        52,940          I,Z*U.ULM      i 21CIRACAS                        39,8           7,4w,
!        HUAYA                   24,515      i    IOU-uutm     I    usu                            31,492    1  l,Zbu,Uuq
4 CIGANJUR                                           500:'uuu      M     gG    U AMA&               L9,314                    11-ili                                    ou           fw,
3.                                                     5,DDQ,000 3. Gnc.I Peumbunm                   174,494    6i   5,MOgq  9 Mak-r
.LW,DM       I "jK%JWL.                        29.237           f W,UU,4       i  KASXK                        29,m      t    /W.Viq
ZI 10MANU,                       36,5B          1,2                                      US%       42,606        1,7.bo,wq
A 1) IAKA 1   45'"ul                         i IANJUNG LiUREN LrARA          2&21i             ,w,OUq  i13 1 PINANG                      I      IZ816     L    - 
.4 UROGOLSELKr-AN-              1   47,2881                        _.-LAMBAK BMEU-                  34,34i          I,ZW,VA4           LirINA44U MtLAYU               40,065         1,250
31WIJAYAKUSUMA
4.M                                                                 6,TANjUNGDtJRENb=.AlA             22,369                                                     I     75,J*U   71   1. I --k%U tmq
zl'utu-                                                                                      -!SM&m
2 N" PANLiPRAPATAN                                   (50,WD 4. 'irstabom                          226,262 23,719                                                                     250,0001
3 BANGKA                            22,163                        IIKALLANYAR                      28,M              'WIMM  i        I LhUbK                                         250.OEXA
;P'  I,  ziuvxi u t                                           fou'umv Ij41 MUNJUL                                             25O.UE
OW,WLI I1'IBAMSUAPUS                             13,44         ZOU.ULM
Itu'537    4,   5,                                             2,10u"a      f    1W.UMN IibiL                                     10,339          250.wq
I MANcrjARAi                       41,244i         1,250,0M      51JEMBATAN BESI                   27,576      i    (W.904  i  171 FONOOK KANGON
2 butul UVFJ                       43,   1         i,zw,uuu       O,ANUM                           jj,jao          i'Zou'uuta I      I
3 MLN TENU UALAM                   49,799          1250,900 __rMMtIAEAN UMA                        20.256           tQ0,0001 ; 1.5 Kotimadys Jakaft Utart          IAA9      271  2611%
i,zou,uvu     3!TAMBORA                         13,280           Zbu,QUCI if. i Kelapa G                          97,11    31   3
y1rL&WAN                         3 IA"    l,ZbU,uukM ,I llrbufflm _u    i
6- -Ciludak                           115,6461  C      3,500,ODD                                                               III ZlKw-kpA uAuuwj timux I              40,01JI I
L LLUAY, LSULUb                    LY        ----7M-,=   5 . Keb.. NF.R                          148,M      61   4,Z3%UUUI    1 JjKtLAFA(,AULN(jBAKAI;              z7,z3t    1    W,2M
R 5, a 11         bu,        i I KEHON JLKUK                  37,202          I.W.W.Uuto    1  I                                      I   I   -         I
... T_poj           AN              Z-41 bLq          w,uuu       2lKEVOYWIJ-rARA                   29.064           1w,vtm   2. lpadmmtm                            I  I             .  .  .
34,73ui        llzwlv                                         Z7,,W4             50.0001    , IIANCOL                            I 3, 16L  I    *w.UUUj
4SUKABUNUSELATAN                 20,              5WOQq  II ZIPADENIANGANBARAT                     637,593       I.Zbu.vjLq
7- P                                             4,   5,000,mu
ISSIU41                                           -             167,,                            31FADEN                                         1,250.UUUI
52 ..7         1,250,1710     b KtLArA L)UA                    1_              Ow,0001 !                                             -                  I
.2:FLAUUNAN                                                                                                I                   :3. I anjmg rnok                      274.;54
57                       1). I A." ban                         58,1481   5      I.MUUUN -       I I I ANJUNU PRIUIL              27,255    t
114wl         i tANGKI                         11,7.241         Z*ULXAV        Z; PAPAN                          26,944    1   - fw,uLM
2 i KEAGITNOAN                                                            I 13AWANO                59,03Q    1  1.Zbu.Uvq
I 1^1701                               MKUT                       12,4321          zu'u'umv    4,bVNILKJAYA
i                                                                                                                                     5,JD    I  I,Zbu.UUUI
29,1131          100,000      4, TA                                                                                              6"Os          1,250.uuul
2 Pt FUKANGAN SELA I-AN                              I*u,uvu      3 NDOWn                                                                                            49,156    1  1,2w.
3 ULUJAMI                          31,0771         1,zw                                                                                                                         i
4 PErUKANQAN UTAKA                 jb,fl             WOM  TP.1m.-h                             157,669    51   4               Cili.d.&
I                       I JATI PULE)                     J,        i   ,4       -                                  I     47,41Z        l,zw,vVA
1:04,!N77991                       )TA SAMBU UTARA              26,469           75"'u"',        :5EMPERDAMAI                     60,374         1.zbu.
I ; MA                                           I./*U.tjuu    j SLIPI                                            5       -                 nMUR               -27,359             1W.Vuq
2                                                    fou't                                         53%             JOVIV44         4;bVKA PUKA                       Z4,711          tbu,
3KAREr                             21,1191          5DO,                                                       i    75u,uuq
4 flUN I UK                                          250,000                                                                       f
D. KCM                              125,1961   611   3                                                                         I
91,1221  .4    2,750,OW       MM          UrARA                 Jbvl            t W,VW4 .3. ranlannlm                          161,9%    4   4,13MOMI
37,10ZI        llzwl         L:b;mRugmqa-                     ZZ,421 ]    I    ,=.ULM          1, PANJARINGAN                                  I,zw.uuq
2 PtllxjVAN                                          sonm         3,JOGLO                          22,3531    I    *uu.uuqI
j KXANtA I PtLA                                     Ouu,uvu       4, KtMuANuAN uTARA               21,036           b              3!KAPUMMUA]                                       ZOU.ULM
4 UUNUN(J                           15,7031          wo,wo - TNIMM A ELAMN                            07-           bOU.ODCI .      41PLUIT                                     i  1,250.=
6 KEMBAMAN Stj_Al               14-              ZbO.Wq                                                      I
1.2 Kotamdyx J.k.na P-.t 1-           927,3711  33                                                                             16. Koi                                 161-
'74&1 51
$1,144i  4.   Z.M,000 1. 4 Kotmm.dya Jakarta r.", 1-                               ploom        i6A                              35-,6641     -T,25um
I CIDENG                                            WO.DVO 1. MatraMan                            146,775    5:   4.750,00%        2: F.
2 PETOJU$ELATAN                    21.3301  -    -  SM.UUU  ---I                                   21,2621                          3,RAWABADAKSELAIAN               Z4,J-1           W,=
16,4211                   -2 PAL MhKILM                        19,8781              DOC        4, TUGU UTAKA                     4b./UYI       1,dbu,
4 FtlUjU V !AKA                    21,6401           buu,c                                         jJ.4U11         I'ZO                         ATAN                 15.4961         500,
4 U FAN KAYU SELATAN             33,2961
2. S...h B                                     4.                  5 UTAN KAYU tTrARA                39,1321        i   ODC -R-,.'glZa.          TA
51lis'N"       I,Zbu,uuu                                              I    I
2 FAbAX BAKU                                         boo,  r-ranegm                              256,4911 7:  6,7WM                                                      JUMLAH
fbu,Uw       I KAMFUN(j MELAYU_               270501          75T=                                          Pmd
3 BIDARA CINA
j. K.m.y.,an                          154,241       _YB"m  __ TIU                                   44.1"i          1.zbu,=    1. 1 KOWMadya Jakarta Selatan       f,
i UUNUNU bAMAKI SFLA IAN 1   26,8931                750,    __TrMMT9GlMSAR_UTAlCV                  23,-4W          -75T=      I.z Kotamadya Jakarta Pusat r        247-,945; 40i 36,000=
22,819,  ------ 7507=         6,CIPINANU SESAR                 11                                                 and r       1, 1 9 9-,4 7 2r -4 9 i- --c C, 2 5 T M
30,M]          I,Zbu.    __T_O                                 11301111        1.25Dw      L.Rummadyajakarta limurP   i  1,675,771f b
____CTARTANJXNU_                                                                                                                  Lorlomm
39,0(A         1,250,000 3. F.I. (;.d..g                      238X7i   6    6,250,000
I &AYU P                         5O.D821        1,2bu,m   -------- Toiir                       5.9BT,115120
89,DD3,  4      22WA                         -4                513351          1,25u,=
t KWITAN(j                         17,8ZI!                                                         45.493i    __T= M,  _lI.JAWABARAT
2                                                                                                  22.-Y"           750.OOC __TT._r'FW p.t- Ikk..i 1-                               O"50,
KENARI                            14,799                                                                     i
3 PASEBAN                          27,0021                               KRG-                                                  1. ;T..b.n
HUNGUK                            ^39v             7bUUUU       6                                45.-Zbl                             UAMUR
19,DUZI        OW.Ow
T.-CF.P.  ..t,                        74439,  -y- fa"m  4K,...t J.ti                                 171,443                  ----TIMFKAR5AFJ                          19,062!         buulom
IC EMPAKA PUTHi HAMA I             31,317          i7wow          I KRAMAT)ATT__                   V,V421                                                                  1
2        LE:MFArA FUUH TIMUR           13,4151          250.=         'ALL  OANU                     16 5'j           _V,                                                            115M.000
----- --- 750,=                                                                         1:
3RAWASARJ                          24,1071                                            H            27,6471          ibu,DOC          WANASARI                        Z7,4u;         fw.UuO
4                                16.12T     I    5                          NAU
71,997i   4   _f;l                                            40,194         7 2 W, 03 q         U L I J A Y A                  16,6401
IKLbUN blKlH                                                        ILILITAN                       41.1211        l.ZOU,
/Uuuu
3 CIKIMI                                  ------ 2M-,OW  37    s., Reb.                           104,908    41   3                 I'SUKARAYA
4 FLUANWAAN                        30,516i                        I PEKAYON                        33.236i                          VuKARANUKOTA                     13.631         250.UQU
1                                RI                      2&821           7                   kkLANUAbIM                   21 631         fbu,uuu
7 T.nah Ab..g                     i   WI"f  5         4                                               19.61 1 i
IKAMPUINU BALI                     201411                        4 GEDORG-                         26,240i                            ih
llr:llllll KIN                   28.315 i          I bu,uuu                                                                     -m                                   .633,
C,,i3N M,                        39,142      _f, 2                                             182,457   6 .                   2 MEKARMUK-n                       9313           Z50.000
MOM N                       30,98C                                                          46 4         1,250,uu         3 SIMPANUAN                        9.0481
--IURE F I tNUSIN                  --73-.5 70           lbu.000                                        14 G681          ZSD.=
3 FeNurum[NGAN                   44.622'                                                           35,429'  2    1.000,000
4   s3wwo                                                                             I BABELAN KOTA_________WM ------- 50TOOO
I ivK -u                          i                                 AKUNOTIMUR
2KAMPUNG RAWA                      35,882                              WA IbKAIL
37.974         1,250,Wo



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD                                         Page 28
PRC15 M 11, K
IMP                                                 luan U,        N                                            KELURA                                     aH
7,                                                              I    WIV           IrAL'UMBUNSARI               M.7721   1   250.
i ZIPASIK                                                                             _706r-7 --5ww
11,20611       250,000   1                                       I                     JNUUAYJAII          I    lu.82        250,00(
AIUAYA                  11.206i        250,000                   --------- 33;3"    5!   1,250,            4, KARAWANG WETAN             21, 2          OD-MO
I                          lt&AK                            I   25U.UUCI      5 i KAFLAWANU IkULUN
-fR-ou-w--9v-.-IQ0                                                                               1   z5u,                                       IT-3or-      -500-100
IT                              1140,15         -,W,Mo   12!NANqGEWMU ------------ 9,W,                              -61mumw-
3PAKAINSARI                                                 UASARJ              --2TM3    i   5oo,ow
A SA                                              41CIRJUNU
31CII51NONC,                                           i Rgd-
3KO                                                                                                              i 1,KEUASDENG
2; REGASD
-NJUANG                   I   46,27                      I IIkUIA HATU-               13,501
SIAKAJAYA                 Z7,3            tw'uQQ       FAWILARAN                                          4 Jmm.
iliCIOMAS         ---------- r-350                        ltpuc
.i sd.u.                       - J  7 i   4,5wOOG
IJAKA bAMPURNA            i   52,1          1
KA                      i 37,626               12.JCi-                         7,6541 11 25
KAMULYA                   ZU,4611         5Q01WJ   1 111SENUUNUAN -                7,6541   i   2 5LO
4    kKUAMULYA                 14,27                                              i
5                              21,                    Msimpy.                        13,662  6                  I IWTA
6    WMA                      16                         IJUSAL.AK                    12,8451       250,UUCI   1 2 LEMAHABWG
7                                                        ZiBAKTUAYA--                 47,056F-      1'zw.uuq    i
-fMk KAKJAYA                                          7 T.I.kis.
3Bk-                                                        41SU     FLYA
I&N J                     1   J-%624                     JKALJHA U
2.p N"AMINAN                                             b[SUKAMAJU                   33,6741       l.z5u.uoq  S. VJRi
3 B UVINU MtN I tNU                                                                                         I      IKANTUNKERJA
tKUAHAYU                                                                          92,                                                                     250,221
II I L)bF'UK                  29,126F   I   75U,UM         1
13SPANJANu JAYA              24,31Z                   1 21 RAMMAPAN JAYA           -7059          5ou Om   II. 6    p
7 BUJUNU KAWALUMIJU           69,27         1,250.0           iPANG                                                  P.
MJAYA                                 750,00C
4                    UKA DAMAI
-47B--m, Gb"g                1   5        5    1                                                                    i 2 Bi I UNU JAYA
I                                                                                     48,418F  51   rlznm
FI-51IF--     2wl=
3P      AN              i   14 517          250 000                                 -:-           -15T.=
4                                                                                                                 2TAKUALAM
3. Cipma
IK-MA                          MMI           -,W,Uuv 16.1 Cm-                                                      I uni FAT
2 LIABAINU I hNUAR            '3'440       I'M=        i I I ru(ju StLATAN                                       2CIREUNDEU
i                                                     c3 NAWAR kSARU
ILLUNFUl-UNt,                                                                       5LZ"    Li                    Pl,ANOAN
1,944
LIBUKUY                                                       UNV
16,636       W0.000
')A
,I LbAKI
4j"KA4A                        22.052!        500,000
3 JA It iKKAA4AT               2 051         750,000
I                    MS101 klTIAM                 20,2421-   i
7. P.                            M,7                                 -kr                 16,9501   i
4U811        1,2M=,       31JAMUMV-                    14.036i
------------- MOT ------ 75TUM                                          Z4,3
4Z91        1 2W ULIU   37CIMPAEUM                                                i IJALJNU
OltIAKJAMUKTI
TMEKARSARI
S. J.M.                          33,963i  31    750.UM ---,.3-TTSffZUNUNUb                                             dak A-
JA;mm                                                   9, LISA
nmumi                      13.622i       zso-,=                                                               L'IL)KAN
,J-UWN-
4!lVNUV&AKbN
20.; D-.Za                                      500,00(
2 Fl..51)AN                    LU,4871                         kV-"                    7,971
LtJ                        &M3f          l5u=                                                                  I KE
2 CURUG KULON                 3,8511       25UOM
3cKA
7. P.-
lAkiAN
UNti                                 25u'um
tum
2 LOPAN
T                  3 UNYUR
GSAWAH                                           4 LIfiANUU
2, C'l-                          31,761'                          0                                                                                     I
IDAYEUH                                      250,000           7                           I                     5 hhKANU                I    1
2. Bp.g d.                   -TrID-1-T                                                           i
1                           13,19 1;      250.00(       7 LON I AK BAKU
Z!kKIUJAYA                    9-90ii        25TOM        W'SUMUKyhLUN(J
YUNG                    96271
L LI   uiuu                   8'2w         bu'000          'NU PUNVOK TERONQ
z U I tuKhull                                 ZbO.00V
3 PU
IVAIJUK             i
MUKA
4
3:Bhjl                       26.399i        750,00(
I ANY
-41.0               1 PA  ALANJA-n LAALA
5"00 -2-t-ANDUC-                        8.740i   - -26a.-OOC
-250-OW
6.                                       3t
IANSARI
zsnm
Mr, btLA IAN
7-999i      ---2sno                                                                   fEENI)  BARAT
--fTLA)
--2SO.MC
7-P.,MK JAYA
N     P



Page 29                                             Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
PKCFIINSI, U.-filT. )U&Mm-&.  I      jumck.                            K-...tw
KtLUKAHA'q                      P-nd.dk, KOI.   tiantuan                                                          KELURARAN
10.3601    --250"um    1 JIUWUNU JAYA  --------- m-Im                  Ovu,        K.Jaks-
I   19,93                             AKSAN              I
zbo,m        2 KEShNVEN
8,487                      i                                                        J,SUKAPURA           -T---Wou
P... ic                       60,101   6
81,2521                    1 1 KUNCIF-"                 IZB-                                                               3      750,OW
i 1,4331                  LINLKUKLW                      7.785         250.00q j    I.JAUASATRU                                  Zbo,OUQI
9,4871   I    250,000   - M DhVLARA F'INANG             -8,810                                              1      9,538
3 c                             7,992                        INAINO                 1   10,017                                                         7         zw,um
3,1W           /*U.Uuu     Ipp       ANGAN               7,!,39
3 CM     GN                    9,1811         250.000        NUNGUANGAN UTARAI,   13,090                       U. 13 Kab.patm                           112   37,2MOoq
--TT.MDTRG--                       8,9081                                                                          11. lcip.,.y
7 SEPUR                         9,723,         zzi,uuu I U Ka-ni Tentah                                                         RI                               250,wq
& BABAKAN                                                  IIKARANrj-nMUR                               2     TI -  2 ISAIRUIMAAIFIH              7,716        2*0,um
9 P.-XNAtLAfiAN                  ilbbul        zw,uuu    ZIKARANUMULYA               --TM,         ---M                         DANG               12,897         z5u.wq
BAHAR              I M3           25          1 4 GUNUNGLEUITK
31FUNDOK                                      U'Viq I                                    9 44i        zou.VuLq
Ek.ZOTim.r                      63,o7a I  cr -"wam         4!pONDOKPUCUW-                13,901         zbu,ouq I  1 3 btKANUMbKAR                  8'm           Zw.uLm
SLANG              23 7861                                                  9,.,z          MOM47--,-6,MANGGMUHARJA                    9             2bu,
;w                                                                                                     -                                         336
IT  I I bumut"Atu              10,995         bu.24
--.-KXTUEKRM                       L4,LL41        ZZU,UW                                --3QM       7    2
250,WD                                   14,196         glq    i 2. Mmjmlsya
TM-    25                                                               250,
4-B.V, ut."                       95,4981  7    ZIZ5010013    JLAKANUAN UIAKA        i   16,L62                                                      10,73-6
1 T?.ljALGUNDlJ.               19,7711   I                                              13-79                                                      12,213        250,
2                               11,0191        250,000      KEREU                        6,466                     i 4iBIRU                                      250,
_7MULuff-                                                                              1   ;J,431        525U.UuLjr,   3,buKAMAJ
--CHF                         1   13,5201         ZOU'UUU   17 CIPADU JAYA                 lu'aw      r   zMUMT-73' i
i-ILUAK'                     10,ml           250,000   II                                                   a      TPADAULUN                                   ;dw.
0 I-IMAtti-AX                             I    zbu,u22        Uri                   I   53,2S4   5                       LOKANJERUK           ---Trw             z
JANAI-ibAKU              i   16,950    f    Suo,ow               bpju            1    8,.,63         250                                                              1
i   :                                              13,M                                                                            I
01 Selatsn                  35,UUI j       "OW.                      YAR
1     -,-      I -'AUNUWWAN             I    7,Y62                                     HARAT
bAlUlUL15                                            . I 3SELMWANGTAVA          i   15,471
3                                              zou,uw    I                                                           4SELACAU
9,235        250.UUUI
4 CIPAKU                        Z;,432    i    250,000 1. 10 Kabpam  lndmms"        I  101,229  11    21750,OM
I  -rZ,426         -L-,OAM  4. iPaCet
i   12,426    1   25             1 MARLTYTJ                                 ZbO.0oul
V
01,          ZZ *5 Ou.. 0-M  2. H.,.q-fis               91ml  1 1    256,OM    5. Pmh
11                 9,9481   1   2:50.a        :FlLll'AllU
T7,752i  6i   Z,00(,000
01-MAtt bAXhAL                                                                        1614"I  z I
Z KhL)UNliBADAK                24,915i         ts,3:uw                                                 zw            4 CIPEDES
I uu                             7301
4 KEE)UMIWAKINUIN               2:                                                                               6 Ciml.n                         34
, SU rADANMI                    7,93,!                 4. f.dm..y.                      16,3731  7.1
6 CIBADAK                       11,257         .......     I I LZ&lAttMr-%AX
11.9                             928,2181 71,
&7 4yzl  4
_I                              24,5341        fbu,ow                                                   25
Ci
-7-BARmum-                                                                                                              I
'A   6. i                             "24i  .1                    2 CILILIN
LMUKUL                        19,139i        .0 UDU
14,4791        250,
-"w
112,385i  6,--T73uw                                       YA15    I I
I FASIR JAYA                   21,746                   I IIKAKANIIAMPbLKIDUL           9,618         250,0
ZIATAKE                        17,5471                   i !
21.250i                3. Ostbar-Z                       &0231  11
ATIBAKANQ BARU                                          I 'AYAtW
19,0001                                                                         i
MAN[S JM                     13.020!                    K..d                          le,j  1        25            W                                           500,000
WE7AN               1              25                                                        2w,000
It. tl K.b.p.tm Sbang/-         13F,463   M    4,750,
1. P--.km                       19.2b3   21                                                              750,000
1 1 MULYASARI                   9,545
4 CIPONDOH                      15,4W          500,0(M    !
----FOR19TFCkWXD MRX--               1.501 I      250,000                                  10,723                                                      9,706T       25o,wo
9.01j                2. f ft.k..&Sorm                 20,9941   I
7-CIPONDOH INDAH                10,4691                    I i rUSA&AKA I V              12,4631        25
'FUhAF.AJAYA                               2bo,                                        14,3081       250,000
T-r,T.-d-.z ---------------------- T7;5      , -           i                                                                                                       /aU,DW
I SUD;,MA; BARAT               9.411,        40v,uuv 3.                                                250
bLLAIAN            JU.436                                                                                                                      4    2,
::T WILAN UTARA                                                                                                                                                   Wu,
4 SUMMARA JAYA                  12,872                                                   8,370   1      2                                                        500,0
-T-9                            13.025         Z50,000                                                               3 BALEEND
0 FARUNU SERAD                  10,381
7 TAJUR                                           WU 5. O...                            51        1
IISUKAMANDIJAYA              20,346
21C  SEMUIRANG                                                ?A(,ERAN
31CIASEM I LNGAIJ            in,41j"b               -21-01
21                              9!716i                    4 ICLASEM BARU                               250-.m
10"                          (9
--Tusul 9  k,",                   2  41
4 BXTUTEPETC-                   O'y4b,                e.. !50-.ng                      73,041  51  -IM-,M
I I uGADuW                   15,368         5OTM
Tvl           -MD.W   21SOKLAI                                                         BIRU WETAN
CINUNUK
--Fumx-                           10383
SEEERDUNG--   -               11,839:
10,971   -     2w.000
214.285                       m  i                         58,168i 4    1.5wma
P. -:1    y 11               47.792i        1:                      NAH                 107.059 i     !)UU
I rESAMBI                    10.055i    - 2                                                            bu:w
3 DKAJAT                      2. 71 T241                        s
4-CIM    EJAYA               --T-44q-          250-,DDO    4'bUNYAKA'jl
35,3121
--TZERM                                                       5=1-1911KIVAN-                                                                            61LI    250,0
12 3
3!48bl
I PMUK                      --Tr62T-          25CFOOO 3.
-5MMO    2:KALUA(j
KATIMUNG-



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD                                                    Page 30
p
PRoPTNST.-D--ffTrlC"---.t -1                                                V.u 11, K....tan,                                                                                     XH
KELUKAHAN                                                        KtLUKAH"                       1-Ye-naWuki-KU I    tiantuar
1   5511             1366.W   T--Band..& Wtm                        37,507    2     1,000,M  -fl ' .,g.
--T'CIMPTM EKAR                         g,00 I                                 SARI                   28,809      i    750.00(                                    i     28,7521   i
2 CIBURUY                          II,-,471         250,OW                                           696            ztu'uut
j I A(jUUAFU                  1     9,1231          ZU,uuu                                                                                                          16,424
-                                                                                                                                     17,6211   1    500,
D KhKIAJAYA                                                                                  i      7j790           250.0(X                                                          -;O"M
2; KEBON PIMNO                -T4-,60
26r,W-z.h.yu                          75.239    41   2,OM,00         31MEELDEKA                          546      i    250,M                                     1       9,487         250,0
IbUr,AMhNAK                        16,9451    1    500,000       -I UAVA&AN C" S                     13V
750,000
W-M     g J(.k,             --52.557
UxtiEULIS                 11,87i
JUMLAH
-----TStJKALLJYlJ                                                                                   F-ddk 1 Kel. i    BantuTn
7,648
I BANJARAN WETAN                   13,ju5l   T--Zsnm             4 ClUAL)UNU
2                             I     9,              /,uw       I                                                                            Hokasi r                              6,---
3.ClAPUS                      i     Y,J..f I   1    250,000           nyi.g Kid.]             i    71,Yj   5                                Bekasi
I                                       I                      1CICAVAS                           13,3(01    I
2 Dyhk.lt                           51.1  !          W5w,000                                              1                                                                        30,50010uq
T-CA-lZGKUAjqUWhlAN                 lu,            zbu,                                     i
-I                       !JISUrA U                   I    113601
-i Z LAIIUKUANL. KULUN                13,7131    i    500.000    14iSUKAPAL)A                   1    15,258                                                                           I"dDuuu
12,JJ4                                                                                                                          42,7011 291  8,150,
I    I    250,000                                                                      =ugp,en zwang                                  5,25u,ou
IVAYbUULQI                        15,816i  I                                                                                                            #  749 415 13,250,Wq
i                                                        73,Wly    5                    KOtiMadya TwWntng7
---TTCIC?amum - --------------- Rm               I    250,M11111.10
23iAFjU..                              8,138f   1 1     M,000                                                                                                                      --Z75UZM
maoupaien incremayu
w,uw        21 B"AKAN S(JRABAVA---,--T4,7W              1    25           11
=r  I -
3 KEHON JAYA"           -                   I                 I
24 C' --y..                           49               1,250,000     csEJECAPURA                                  I    SW,UL-Allll.lziKaoupatenBandiuN         --  1,4Z3,5151112   37,250,UUQI
F-PADASUKX-                        1.1B, L t      o                                   ri          12,4541    1    250,00(11111.14 Kolamaaya tSaMung r            1.4zbl
Z,L(lJhUNYfNlj                     20,Z5                                                  .  I                                                                         -
3 CIMENYAN                          3'slill         250,000 12.1gt .. agg.1                                        1,750,ODIIF---    ----To-gF-               I 3.229.4Z
4 L113UKIAL                         8,4031          Zt-U,UUOl    IIKACAPIRIKG                                       zw,uuta I
I                                                        14,933           20
2-311N. golmg-                        Z9,538(   Zi       zu,        J UUMUKUH                   1    14,246                                                                          49,250,
rANUALLNGAN                                                                                 !  14,1 15,3;L   -M"w                        ii-E .              i 65'awl 7 --p
I -4                                                                                                                                 F 7som
 -AH                                                      I TKE901rMDANC,                     9,0515                                9-                         19,1014   21     500,6m
6181NONU                         14,254                               luMAKJu                       Y12 [   I    2tV
2TNZA.P,.h                             9,86T    I f     MMO ---7,ZAMOTC--                                                                                                9,5521
__LNtAKI,AIAYA                         9,867                                                                                                                                       1    2_
1   62,170    61
D3iRt   21       500,000        PALEDANG                        7,500                                                             8,6921  11      250
1 6  ONUM)ANG                                                                                                                                                        8,6921   1    250.
2 T  IALUAK                                                       3MALAOAR
!i uo I                  :vuta I  11PENYANUMNUAN   1   7.
294 M.'p-h                            57,7931   4 ;   t,Z50,000      3; FURANWA                       14,733           I..:ULN4                                  I
I ME                               21,1471    7    *w,uuu        6,Z:IJAL.RA                       9,6451                                                     P
IXAKUAAb                        "'.,                                                                                                                              8,7071  1       M,000
2sulaw                                                    L                       EFIRI                          8.707         250,000
3LAC,ADAR                          10.012     .                                                                                      C      N73
.    250,QW  14.;                                             "!
4 RAHAYU                      I    12,411-    ---Zsnm                      K                       7,962           250       5. ISO'                               10,159   11
UIA I LUL                       8,6                             %OJA
3D K.12P..g                           49,001 j 5       1,-%,000     3 ANLUL                          lf),U64
IYAlAkAN(j                          8,33                         4iC]GEROLENG                                                                                                 I          000
2LILAIMPEN1                                                                                                                                 LSEWU            1
NUAUIJAN                        M501            2M-,CW       6,PASIRLUYU-
SUKANHM                    iM46i             :ebv,uuu                                                                            o.t.. BRtm.e 1-       1      66,0431- 41   -1,06,W
LINMIN                                                                                                                                                                             45
kik-                         58,019i                       LiKA                                                                &AbhFUHAN                      11,4721
4     ilsmooo            KANU ALNYAR                  9,6761                           IKARANUASEM                                     500.000
IM     AL&.-AN                    25,076i                                                                                                                          LU,1241
I            .    13,JZ9                            iKAUMAN                         11,4301         25D,UUQ
2150JUNULOA                        13.261           250.000      4KARA5AK                                    I    250,QOQUT--' 4                                   22,397i        --30T=
4    EUUN'j                         9 92            250,GUG
LALY.EK &ULON                9754            Z,WU          El bf jAi                      69,      4 1                              F..W-z 1-             215,755[ 171   5,750,000
P-M..j
32 P.,o.p..g                          39,196,  4i                    ZBABAKANASIH                    14,278     i    250,004       i L FELUIAN                         22,204    1    500,000
16.111i        M'O-,Cw       3; KOPO                          ig,146,          - -                          NtiKA               10,3141         ZbU.
9.6927--- ----250-,CW                                         15,289[    i                                                                 I
- -                                                   5                                                15,185 i        5onm
-TsUGTRWMUU-                                      25nm
4 ,A UWANlil                       9.0301          25UOW  T7-Mimloa Kid.i                         18,52,5[   1 1                  TBOTOITGRAMN-                     9,776
i YLttUN LFUA                    18,5251
12. T....                             37,285!  31   1,000,000
8.510i   i                                                          I                                             -
7             -       ZSU-=   Is. B.b.k   Cipi,                      64,1801   S!
IBABAKAN                                                         liKABUNAN
34 P.    gp-k               ------ frr7y--T--    T55-.w    ---
4tVNbAKI                      10.712                        1 ',VAKU Y U U 1AKA             JT
9,7911    i    250,GGO       4i                                7,6181                                                           47,796i
r3wlr-    "",                                              ---qTBlF- 2m.uuO
tO,7391   1    250-.=
19. B.od..g K.1-                    55,1C                            3jMOGA
1. N.k.-                                                OOTM        I UBUNIU                          4                                   KUN(,PKIN(,
ITSOLA                                                                                                7                            4jWA                              7:1146111
23.430t          (50'am       2 CUEFAH                            341          500,
605          250.         3 CIGON  EWAK KALER               ll,,6407241      251:      i4. Rnd.do.gk.1                   --- 25,49512         756,GM
23.335i          750,OGO ---4-GEMPoL SARI                                       250             tiRANoUDONGKAL-
4 SARIJADI                          9,424                                                                                                                                              D,QM
20 Cm.d.,
64,3771   4 1   1,46ffw                                        14,w 1 1         ZDU.UtA
ZU,uuu                                                        WIX11           1, IURWUSAKI                      7,613     f    250,GUC
AN IAPANI [hNlAM                9 469           buu,uut        21pupwo
17.046          SUCFM                                                             buv,uuu
4 S  A       A                                                                                                              j6l A.P.1g.
21. A,u.-ik                          37,6W     3                                 KI                    1
---,-MX             KULON           13,2051          Zb            A'l
N                       20.049i          5                                                                        ----7-rMRUKLUWkJNt,
4 PAMOYANAN                                                  22.Uj                                                                2;                                   60i          2
5 SUKA                                                           I                                                                  :AUIWLKNA
T-X.-d,T                                                                                                                          2  D.k.ht.,i
2W,00
25U=                                                                                 KATON
4  A                                                SDD-=   ---Flix                                                           3K ... t
7.889i         25TOM
3- -ruif.-p                                    --2 -- 7-qow   - 4-0            UK LUN                 9.425                          2MEJASEM
-IR,650
2 MulARMAN
WETAN                    9-121          2 50=
L



Page 31                                                    Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
PRUP  5" U-b 11' K-.At-,                    kMLH                                                                               rmuri                                       JUMLAH
KtLURAHAN                        j F-ddkl Kel.         9V=n                 N                                           1".     lItLU-     N
MP-;
7. D                               9'1)14   1      25                                              41,652   4 1    '-'w4
20'    ULLNUONO
10,6111    50
6. 'M.M.wi                          --- 24,3UI   21     00,000 S. J..                                  5.331    I[
I VKUPUF,                                     7---Zsnw                  KtjttAN LOR                5,331           z.,u
I MAKtiASAKI                       I I.J24I         250,000
I    !                                                   30,3321   9    Z'2         ;9. B..y....ik                  i     67.7-5 71   1.7
7 L,bskm                                                                                               7,795    11      m           I1, MltbKhy                         12,196! 1    250.00DJ
I VTkm-ANSAlu-                      Y.6j I I                     I I KA                                                          j2: rtUALANUAN                      7,7471
I             -                     I                                                       It    3jSROND0LXnO
1zlym                --  2. gangsfi                                              5WAM        j4;SUMURBOTO
Eil %5ALffiAr6 ;NZ,, wETAN       j    12,950                        I I BANOS RI                        871      1    250          i5 I PADANG SARI-                    '3
21W haN
[11.5 K.b.p.t- Bb.              1  120,"4   121   3.000,0W  -        1.                                                             '71 11 9 xi [MC lrjAy IYJU N U     8,41
AIR                                     250.                                             73,379!  61   21OW10001
14.>97                       2SEKUKQ                                                                                             I0'89qF---T-----2w0m
311AMOU                           8,6291  1  250                  IiP=   -  -                  -----
I                 !11 ;LAMON(jAN bAJU                 10,
2.B                                                             4.  .h...
-2LI                                                                                    41MUKTIHA  IUDUL                 23
21 KALIERANG                                                     I J KECAPI                                                                                                    1    250,
uuKuhl Ulu                                       2buluuu   2NCABlUr-                            l'bJ41                   I I 61PEOURUNGAN                        8,48z   I  zw'utm
j. W.."An                                                                                              9,741    1                111.143.k                             9,632
I KLAMPUK                                           25000               )NG LOR                                    250             lilltNU"AKI                       9,632
2 PtNAN I UNAN                     11,133                                                                                    I      i
1             111.12 KA                             39,729    31   1,000,    112.11                                  211481   1,    Z50,
4. J.tib.,-g                     i    3                                                               IU,578    1                                                       3, 43
.'Wu                                                          10,D-7W                      -i                                   T7:
WFIBARANG KIDUL                                                    ANUCEN                                        glq  !  ZIPETUMPON                                  5"
I               i                                                                           II  1 JIbAMYANVA                           7 723
H.I.k..b.                           64111    1       mlooo 2. w                                              I
IltIANJAKAIMA                                       zw,wV    , I-MM,                                                          Ij I G.Y..
19,1721                           Z--                              04    11                     iGAYA                            15 795
9,41D           250,000                                                        5                             0                                  250,000
2:KE-FANC,GUNGAN                    9,762           250,                                     p
i                                                          TIM    Kb.pt- Sm-                                                       i
aA47                    I .                                    80561   1                                               It:
I            Kju                                                 I HAWE
PROPINSI, D
THTK--t-S--ATY-&-p&-W-0-RgAQ 11       71,216           2,000,M12, Abmwa                              20,3551   2 1                                                  Fmd.dk KOI. I    BantuaH
I .Pekalongan B""'t                   2V94              750,000     1 1 FANJANG                                        zoul         I                                            I
I MEL)UNU                          IJ,L-JU          zw,wu        2 Ku                              12,6011         zbul
2PODOSUGM                          &910            250,000                                              1    1               111.1 KaOupaten K-endeJ
BENDAN                            9,274           zwuuu                                                                                                                    4    -I'bUU,LULq
J.                                                              1112
LOU,      111,3 KaDU                                           D'fW'uuL4
k.lo.g.
IPI                                                                                                                              MA Kabupaten                         lbl.ets1l 15    4,000'am
6401                                                                                          Kabupaten Bmbes r                                 uuu.mm
lv'           m        1. AZ...Iy.                                                          Kotamadya Pekalongan              71,21C)i  al  2'uu0'QVq
J KICA JUN LUK                      IL367                        I!LtLXJ&                           7,597     I    zou.        U  KoMmadya Tegal                   139'Zill         500.0m
If.a K.10upaten E31cra              40,5901  31  1,000,00q
79171  Tr---EWW                                                        1 1    5UV       11I.-J Kabupatm  Patt r               Its.ml 2         wo.ULM
%T'Y-Mg % M                      7,9171                   E7711MILIOWINANUILIN                                   ow.       111.10 Kabupaten Kudus r
111.111   - -- i
Qdw                                        1"419   Ii                111.14 M ,'.len 'I..l                                1,000'm
W.U1541  4  1.000,01Y
jlll.14tamadyaSa
111.7 Kt ... dy. Tn.1            j   139,217   10;   34M.000 4. Sid...                                                                  a                                            lu'lbu'u
1. Tnal Sdatan                        ^i7bi   A;        75U,UUU                                                                 I  :
I,uzl           ZU'uvu                                                        Z!)                      otal                                 Q1,250,00(
57K.to.adya Sem.r-g        659,1091 57   16,750,
2. M-Zd...                                              500,000 1.           ut..                               7    2-100,0001 1 IV. DTND-GVXRAXTX-
zou'uw      I. tSAN                           18,7341          5w,0001 Iv.1
2NALIUANUSA                        10.026!                   --2WRWVSAXJ                                            Z."       1. Knfiba-ng
NUAN
reg.1 -r-,                         40,931[                              kYSARI
I MiN I AQhN                      16,314,  -     -sw(m                JLQR
2SLEROK                                             Z.V,wu              IDUKAN                      7.9131          250.UUL  L K.kp          ----------- 17xrl -I 7-79 Im
j KkJAMIJUN                        RN"NI                                                                 ----------- 5m 221        FHARGOM                                          250.000
I                                                                                      . 2 KAR(jU                          10 127! 1
4Tn.1 B ... t                    1   48,4561                                                          49,4731   41   1,250,
IE(jALSARI                                        750.0W                                                         250,
I4.9j3I         250,000      2 gul;ISIG-Aw                     9,750[          250,      3, Gi                                  16,2291  2i     30
3 PEKALIMAN                                                      i GINN
4-MLAIIUAKU                                                      2:JATTMULYU-                       7.9J6
1.3                                 -.5.1            I'W000
L J.P..                                                         J. .a                                                           4. S-tol.        ----------- = i  I I                 250,01)(
---l -IEPON-                           10.2481
L. C.P.                               30-1A21   r---7SWW            3       (ARAN                    _I 1,606i                                                          39,9941  4,
IBALUN                             12,0t5l  ----z5nw             4, KEM JAN'j ARU                 18,8331                                rz
ICEPU                         i    19,327'    t    5            , 1  KAN(i AYU
6, KROBOICAN                     143
II 1.9 K.b.p.t.. P.ta 1-                                                    DRONO                     16,764
T-T.tl
I NIIJUKIU                         9,6401                                                                                     V.2 K.b.p.t- R.m.17f=
1. B..g..t.pa.                                     5w uuu
-gkil                             10,047!  -1 -J---H6,0-06             MAN                                                                        ---------
I IRANUKIL                                                                                                                        2 EiA FU
bup.ten Kdus 1-                                                     )5ARI                     11.441                        K-H..
LK.i-..g.                                                           2 PU  VYMI(
7-5                         3 NGAJAN
2. B-
---GMDANQMANIS                                          250,0U0                                       47,4014 i   4 I   I'z5u,                                          22-M441  2!
Z                              18,9661  ll-     SW606
-T-uo                                                                                      -                       zou
LSARI                     15,333
[tu                           8,
K.d-                                                    7. T-b.]
=p
8,815
JEIF--
IANG-
6
I      LO                              13 i         250-'Myo
FFOlu-                       9.043  - 25T.00D



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD                                                  Pige 32
b-I U-U II,                                                                                                                         11, mm mm,                  3UMLAM
N                      l,1MUdUk                    KELURAMA                           Ftnmwuxi Kel.,             f.W.UKAHAN                           FCWUCLuk i Kill.!
3. r.k..l ... n                                                                                      L4,1111  L[     zsaOODJ
1     5,5Z7     L                             u                      14JII
2[WUIKbJU                              21  -L       w viu
23.138                                                    1     37,418   41   1100010001
3                                                                             9,435   11      250,0001
2 13AUSAbRAN                                                                  L                   9,4J3    ;    250,
I 5UMVZt-IUNU                    Izz3J      I                I                                                                                                            I
2.CANUEN                      I        u                    >. hfis                                        2
j   42A%                        jUUWUNtiAN                                                   J    2-%JNUOSAJU                      7,942    1    250,
13,OD61    I    zbu,uuu    i                                                                       DUAGUNG                    10,042
iNza-p-la-k                            -,I                                                  -
14,07rr--l                   I NUAMM-NN                                                     K.t..&   Mojokerto                37,07,4   41   1,000.0001
i               i2 NGTOFRAJAN                       "VI            zou,
IJ7rI", a n                         2B--uO1   2       750,000   f                                                            1. 71TIRANWAN                   i     lu.m
I FUNLUbAKI                  ---n,72                       T  Krawn                             17,4791   2;              1                                      9,029
2TRIMUR11                        16,                          TPhItFUN                     1     7,9                     11
2"KAD)FAILN                i     9,5561                                                         17,141
11 IISALbNLibAlU                       8,591         250,00C
I  WOKUKRUMO                                                                                             3                            NUUNU
1 Z1]`"KJ:I                                                      I;  GWARU                                      ;Mo OEM      II
i                                                                                                13 bw           zw:uuta 1 V.3     mad  Sumbaya               1,775,020  92
ltismagi                                                                                            B:b IV     J    ;d0U,UM* 11.                                   7JAM      7
4,51           z*u,=         i                          I                            III[ILIDAki ULFJN                        9,347
9- Uondoku...S.                1   44,712    31
2I SRICADING                       9,311                                                                                -     IILONTAR                           L4,bbl    I    zwuuq
It"AN                  I    14,         J                                                          I   I            I
11,641    1      250,0011    2 i KLNREK               I    1-111.      i    bm!                                             39'm     3 1   1
y"M        LY                                                                                             1    zw.uvA iiI i K.AKANu FMANG
TMJIMU    0                        11,641          ZZ)u'uuu     3MMANUAN                    I                                                                   -8,495
1                                           i                                             I               I                 ItKEBRAON                          15,905         50B.00CR
13, Kmtk                                              250,0411) 10. Kotag                     1    z5Jm      31                  1J1KhL)UKU5                        15,585
V,uVO          250,00E)     hPRENGGAN                                            .um                                                   I    50010M
ly.3iKab.p tm Umu.g Kd.1                                           21PUIMAYAN                                       ZWOOC  3. [Wiyng                                                750,OWI
'M                                                         250,0001
MA16    91                                                               i    750,           11HAIMIAN                                  1    250,
won.man                              744            MOOD                                                    1                   2 1 virm
I I KEF'kK                         9,744           ZW,UW  II.jM&utnjmm                          37 750    3 J     TSOM        J AIA
I 1TRYOD1Nn9G1&Cr--                              250,OOC
MANI KMrKUN                    I I,W      I    z              u
zw.uwl  i                                                      50
MINI&  V                                                                                                     2 !UA 1" TMUCWM KALI KENDAL
I     1GUNLINUSARI                    12,ulf
12,                                                                  15
3.! S.....                                                                                                    z I                     U&utt KUMN(I                  14.775,
im       ;;KUSUMXN  ------- 77"              ;   -2                                                9,555         250,
.2 KEPAFAKAN
10,662    1      25D,001)                                                                                                     52,3Wi  47--,
I                                 10.661                    13.iW.,.b,.j-                  1   28,788f  31        7so %97---,TrMWXEXqKk.KIU
I iWIROURAJAN                    9,4321    i                   21JEMUIRU'XUNUSAIU               10,9301         Ow,=Il
37 T.                                 Slu --TF        ZnN         2 PATANUPULUrt"                   a..'a I                                RLJE)                    9,1601         250.
I                                  4,96>     1                 j,FAKUNLhN                       H.28L           250,00C  1
& NZ..e.                                                      T"mb.Ih.,J.                           33-397    4                      -g                                            250.01501
__I. rAMrUNII                                                                                                                      IKA                             12.135
2: lAkiUNAN                       O..Y.t
7. Sipt.S..                           7,756    1       250,000     3 WAFUNGISOTO              I      8,447[                      V.Y."gan
1;KEPEK                      I    7,756            ZMuLlu      4MUJA-MUJU                      lujuzl    i                      "'Ayu,"'AN               I                    2-50
I1Z: Kh I IN rVTG                     R!,
9JG    g,..                                                    Kingkasan: Ut YOGYAKAK IA
T                                  T75                                                                I                         ung                             38,735!  31
1.000,0001
M PiNSi, D.ti ii, Ka.at,,rl,                 NU-ILH - -----              LIRUNGKUr
9. 1 F.I,Y..                          7,74% -  I       250,000 KELURAHAN                       i P-ddk I Kel..    Ban                     NfiBARUr.                 10,606          25u,q
EI-NGDUWET                        7,766     i    250,000                                                                                U I KIDUL
298.550 --321   7,5W,OOGllV.1 Kabupaten Kulon Pmgo           10t,3461 12                !9.   n, R2,1.s mepy.                 Z3,9401  2 1    sm,00al
1. W.P.39                            47MZ    41   1,000,0001[V.2 Kabup-aTwn-ff8-nEFP-             ,ujul Zfi                                                      -FM51   1    25(.OEM
lJt5Atx,,-AIUK                    12,%        ---7w-o                                  1        85,4161  j i                                                   -11-TO37- - 20,224
11                      3 "allpal       U       U       .,5501 zz
TRIHANWO                       11.992     i    25       IV.* rOTZMaCYa TOgYaKafM                  11 jql  W,=I            j     ng Anyu                      19,2911  2
10,471                                                                                                .., I -.-
i    I                          Total           ---T'107.95at ic4,, 30.250.                                              9.298          250,DDOI
2. LM1.6                                                                                                                         i  !                         I           i
7,78(,T--                                                                                                                    50,5831  41   1,000,
V. JAWA TIMUR                     3,551.7641 242!  94,00D
V.1 Kb.p.ten Sidosrjo              104XTF-10.   L                                M-Mrm              5,54yi   i    zoul
3,KLAMPISNIjASEM
T-S                                                            1. StdorJO                                                                                   : ,                   250,
40v.wu   i 1: LhPAAH FU I KA                                  /W.             MLNUK rUMrUN             I      14t IJJ
3 m                                                25u,wCY 2. K...                                                        112.                                   36,6701  Y7--""m
1 KRIAN                                          zw,             M     ARSABIUMAN               14.610i   J
4, Kaloon                            24,11" 12 i       5MIUM
ANI                12,756i         Ybu'uvu T. W.R..                               7,7041   IF
I:WUNUUULU                       7,704 i    .    250,
13. Gubeng
3- -Sij.p.                           16,71                     4. Lid..gan                          17,8771   I    500,           1 PUCANG S                        4.692         250,00C
A     ..a[                                                                                    Y.31                         2 AIRLANWA                       29,1341         750,0001
1 M
M                                                        ---T-mgEu--                           8,2291                                 A=                       14.9351
2 AKIjUAFjUNG
16-7071        500,Wq
6.. D".k                             81,4                     3. W-                                 60             1               MLKJAJATA                 ---27.087!            75(,Wq
I CONDONGCANUR                    30,104t    1   11250'auu                                      12,975i          250
rtphLbul
j KUKMbAKI                       1 z-J39,        zzu,           IIWUNOKRL)MO                     13.D461
7. G.d..ft                           20,1Ut-f-         WW          4 WADUNriSARI                     9.113 i    ---2               2 SAWUNQUAL  U
I Si OLUHUR                        9,35fr--r---25DGW              I KUrL)L)U                    15,3931                                 LKWv
2 Sf VAKUM                                                                                                                      4; OA"lo                         zo 970i
V.2 K.b.pte. Mojokefto                7,7731   1                    5iNGAGEL
1. 5..k.                             7,7731   V.
Ou'uu      I hUL)ru                                                                                         94,974
19,293         500.DDE4
V.3 Kh.pat- Bjmgol. II               I        I-      soow        1ZWUNUKWV                         25.6141  -.     15U.Dcul
5mlogo      .3 Kb?U I KAN                     21.676          5w.uuq
_250-M  -7-TIMOUNUUUM)
2 LEDOX KULON                     9. 166 i       2W.=
mal,
HARIO                                               VA Kb.patm Tb..                     24,213i -T-       7MM           I
11,51                        I                                 8.387[         2WW
81161    1      250-,M
JV.SW  t.. d                                                               qt;
41
I ALON-ALON C    ONU             9.305i
7665            25(y.         2BLIBUTAN                       14.989,
3    PA                           7.541        750.
1.                                                                                                                                   GUNDIH                         26.639,         750,0001



Pagc 33                                                   Indonesia: Urban Poverty PrqiectPAD
rtNbi. U.11 11,                         3.rd&H
KbLUKAtlAN                                                       KLLU.--11
JKP.i                                                  L    tKii
MG-teng                                                          14. Pumobuju                                           SWIM    13. Dompit
I,&tIA1$ANV                   1     9,507           zo.'         1.  VtNAN                                        zou'm          I UAmrLi                            w 6           750
ZIULNItINU                           9,016                      i Z;PUKWUHARJO                                                      i
j1FhNLLhH                           16,432                         1                                     1    1               V.15 Kt...dy Watmg I'                 539,63Z  36!  114.750,1311111"
4  EMBON KALLASIN                  12,827           Z!)U,I)W  13 (ientmg                          37,2731   21   1'064,m                                           au'Y7
GENTENG WE7rAW-                                                IIWLAI                          Ju'Ku3         1.250,0001
19 Ta.bak Sad                                                       _2_M
173,242    YF--43WW                  Ir.NU&UWN                  20.5501          *WIVLM         2 KEDUNUKANi                       3.6931         250,00q
751,Mi   1                                                1                   j ISUMLAYU                         7,607
I! rALAK &LLINU                    27,177      1                                                                                                                                     ZW-i
2 1 KANUY-Nh         ------T--TFM             -i     500.000           M                           1z1jz7i   II      Z5%QM         4iLEMNPURO                         9,486          2-'Ai
1 3 IAMISAKbUU                       Z"Ij.                           RmVJAMpI                        Iz1jz71         zbu.wc         5WALWOPURO    -             ----FrM
33,24.1                                                              I                        6 SAWOJAJAR
7.3,3211   2     soom
I'JAJAU                          13,2&41          ZbU,UUL  Z 5.k.n                                             -3-Z5111-1111111111
201 Simi                                                                                               10.0371    i    Z*V'uuL  I      I bUPLUN                         Z3,112
I KAPASAN                           15,11/1    I                                                         ;    :  -                 21JANDULAN                                        250,00q
21, 71    ,    50U.000 V.  Kb.p.t- B-do-B                      26,511121   X     fWWU          J-&AXANUNtbUKI
31SIDOVAL)i                         17. 047    1    500,000 1. 9-do.0-                                                           14CIFTOMEJLYG                       6,165
4TSPRUGkWURG--                                       ,    liKOTAKULON                                                             fib"UUANOI                      (,BID
I    1                  2! DABASAH                                        zou'ums        O!MULY                            ti'my           ZW.UUUI
21 Keiam.                              64,3621                            DEAN                          4!pzu I         4W.004         7!(jADA                          IO,)77
I!bIL)VLVruwr.1                                                                                                                    1
2Q           KALI MIL)INDING       7%3au                              Pat= Situbondo             106AW!   9    LQ=           :J. lUojen
IB"Uki                                                 5WOUUI    jI1IuuuLoALEM                          Y'008
250                                          zzI   Ai                                                  i                      2woutg
I Pth[SIR                                         zbu'uuq        ZIKASIN                    I      19,%Z           bwlmq
bemami                                        4     3,750,000     2 BESUKI                   =:;M'1F-=               ZF)u'OOcj      3JKLOJi                                           250,0014
24,39U                                                                                    i    4;(jADINCKASRI                     "A
YbUIJKLAN                                                                                                                                                          is M            bw.uuul
13.017                   2. iFans  km                          204901   21       Wluuul       31VAXtNt,                            ill          5MIOU14
39,578                        I bUMMMKOLAK                                                                                1       9,
ULM                          .1       i        4JI          Z501MR
SWUM                                             I,ztu.uuu      2 KILEN ARI                       FN              A                                                12,98
I      SIKAU                                  5          zw'Ouq
T-SRE.Vondo                          27,7711   21      750,Mq
I KREMBANUAN                                        "Aw'000       IFATOKAN                  7      ;s:;gl    i    z           4. 1 tmm                             116-'m    7 1
ouu,uuu      L LtAWUkIAN                                       DMIJUCI        I [JVUIFAN                        17, 37          5w.
t]IINYAMPLUN(iAN               1    ju'311     i    250,000                                                    I                   2 t5UNUL.F.1-JU                   Z4,690          750,
,CBONGKARAN                          14,31U           2501OW  i4i                                  2SX1 1   2 t                  I FULEMAN                          17,160          -AM,
I                                       FLAFUERU                                     ZbuUULI        ."Umwv                     1      16,4
Kt..b                                          I                        BAAN                        AN               *W1uLM          ISLIMBINfj                      12,607     1    xw.
947            Du'uuu                                                                                                         13,9U
A  mbu  Z  I                   13,111           MIT,=   5. -11-yptih                           ',"'I   Li       Awl--V         I r"LWANUI               I      lb,275         -,M,
7,Tni    I    25010oq
4  M;grmpm(.                                                                                                                   5 Lo-k.m
II MKAK BAKA I                                                         -p-B`&---pFiFOmiz-zO                           25011)[11111   1 TANJUNUSbX".
31111311   IL-  250,MR        TA-1-11MULYU                      13,307
ad.                                                                   MtIbfOCtuAWU9G-             -TF3                             jMbi                     i   lu'wli !  9=
I i UALUNIbAKI                                                                                                                     4-bVMb%bKbAKI                                     Ow,wI
2iMANUKAN KI)i                                 1                                                   79,0241  9i   2=                -LOW       AKtJ                  2.065 I        fbo'uut
;M.VUU 1. Lek.k                                "W[   ii         -,--M                                           16,907    1    5wool
IJAIIREJO                         6-16j          zou            I &LIAWAi                  i      II'I            250
26 S.ko- ..&Z.J                   I   62,4031   zi    115001uuu                                                                        3 ILLXUMA.N                      12,58
250,0001
z.bjMVMuLYV                        37              1,250,                                           9903           259,99q  V.16 Kot...dyi PF.51.ggo
61   1.
I                 I1. M.Y-gm                               65,60
ZJIA..,.WO                                       1      MOOD 3 Grui                                    7.5211   1      2              1 JATT                           13,3901         zwl
I'AbtMKVWU                    i    11,2261        - Asi         - r sumBbRuFWASAKI                                  zou'w          4  IJIUNMAYLIV                   11'1jj         W v.
I                                                               I                        3-bu u'w                         11jig]   I    zwl
2m sen-o                          1    9,7.351  T-i---BTM   479ij-,-    - -                                  i   1                    4, MAYANGAN                        8,933.
9, fj'         250,000 --- FrXNOMGNMRLANG                      7.5521         ;iDu.            KANIUARkN                 I     13,81ul         rk.
V.9 Kab.i         Bmy..-Ri        1  393,031 34;   9,750,000    Ge.pol                                2esn I   2                                                         7,678    1 1
29,8441113       7NFow        I                                11,6221                                                                      I
.4*U                                                la
I ZILNUV L tKUNAIN            I     9,022           25T,=        2 GEMPOL                           S-9wI           250,
t    14,1141          250.Gm                                                                    V.17                                  41,163   51   iasojmq
3 LA i .Nu                          7,724[          zou'wu 6. F.Cm                                 7,7151   1       M,                                              16,1551  2       -Welue"
7.7151          ztul      I  Pi!;M      SAIU                     8,4371         'dW'uLM
2- TgAldlim                             7,7501  Tr---B'D-,W                                                                              FUMMN I KI:
r                                   7,7501          Zbu,UM                                         17,6281   2       3m,
WSUl. VALLM                                      250,  2. Gdi.gmj.                               25,0081 31  7-"^M
3. Clunng                         1   32,675   31       75O.We      2 FVIAK                              11 91         250.uuq        I LIAVINUKWU
-T-rANIFU-                       i    10,101                                                                                         2 IKAJtN'j                         S'u,;          25i
2 dLNUULUK                                           ZbU,UUU V.14 Kbp.t- M.Iani                   240,0681  2,    ol                                                  9. 167 T       zwuui
3 CLURINfj                          9.320           zbu,uuu 1. Kepajm                             12"31   1                                                 i
I KEPANJEN                             I          250,
4S.nggo.                                                                                                                        K,ngkasan : PKUPINtit JAWA I IMUM
I SONLi(jUN                                         250.0                                          23.W5 1
M m,                           LLiZV            250,                NIL 11, K-..t-,                  ium
5GI-.Oe                                                              2 LkWANQ                          12-7591         250      YtLUKAMAN                            Peaduduk! Kai.    HanWwq
I SEPANJANci  ---M937-1   25TOW -
zou,uuu j5.w                                  34,472    3
I FASANWIFLARAN                   9.6531          230             bupaten Sidoatfo                         iui  Z.15C.
F'-Zza,..                           12.1491   2t                  2 NQAGLIK                         10.99T           250       v.y. maoupajen mopKerm                          1 1    zbuutjq
zou,miti     3 wbix                           14.822 i         250       V.3 T paten SaMogwo P
21KESI R                            8,7131          250,000                                                                    v       pate  I uDan                 24,2131  3 1    T*u'uLM
I                   4  ,.gosmn                          19                         V.5 Kabupaten Lamongan r              34,042!  31    fw,ULR4
21     5w1w         I kANUL UUU                    10.03           ztu,      V.6 KatTupaten (iresLk                37,4131  4 1  I.QW.OUUj
IJ'134!         ZSU=          2 BANJARARUM                      9. 14J:         ZMJ,      V. 1 KOtamadya 19=                    37,0241  4    1.UOU.UUUj
2 - KESONVALEM                                       2WIODD                                                                   VTKO-taffia-Wa-S                    1,775,0    UZ   4(.---UO.UUUI
5  Pkjsji                            36.062,   2    I           V 9 Kabupaten uwepAvam               3
K.Iib.-                             ILIOI I   Z       MOW                                           I L.947         z5a,      v. I u Kaoupaten aonaamso             26-.MzI
1 KALIBARU MANIS                    8.9771   -      25noo            EBONAGLTNG                    24-2151  --                V. II Kabupaten 5,tubondo            106,55319    2,750,
ZOVIULM                                                                                  Probongg               8,05
9,926 i   I                                                           i  19
6NW,                                                                              iSurUan             1    4
9smpu                                  W.4-W- 3   1,06nm                                                                                    Oten mawq r
7Wr-    ,
I LIENDuti                                                                                                                    V.15KOtamadyaMaIa    r               539 6821
947!         _z5T=   7. S..b., F.w.                                                       TT Kotamadya Pm;Wn-gi               73:255,        1. t5o,
3 I1,fMUUUKUH                       is':144i             MG       FbUMLILK PUCUNCi                 10.996,          4          v. I I Koiamaoya asuruw             41.1631  5:  1.Z
2 K-AFLANCjKATES                  K,9tg          ;ebu.
10  -p-j.                             M 147-2-         -560-100                                                                                I otat              -Yb5T,154124
F-AEA  6LUH                  ------FOrUF-           -25CFOM  . imbuit                               9.724,  1    2
OKFJO                     9,236i                        i Ki                              9.724:          2
I
TT-  lip-0                             23,401   2       750.W   9tio.dangleg.                          17.213;   2    --306
I KALIPURO                         16.7971              '000 --F-GDNU-I,LM    KULON                 U77:            zw.
2                                   rf-giLl         -250'ma                         W t IAN         S.Vjb:
32,108'  1                                                     11.170i   I
--FKEDLTNG                               '6911                       1 TUREN                           11.1for
Z 1"WuNuKhju                       L2,4171          buuluuu
I                   IL, D.                                9.414 i          250-00%
Z5;y-          75W'Ow --F-mIJLYO AGUNG                         9-4W            2
----------------- L-



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD          Page 34
ANNEX 3
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Project Component                                           Local  |   Foreign             Total
-----------------------US $ million-----------------
1. Grants for subprojects                                 86.0              23.4         109.4
2. TA and Services for Management/Implementation           13.5               2.0          15.5
2.1 TA for PMU                                              0.5              0.5            1.0
2.2 TA for oversight consultants                            4.0               0.5           4.5
2.3 Service contracts (kelurahan facilitators; trainers)    9.0               1.0          10.0
3. TA for Monitoring and Evaluation                         1.1               0.4           1.5
4. Increased Government Administration                      3.3              0              3.3
Price and Physical Contingencies 1/                      0                 0             0
Total Project Cost                                        103.9             25.8          129.7
1/ No contingencies included as the project is prograumatic. The major uncertainty is the exchange rate that will
prevail during implementation; if the rupiah rate improves, the credit fnances less.
Note: The standard ANNEX 4 does not apply
ANNEX 5
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Years Ending March 31
(US$ million, current prices)
Implementation Period
2000    2001    2002   2003    Total    %
Project Costs
1. Grants for subprojects     40.0     40.0    23.4      6.0   109.4     84
2. TA for Implementation       5.0      6.0      3.0     1.5    15.5      12
3. TA for Monitoring           0.5      0.5      0.4     0.1     1.5       1
4.Increased Gov't Admin.        1.1      1.1     0.8     0.3     3.3       3
Total                        46.6    47.6    27.6       7.9   129.7    100
Financing Sources                                                         %
IDAI/                    36.5     36.5    21.5     5.5   100.0      77
IBRD                      5.0      6.0     3.0      1.5    15.5     12
GOI                       5.1      5.1     3.1     0.9    14.2      11
Total                    46.6     47.6    27.6      7.9   129.7    100
Main assumptions: 1/ Initial disbursement from the Loan to the Special Account to take place upon loan effectiveness; the
SA and the different fiscal year ending account for differences with yearly loan disbursements on page 1.



Page 35                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
ANNEX 6
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDnITNG ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRID Loans and IDA
Credits" dated January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997. Employment of
consultants and the format for consultant contracts will be based on the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, as revised in September 1997.
Procurement under Grants (subgrants or loans) for subprojects (Table 6A)
There is a ceiling of Rp50 million for a fund to provide small revolving credits to individuals/groups and of
Rp3O million for any proposal by a group. The funds are to cover consultants, services, goods and works, as
needed for preparing and implementing subprojects. The proposal for each subproject approved will be signed by
the Oversight Consultant, the Kelurahan Forum leader and the lurah. It will be attached to an Implementation
Agreement) signed by the members of the subproject group and the PjOK (Project Manager). Individual
procurements will be small and widely dispersed. Procurement procedures thus include national shopping,
procurement of small works, and community participation following best commercial practices. Standard formats
are in Annex 12.
Facilitators. Facilitators or advisors can be hired by the groups that propose or implement subprojects.
The selection can use appointment procedures for individuals or service contracts based on 3 offers. The fees
would be paid from the subproject funding when the proposal or claims are approved.
Goods. Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures.
Quotations must be obtained from at least 3 reputable suppliers on the basis of a detailed description and quantity
of goods, as well as the desired delivery time and place.
Works. Works that can be implemented efficiently with labor intensive methods can be undertaken by
community participation. Other works will be procured under the Bank procurement category of small works
(given the ceiling of the grant); they can be contracted under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from 3 reputable domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotations for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Procurement by the PMU (Table 6.AI)
Consultants. There will be national management consultants for the PMU and oversight consultants for
each province to establish teams at the kabupaten level. Facilitators will also be selected and hired by the oversight
consultants. The PMU in Jakarta will select and hire oversight consultants for 2 years (9 contracts for Phase 1,
larger kelurahans in Northem Java) and technical assistance for monitoring and evaluation. Later, oversight
consultants may be selected and hired by each local govenmment as may be appropriate.



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD       Page 36
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Considering the small amount involved in any one expenditure under grants, and the delays that the prior
review could entail by forwarding to the Bank, the OC will do the prior review, before countersigning. The Bank
will conduct field visits during the project start-up period and carry out prior reviews for contracts that may be
ready, expected to be a small sample of goods valued above $2,000 and works valued above $3,000 equivalent. At
least 3% of the subproject implementation agreements will have contracts reviewed ex-post the first 6 months;
thereafter this percentage will be adjusted based on the Bank's assessment of the effectiveness of the OCs.
Consultant contracts processed by PMU, for national management support, oversight consultants including
facilitators, and monitoring and evaluation, will be reviewed by the Bank prior to approval. The total contract
value, including service contracts, subject to prior review will be $7 million.
Procurement plans
Each proposal/Implementation Agreement includes a section on procurement. This will be reviewed in the
verification of proposals and discussed and agreed prior to the signing. The Bank may participate in some of the
discussions. The process to mobilize oversight consultants and trainers is advanced, to enable their training prior to
loan effectiveness. An advertisement for national management support has been placed in 2 Indonesian
newspapers.
Disbursements
A4llocations of loan proceeds (Table C)
Grants for subprojects: An arrangement will be made by MOF to channel funds through its regional
KPKNs to the preselected BRI outlets. Selection of BRI outlets will be based on their proximity to thekelurahan
and their liquidity. They will be provided with the amount of the grant allocation for eachkelurahan and the
relevant signature specimens to withdraw funds. KF will open a KF Account in the BRI office which will be
funded when at least 5 subproject implementation agreements are approved. The PjOK shall endorse the
documentation from the groups and forward it to the KPKN, that in turn instruct BI to transfer the required amount
to the BRI office Kelurahan Forum account. The initial transfer is 40% of the kelurahan grant; a second transfer of
40% would follow when the account balance is 10%, the OC, KF and PjOK are satisfied with the use of earlier
funds and with the justification of further funding. The final 20% will follow in the same way.
When the subproject implementation agreement is signed, the group may claim payments in accordance
with the terms of the agreement, from the local designated BRI outlet. Payments to the groups may be in cash or
deposited to the group's account. Subsequent claims for payment will be based on progress reports certified by the
consultant, the lurah, the KF, and the PjOK. Upon presentation of the completion report, the final balance is
disbursed to the group.
The BRI office can disburse to the group against approved subproject documentation (agreement or claim
amounts) after verification of signatures. It will have a record of credits and debits byKelurahan, and verify that
the latter do not exceed the former; it will also verify that it does not disburse more than was approved for each
subproject (debits should be identified by date and withdrawer). Records shall be made available tomonitorers and
auditors upon request. BRI may invest partially any balance and keep accrued interest to compensate its operating
costs incurred, but at any time shall have sufficient liquidity to pay claims within the balance amount. Periodically
BRI would provide disbursement statements by kelurahan, kecamatan and kabupaten (may be province) and send a
statement to the Project Secretariat and DG Budget, Ministry of Finance.
Expenses by the PMU: Requests for payment approved by the PMU on contracts entered into by itself or
the levels II on its behalf for the project, would be paid by the SA directly to the consultant or the service provider,



Page 37                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
to their designated bank accounts.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) for subproject grants, services, individual consultant contracts of less than $50,000 equivalent and
consulting firm contracts of less than $100,000 equivalent. Documentation for subproject expenditures will be
retained by the community groups at kelurahan level; as appropriate, by the PjOK at district level and by the
commercial bank. Documentation for other expenditures procured by the PMU (i.e., services, individual consultant
contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent and consulting firm contracts less than US$100,000 equivalent) will be
retained by the PMU. All other disbursements from the loan will require full documentation and they will be
retained by the PMU. All documentation will be made available to the Bank and auditors upon request.
Special Account: GOI will establish a Special Account at Bank Indonesia denominated in US dollars, with
an authorized ceiling of $10,000,000. The Account will be managed by the Directorate General of Budget (DGB),
Ministry of Finance. The initial advance will be $5,000,000 upon credit effectiveness and until withdrawals reach
$20,000,000; the account will be replenished on a monthly basis, or when 20% of the authorized ceiling has been
disbursed, whichever occurs first.
Flow of Funds. The PMU's Pimpro (for PMU expenses) and the PjOKs (for subprojects) will be
responsible for authorizing expenditures in accordance with the agreed budgets under existing government
procedures. They will submit their payment requests to the DG Budget or their respectiveMoF Treasurer (KPKN)
who will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit the payee's accounts at the latter's
respective banks and to debit the project Special Account. The DG Budget will provide KPKN with guidelines and
criteria for eligible project expenditures, in accordance with the Credit Agreement. All the required forms
necessary to submit payment requests and the relevant documentation are standard and are currently applicable to
all foreign-funded projects. KPKN will provide copies of the payment remittance orders (SPM) and other
supporting documents to the DG Budget regularly. Based on these documents and the Bank Indonesia statement of
the SA, DG Budget shall prepare applications for replenishment of the SA.
Disbursements for subprojects will be channeled through the regional KPKNs (both Bank and GOI funds) to
the preselected BRI outlets. The authorized group, presents documentation signed by the OC,PjOK, KF leader and
lurah at the preselected BRI outlet for payments. The initial transfer of 40% of kelurahan grant, when the first 5
agreements approved, will be funded 10% from GOI funds and 30% from the Special Account in Bank Indonesia,
from the World Bank credit. Subsequent transfers, the second 40% and final 20%, will be fully funded from the
Special Account. Funds flow diagram for subproject disbursements is attached.
Payments to the oversight consultants and the national management consultant will be by Jakarta's BI/KPKN,
upon authorization of the Project Secretariat.
Financial Management System
Internal Control System. The project will follow the standard government's financial mechanism which
includes an internal control system--consisting of an institutional framework (project organization), accounting
system, and control procedures. The adequacy of staff to carry out the project and adoption of internal controls by
the agency involved under the project, will be reviewed during project start up.
The PMU will have a Project Manager (Pimpro) and Treasurer from Bappenas, and a small team of consultant
technical staff to carry out procurement and financial related administration. The qualification requirements for
Pimpro and Treasurer are as follows:
Pimpro                                    Treasurer
*  Competent staff of the agency          *  Competent staff of the agency
*  University degree (S1)                 *  Diploma (D2 or D3)
*  Minimum staff level III/c              *  Minimum staff level II/c
*  Attainment of project management course   *  Attainment of treasury course certificate or



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD       Page 38
certificate or equivalent                 equivalent
*  Two years working experience in a      *  One year working experience in
government project                        government project
Financial Statements. The project financial statements showing the financial position of the project during the
fiscal year ended on March 31 will comprise of the following:
(a) Financial Statement of Project Accounts: The PMU will maintain separate accounting records, on cash
basis, for each source of funds, i.e. Annual and Cumulative Project Expenditures and Financing (APEF and
CPEF). The APEF and CPEF will cover the subproject expenditures by district, kecamatan and kelurahan,
as consolidated by the PMU from reports by the BRI, DG Budget, KPKNs, as well as expenses made by
the PMU for consultant services. The community groups shall retain the relevant supporting documents for
subproject expenditures, PjOK and BRI offices shall keep the groups' receipt of funds, and PMU will keep
the documents related to consultants' service expenses. All the documentation shall be made available for
annual audit and random inspection by the Bank.
(b) Financial Statement of Special Account and SOE: The DG Budget, as custodian of the project Special
Account and responsible for disbursing funds from the Bank, will prepare the financial statements of the
Special Account and the SOE (Statements of Expenditures). The financial statements in standard formats
(June 1992) will include the following:
*  Deposits and replenishments to the Special Account received from the Bank
*  Withdrawals from the Special Account, including all SOEs (both from SA and other accounts) used as
the basis for submission of withdrawal applications
*  Remaining balance at the fiscal year end
*  Reconciliation between amount received by SA and amount disbursed by the Bank
Project Financial Management Reporting Requirements. As part of the monitoring system, the PMU will
report to the Bank, progress of financial status on a quarterly basis, no later than one month after the end of quarter.
All financial reports, generated from reports by KPKN and DG Budget will follow the agreed formats
(provided in the PIP), which include the following:
*  Annual and Cumulative Project Expenditures and Financing (APEF and CPEF)
*  Progress Report of Project Expenditures and Financing (PRPEF)
*  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds (SSUF)
*  Contract Expenditures Report (CONREP)
*  Project Expenditures and Financing by District (LOCPEF)
*  Status of Loan Disbursements (STATLN)
Auditing Requirements
The quarterly progress reports would be used as the basis of preparing the financial statement of project
account (namely APEF and CPEF) to be submitted to the BPKP for annual audits. The annual audit reports shall
be fumished to the Bank no later than 9 months after the end of the government fiscal year, i.e., not later than
December 30 each year.
The PMU will prepare the project accounts for audit by BPKP head office that will provide the audit
opinion. Likewise, the BPKP head office will also audit the financial statement of Special Account and Statement
of Expenditure (SOE) prepared by DG Budget. The audits by BPKP auditors would be in accordance with terms of
reference for the audit of project performance, project accounts, Special Account. BPKP will also audit due
process and due diligence by community groups on a sample basis, and the attainment of objectives according to
performance indicators. BPKP will coordinate its sampling with that of audit agencies at levels I and II to avoid
one kelurahan being audited more than once in any year.



Page 39                           Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
Reports and Funds Flow Diagram
.. krBnkBa
Task Manager / LOAAS
BAPPENAS           .     MinistryvofFinance |....           Snkndnesn1     Center
.......... DGB . SA GOI
UPP Secretariat
National Consultant                                       90% '     10%
; | ~~~~~~~~~~~KPKN                      ...........
SPM                             Province
SPP
|    Oversight    |               .                                      Kabupaten
Consultant
[Witato~jj  '.-..  Kelurahan Forums
*  I   \s       L      =      =     =        '       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
,,  |  \   i   PjOK    i             L;   >            ~~~~~Kecamatan
| F      ac     ilitators                                       petrahan Fooumsn Ar   nr 
t[Community 
|Technical  |_ ~               ru 
-  Assistantstanc
nuppifers
etc 
.......................  ...Authorization of disbursement for the kelurahan
===>      Approval prior to PjOK forwarding
-.......... --  -   Informationfteports flow from kelurahan progress (Implementation Agreement or claims)
-->    Assistance
O'   Fund flow



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD             Page 40
Annex 6, Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB    NCB              Other         N.B.F
1. Grants for subprojects                           109.4 (98.5) 1/            109.4 (98.5)
2. GOI Administration                                                  3.3              3.3
Total                  n.a.     n.a.          109.4 (98.5)      3.3    109.4 (98.5)
Note: N.B.F. = Government coverage of its administration expenditures
Other: 1/ procurement by cormnunity members under subproject agreements; these agreements also cover
the hiring of individuals under service contracts to implement the subprojects .
( )    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
Annex 6, Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                             Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                           (including
Expenditure Category                                                                         contingencies)
QCBS    QBS    SFB          LCS       CQ       Other   N.B.F.
A. TA for Implementation    5.5 (5.5)                                                              5.5 (5.5)
(PMU, OCs) l/
B. TA for Monitoring and      1.5 (1.5)                                                             1.5 (1.5)
Evaluation
C. Service contracts 1!                                                      10 (10)                10 (10)
Total  7.0 (7.0)                                      10 (10)               17.0 (17.0)
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Conmnercial Practices, etc.
These facilitators are hired by the PMU/OCs for the start up, prior to individuals hired by comnmunities (Table 6A)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
( ) =Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
/ To be financed by SUDP Ln. 3726-IND.



Page 41                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value       Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)           Method           Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US$ thousand                                 US$ million
1. Grants for subprojects     3        Small works/ community            n.a.
National shopping/comm.
2. TA for                  100         QCBS, Other                  Bappenas $5m
implementation and
monitoring
3. Service contracts        50         Time based                       $2m
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     n.a.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount in         Financing
US$ million       Percentage
1. Grants for Subprojects                                  98.5            90
2. TA and Services for Implementation                       1.5           100
Total                                100



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD      Page 42
ANNEX 7
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$)                        Planned          Actual to 4/15/99
(At final PCD stage)
Preparation, EASUR                             $200,000            $130,000
PHRD grant TF25119                             $750,000            $200,000
B. Project Schedule                            Planned               Actual
(At initial PCD stage)  (to 4/15/99)
Time taken from initial PCD to appraisal  --                        6 months
First Bank mission (identification)               -                12/01/1997
Appraisal start                               09/01/1998           09/28/1998
Negotiations (loan)                           09/10/1998           10/22/1998
Supplementary negotations (for credit)            -                04/09/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 10/30/1998           07/08/1999
Prepared by: World Bank/Bappenas/consultants
Preparation assistance:
Messrs. Pungky Sumadi, Andrew McLemon, Darrundono, Erwin Fahmi, Guritno Soerijodibroto,
Heru Nurasa, Hudi Sartono, Imam Krismanto, Oloan Simatupang, Sutan Jamaluddin and Yando
Zakaria and Mss. Rachmina Nurlily and Wiwiek Sudjono.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Frida Johansen                 Economics/Procurement/Management
Yogana Prasta                            Disbursements
Karin Nordlander                          Legal Counsel
Bridie Champion                           Disbursements
Thomas Walton                             Environment



Page 43                      Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
ANNEX 8
URBAN POVERTY PRJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Urban agriculture reviews, July 1998
Preparation for West Java Environmental project, ongoing
KIP reviews
Rapid assessments, August 1998
C. Other
VIP and KDP documents
Data on poverty
PCD, PID
Decision meeting minutes
PHRD grant agreement
Contracts with project preparation team
Documentation for hiring oversight consultants
(ads, list of respondents, long list, shortlists, terms of reference, LoI, evaluation
criteria, draft contract)
Terms of reference for trainers
Various cost estimate tables
Draft and final Project Manual
Draft material for training of facilitators
Regulation formalizing the Secretariat
Other documents in Indonesian
Negotiated Loan Agreement/Credit Agreement and minutes



0.L
ANNEX 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between             '
expected                  0
Original Amount io US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/>
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 216                                                                                                                                                       >
Active Pro1ects
ID-PE-36049     1999   GOI                               EARLY CHILD DEVELOPM                     21.50        0.00        0.00              20.40       -1.10         0.00
ID-PE-3967      1999   GOI                               FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                     44.70        0.00        0.00              43.66          .30        0.00
ID-PE-40196     1999   GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA           SUMATRA BASIC EDUCA.                    54.50        20,10        0.00              74.60        0.00         0.00
ID-PE-41095     1999   GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA           SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                     47.90       15.90        00OO              63.80        0.00         0.00
ID-PE-56074     1999   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             MUNICIPAL INNOVATION                      5.00        0.00        0.00               5.00         0.00        0.00
ID-PE-63732     1999                                     CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                     31.50        0.00        0.00              31.50        0.00         0.00
ID-PE-36048     1998   GOI                               CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                      6.90        0.00        0.00               6.40          .30         .10
ID-PE-36956     1998   GOI                               SAFE MOTHERHOOD                          42.50        0.00        6.00              34.56         6.55        -.11
ID-PE-37095     1998   GOI                               MALUKU REG. DEV                          16.30        0.00        0.00              15.65          .65        0.00
ID-PE-39644     1998   GOI                               W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.                      103.50        0.00        0.00             100.50       -1.50         0.00
ID-PE-3993      1998   GOI                               N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS                   234.00         0.00       50.00             184.00         6.00        2.50
ID-PE-40061     1998   GOI                               BENGKULU REG DEV                        20.50         0.00        0.00              19.90        1.60         0.00
ID-PE-45337     1998   GOI                               KECAMATAN DEV FUND                     225.00         0,00        0.00             212.13        -.37         0.00
ID-PE-48715     1998                                     IIDP                                    34.50         0.00        8.50              24.64        7.66         8.89
ID-PE-55755     1998   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             BANKING REFORM ASST.                    20.00         0.00        0.00              13.73       13.73         0.00
ID-PE-35544     1997   GOI                               SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS                      20.00         0.00        2.50              17.50        5.50         0.00
ID-PE-36047     1997   GOI                               BALI URBAN INFRAST.                    110.00         0.00       15.00              89.52        2.82         0.00
ID-PE-36053     1997   GOI                               SULAWESI UDP II                        155.00         0.00       42.05              94.44       66.80         6.45
ID-PE-3987      1997                                     C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.                    104.00        0.00        0.00              96.50       28.79         0.00
ID-PE-40195     1997   GOI                               QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED                    71.20         0.00        9.89              53.86        6.05         0.00
ID-PE-4026      1997   GOI/PERUMKA                       RLWY EFFICIENCY                        105.00         0.00        0.00             103.60       32.10         0.00
ID-PE-40521     1997   GOI                               VILLAGE INFRA II                       140.10         0.00        0.00              74.23       47.89        13.17
ID-PE-41894     1997   GOI                               SUMATRA SEC EDUC                        98.00         0.00        0.00              83.29        7.28         0.00
ID-PE-42540     1997                                     IODINE DEF. CONTROL                     2a.50         0.00        2.50              23.19        3.19         0.00
ID-PE-49051     1997                                     BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P                     16.40        0.00         .90              13.05        2.79         0.00
ID-PE-37097     1996   GOI                               E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                         99.00        0.00        0.00              80.23       10.23         0.00
ID-PE-39312     1996   GOI                               SECOND E. JAVA UDP                     142.70         0.00       25.70              94.65      107.65         0.00
ID-PE-39643     1996   GOI                               STD/AIDS                                 24.80        0.00       19.80               1.69       20.10         0.00
ID-PE-3978      1996   GOI                               IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV                     47.00        0.00        6.00              24.13       22.57         6.58
ID-PE-4003      1996   GOI                               SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA                     60.40        0.00       30.00              19.22       31.23         0.00
ID-PE-4004      1996   GOI                               HIGHER EDUC SUP.(III                     65.00        0.00        6.85              33.93       -1.98         0.00
ID-PE-4008      1996   GOI                               NUSA TENGGARA DEV.                      27.00         0.00        4.90              14.18        3.69       -2.15
ID-PE-4011      1996   GOI                               SULAWESI AGRI AREA                      26.80         0.00        3.70              15.61        1.25        -I.75
ID-PE-4014      1996   GOI                               KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                     19.10         0.00        0.00              17.44        6.22         0.00
ID-PE-4016      1996   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             STRATEGIC URB. RDS 1                    86.90         0.00       10.00              63.98       35.58         0.00
ID-PE-4021      1996   GOI                               POW. TRANS & DIST II                   373.00         0.00       80.00             180.43      207.42      -12.60
ID-PE-41896     1996   GOI                               HR CAPACITY BUILDING                    20.00         0.00        3.60              14.83       10.94         0.00
ID-PE-3951      1995   GOI                               KALIMANTAN UDP                         136.00         0.00        0.00              59.22       52.72         0.00
ID-PE-3965      1995   GOI                               HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                    88.00         0.00       20.00              49.08       27.58         5.07
ID-PE-3968      1995                                     BOOK & READING DEV                     132.50         0.00       31.50              76,04       29.79       -6.04
ID-PE-3972      1995   GOI                               AG. RESEARCH II                          63.00        0.00       14.10              36.46       34.06         -.78
ID-PE-39754     1995                                     TA FOR INFRA. II                        28.00         0.00        0.00              23.01       20.22         3.56
ID-PE-3984      1995   GOI                               LAND ADMINISTRATION                     80.00         0.00       16.50              28.12       26.92         0.00
ID-PE-3988      1995   GOI                               PHRD II                                 69.00         0.00        0.00              28.41       10.39         0.00
ID-PE-4001      1995   GOI                               TELECOM SECTOR MODER                   325.00         0.00       50.00            188.66       143.66         0.00
ID-PE-4019      1995   GOI                               ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                      25.00         0.00        3.30              10.17       12.25        0.00
ID-PE-3890      1994   GOI                               SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U                   174.00         0.00       18.67              66.66       63.07        18.45



Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
ID-PE-3910      1994   GOT                               SUMATERA f KALIMAN P                   260,50        0.00        20.00            165.52       156.02       12.23
ID-PE-3937      1994   GOI                               INTEGRATED SWAMPS                       65.00         0.00        0.00              29.20       18.07         0.00
ID-PE-3945      1994   GOI                               HIGHWAY SECTOR II                      350.00         0.00       40.00             124.19      150.18    -185.83
ID-PE-3954      1994   GOI                               JAVA IRR IMP & W R M                   165.70         0.00       22.00              67.81       58.48        0.00
ID-PE-3985      1994   GOI                               WTRSHED CONSERVATION                    56.50         0.00        0.00              41.76       27.80         0.00
ID-PE-3998      1994   GOI                               SURABAYA URBAN                         175.00         0.00       30.00              68.96       81.03       17.21
ID-PE-4010      1994   GOI                               DAM SAFETY                              55.00        0.00         8.00              23.99       23.94        0.00
ID-PE-4017      1994   GOI                               UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR                    58.90        0.00        11.23              18.11       20.46        0.00
ID-PE-4020      1994   GOI                              KABUPATEN ROADS V                       101.50        0.00         0.00              14.80       13.78        0.00
ID-PE-3914      1993   GOI                              THIRD COMM HEALTH &                      93.50        0.00        16.00               6.54       17.02        0.00
ID-PE-3990      1993   GOI                              WTR & SANI FOR LOW I                     80.00        0.00        11.00             26.17        37.19        0.00
ID-PE-3999      1993   GOI                              GROUNDWATER DEVT.                        54.00        0.00        24.94               1.86       19.60         1.80
ID-PE-4006      1993   GOI                              E.INDONESIA KABUPATE                    155.00        0.00         0.00              15.16       15.13        0.00
ID-PE-4007      1993   GOI                               POWER (CIRATA II)                      104.00        0.00        26.00              16.04       41.08       -4.28
ID-PE-4009      1993   GOI                               INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                    32.00         0.00        5.50               4.00        9.49          .59
ID-PE-3860      1992   GOI                               TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE                    87.60         0.00        9.30              11.59       20.11         0.00
ID-PE-3916      1992                                     SURALAYA THERMAL POW                   423.60         0.00      132.20              23.61      150.70         7.98
ID-PE-3969      1992   GOI                               PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH                    36.60         0.00        3.20               2.75        5.95        0.00
ID-PE-3997      1992   GOI                              TELECOM IV                              375.00        0.00        50.08              47.02       97.09        7.01
ID-PE-3977      1991   GOI                              THIRD JABOTABEK URB                      61.00        0.00         6.24               5.45       11.70         1.31
Total                                                                                         6,659.10       36.00       897.65          3,340.33   2,087.41    -100.64
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               2,457.15           17,834.21           20,291.36
of which has been repaid:                  49.18           8,422.38             8,471.56
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,748.23            9,545.62           15,293.85
Amount sold                      :                0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed               :             3,340.33              133.82            3,474.15
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.
0.
3
Pa
a
n
>0



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD                         Page 46
ANNEX 10
Indonesia at a glance
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle-
Indonesia    Pacifc   income       D@wIoprnnt dlbmond
1997
Populaton, mid-year (millions)                      200.1     1.753     2.285                 Uife expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  1,110       970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method. US$ brions)                      222.1     1,707     2818.
Average annual growth, 190147
Population (%)            ..-                                    1.3       1.2
Labor fore(%)            I2Z5                                   1.4        13:   GNplP                            Grass
per                           primary
Mostrecentestimate (Iatmtyeuravailab,1 t 4rl7-   -                                capita                      enrolment
Poverty (SS of populatton bwnatlofnapovwertyne        1 -:I
Urban population (%6;of totalpWdalnk:                 37"        32        42
Life expectancy atbirf, (years)                        s 85      89        89
Infant mortality (per 1000lbiithsJtjN                 47         38        38:
Child malnutrition (% oftdrWrunder5)                  40:        16         .Acess to safe water
Access to safe water(%; ofp ipopaffw, 82                         84        84
Illiteracy(56 ofpopuatWonaget5+)                      1B 17                19
Gross prinmay enrollment (%o so      ptd n       -   114        115       111
Male                                              1.117       118      1:118':     -Lower         e_ om egup
Female                                     -        12        18         13;    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS:- -
i   4   C t :    ;:1976    19680:-    1996         1997M::                  . 
Economic rateos
GOP (US$ bitlions)                         393a   -79.9       227.4    214.8
Gross domestic investmentJGOP               24.1:    2 i       30.8 2o   32.1
Exports of goodsand&seOvicGOP-             24.5   -20.2        25.8      28.1                    Trade
Grss domestic savingstGOP-                  27.1     28.3      30.2      30.9
Gross nationalsavingpsGOP                    ..        ..      25.5
Current account balance/GOP                   -      - .:   -3*5          -12      Domestic                   nesmt
Interest payments/GOP:                       12       3.0       2   1                                         Invest2ent 
Total debtlGOP                              3854B    53.7      58.7      4a        Savings
Total debt servicelexports        ..                    ..     35.5
Presertvalue of debt/GDP                      ,,       ,.      550
Present value of debtlexports      ..    .-    208.8
Indebtedness
197848: 1987U.7     1996      1997   199I 42
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 8.7      7.8      8.r       4.8        ..              1ndonesa                       i
GNP per capita                     4.1      8.1       5.8       3.5        ..         -Lowern4nhomegzp
Exports of goods and serices       -1.7     871       8.3       8.3         .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1988      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDP)                            -1
Aguncultdre                                 29.7     24.3      16.5       16.1
Industry                                   34.1      33.8      43.2      43.9
Manufacturing                             10.4     16.8       25.5      25.6     s
Services                                   38.3      41.9      40.3      40.1
Private consumption                        63.5      6Z8       6Z3       6Z2             92   O3   94  Gs   9s   97
General govemment consumption               9.4    - 11.1       7.6       6.9
Imports of goods and services              21.5      20.5      28.4      29.2
19786S  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of expoata and impartst (%
(average annua/ gmowth)
Agrculture                                  4.1       3.2       3.2       0.6    2T
Industry                                    8.5      10.0      10.5       5.6   20
Manufactunng                              14.5     11.0       11.7       6.2   is
Services                                    8.7       7.9       7.2       5.3 /
Private consumption                        10.0       7.9       7.4       7.5     s
General govemment consumption               9.2       3.9       3.8       0.1     o
Grossdomesticinvestment                     10.8     10.6       11.8      4.2           92   o3   9    9s   9    9t
Imports of goods and services               7.3      11.2       9.8      18.2                  Exs        e  bnpoo
Gross national product                      8.2       7.9       7.5       5.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estmates. I Poverty estimate is from 1990.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country fin bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 47                         Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
ANNEX 11
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
Revised February 15
A: Preparation Schedule
Task                                                           By month/day,
Actual 1998        Foreseen
PHRD Grant
Grant approved in principle                                         3/30
Request of Bank as executing agency                                 7/22
Grant agreement sent to MoF                                         7/29
MoF countersigning agreement                                        8/13
Effectiveness                                                       9/11
Closing date (Normally effectiveness date of the loan)                             6/30
Project preparation team
Selection of individuals                                            7/1
Mobilization                                                        7/6
Contracts signed                                                    7/28
Field trips for rapid assessments                                   7/31
Clarifications on project concept                                   7/31
Office facilities completed                                         8/14
Agreement on project concept                                        10/15
End of contract                                                                    2/28
Urban poverty identification
Define kabupatens to be assisted first year (in principle, north Java)  8/10
Ask levels I (Java) to identify poor urban kecamatans               8/21
Estimate urban population, by province and kabupaten                9/15
Estimate funding to allocate per province/kabupaten                 9/28
Identification of poor kelurahans/size                              9/28
Circulars and dissemination of information
Draft 5 page description of program (English)                       8/7
Draft I page circular for RWs (English)                             8/7
Final version, circular Indonesian                                  10/30          2/28
Brochure, English and Indonesian  (Annex 2)                                        3/8
Local language versions (by province at the most (?))
Text for initial presentation at kecamatan/kelurahan                               2/28
Request quotations for printing circular                            8/17           2/25
Request quotations for printing brochure                            10/5           3/9
Print 3000 brochures, 6000 (?) circulars                                           3/14
Distribute circulars, brochures to Bappedas, agencies (at training)                3/15-4/2
Post in Internet, indicating program starting dates by location                    4/1
Budgets
Prepare project items cost estimates                                10/15
Bappenas to prepare budget request                                  11/16
MoF budget approval                                                 12/7 ?
MoF to prefinance advances OC. NMC                                                 4/2 and 19
Information to KPKNs                                                               5/17



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD             Page 48
Actual         Foreseen
Funds available from credit                                                           5/28 (earliest)
MoF to recover advance                                                               6/15 ?
Project Manual
Draft Manual (in Indonesian)                                          9/30
eligibility criteria to access funds
facilitator availability
disbursement flows/procedures
agreement formats for fund recipients
reporting formats by facilitators, oversight consultants, PMD
bookkeeping, for groups and Kelurahan
Final Manual agreed                                                                  2/19
Copies to MoHA (10)                                                                  2/20
Printing (200 copies)                                                                 3/1
Printing 2200 copies                                                                 3/22
Channeling bank(s)
Select, agree with, the bank(s) and MoF                               10/23          2/2
Send letter to BRI with procedures                                                   3/12
The bank(s) to prepare instructions to branches in selected kecamatans               4/19
Inform relevant branches                                                              5/17
Receive initial advance based on implementation agreements                            6/15
Coordination with MoHA, etc.
Inform TkII of the program and their role                             8/22
Select PjOK                                                                           12/15
Training arrangements                                                 12/1
Training manual for government staff                                                  3/8
Training in W- C -E Java (100 persons each location)                  3/15-19; 22-26; 3/29-4/2
Oversight consultants recruitment
Identify provincial newspapers                                        8/7
Prepare ad for provincial newspapers (Java's 5 provinces)             8/10
Publish ad for expressions of interest                                8/11
Receive expressions of interest                                       9/15
Prepare 9 short list of firms                                         9/30
Invite bids by fax                                                    10/2
Estimate numbers of consultants needed                                10/5
Prepare TORs, LOI and evaluation criteria, standard draft contract    10/5
Request nol                                                           10/7
Distribute concept note, circular, TORS, etc.                         10/12
Hold bid explanation meeting with firms                               10/19-22
Receive bids                                                          11/9 - 16
Evaluate bids                                                                         2/15
Bank's nol                                                                            2/18
Notify winners                                                                        2/19 - 26
Discuss price                                                                         2/23 - 3/5
Draft contracts (9)                                                                   3/1 - 8
Bank's nol                                                                            3/12
Sign 9 contracts                                                                      3/15-16
Bank's nol for disbursement (subject to Board approval of project)                    3/30
MoF prefmance mobilization advance                                                    4/2
Mobilization of OC for training                                                       4/15



Page 49                         Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
Actual         Foreseen
Training for oversight consultants and officials
Asking for expressions of interest of trainers                        10/15
TORs                                                                  10/20
Obtaining proposals from 5 providers                                  10/27          2/20
Contracts with trainers                                                              2/22
Advance to trainers                                                                  2/24
Preparation of draft training materials by trainers                                  3/8
Exercises in understanding the Manual                                                3/8
How to train facilitators                                                            3/15
Select training venues                                                1/30
Training of trainers                                                                 3/22-31
Train consultants, (officials), facilitators in provincial workshops, program aspects
West Java and Jakarta (5 teams)                                               4/9
East Java (5 teams)
Central Java and Yogyakarta (5 teams)
Other (?)
Training of facilitators in bookkeeping, etc.
WJ                                                                            4/16
EJ
CJ
Facilitators and consultants to be available in Kelurahan
WJ                                                                            4/19 -5/3
EJ
CJ
Management consultants
Advertise for expressions of interest                                 10/6
Prepare TORs, LOI and evaluation criteria                             10/10
Prepare draft contract                                                               2/20
Receive expressions of interest                                       10/30
Short list of firms and nol                                                          2/20
Invite bids                                                                           2/21
Hold explanation meeting                                                              2/25
Receive bids                                                                          3/22
Evaluate bids                                                                         3/26
Bank's nol                                                                            3/31
Notify winner                                                                         12/11
Negotiate contract                                                                    4/2
Bank nol                                                                              4/9
Final contract                                                                        4/12
Bank nol                                                                             4/14
Advance by MoF                                                                       4/19
Mobilization of consultants                                                           5/1
Prepare data base format for the project                                               5/30
Bank processing steps
Project Concept Document issued                                       6/15
PCD review meeting                                                    6/30
Drafting appraisal report                                             8/7
Draft Loan Agreement                                                  8/7
Review by task team                                                   8/12
Issue package                                                         8/14
Decision meeting                                                      8/31
Clearance for appraisal and negotiations                              9/16
Appraisal start                                                       9/28



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD             Page 50
Actual         Foreseen
Appraisal completion memo                                            10/2
Invitation to negotiate/status of negotiations                       10/7
Negotiations start                                                   10/22
Preparation of negotiations completion memo                          10/26
Revised PID                                                          10/27
Request for IDA                                                      12/21
Credit agreement draft                                                              2/10
Board approval of IDA for Indonesia                                                 3/9
Approval of GOI of negotiated "credit" documents                                    3/10
Board presentation                                                                  3/23 or 4/1
Signing of Credit Agreement                                          4/2 (Wash) or 4/12 (Jakarta)
Credit effectiveness                                                                5/2 (earliest)



Urban Poverty Piroject Schedule 1908  20011                                            '    4>              -7 -A.                                                  -'-       A    4.
.... .. . . .."'iPrearav                EstaWlhmat Stage by        Eclao nStage I anh tg 2 and            vaeato at Stag. Iand 2and      CeatdtoeDvennetd                  C.KRMAS dMfr                         ESpAJIM UVt
4iAAi..   ~~~~~~~~    Stage ~~~~~NMC, 0C                                   Prprtnta  tg                        L..anatiatStgeSeale Stages                                                  S .g              Eansoad rjn    npen   ei
cruit       Pmqu~alif an shr xs 'rCs           i~         Reri 0   n                ndFnttti 
4t         t  -    I  dtlr,5  CII                                                                                                                                              __   _  _   _                         _  _   _  _
recoit     regnaifyan  ahdCst for  Stage    1
contrct with OCt tor Stag  1IM... .....
Cnotrac with OCs ta Stage 2
Preparaton Team     RevlFclttrPeider              -
recmit     --       Nepotiatioe and direct Appointment
TrainingNPoviders i) Bank's NOL
Contasts with Training providers
prepareSion afterait  aeawftentt en  togatics
Training providers   Wtrtshnp tar Training ProvidersL.2.u.
pirepareF.aciitat.ors  Compiling Trainieg Modules.
and Gev. Stagf si    Recrit and train FacilitatornhApparot by TP                                             -- - ---
PrOetStrIt up Vodkstropo.
Recruit and Itrai reanngtciatryOCs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
Prepartban Team     P    aitetva  M
:i-recui NMC 01     Bidding and evatloitn
Banks NOL
NMC.s Contrast
P-M))_ecuit MOCb(sj  Recrit
Contact with IVEC(s)
tlompementiton      StyeI-atrKlc70  pop.(1300 Kelarah.n)                _h-
in S stages        IStage 2- Pantura c7itit(1540)--------
taga 3- South Java (1450)                 ,
Ty    ain    ---                            by O
Astivifies in       Secialisehat ionneuohe   y0
Kelurahssim         Drsse~minahon by Fsaciitators
Formation ot KSM, BKM, etc
Pen eeagnMatedi Pelatrhan oleh KMW
Recrit, soclatse and train -last belch teaiti(tator                                                                                                eovn   ui 
Complille KSM & BKM prupoes                                                                                                                  flili
Imt,lemevlatiav ot KSMI_SKM actisities                                               mp                                                             pn          q     q
_________      Prepare Govnvmmet StaRf
Prepare O&M arrngements                                              1____H                                                                            h        t
-Supervision 51f implementaitl                                               ..on....mu                             r           
Form Urban Forum at Thil (kec. in Jakarta)..L-                                             ~.s                                                                      
Evaluatin I Reporing Adjustment       __                                            o                                                                 _> -1o  oj
Completion ot     JCrdiat impn        et0nwidC                 tr-
PM)) INMC's         Develop and impl ement  I
main astiiti.s 4)    FormraLEtaluLhne pest
Adjusten  I1poetdesign tar next SIege
P~repamLbnin and laanh of project nest Stago
Catatan                                                 i                            -
_______________                       51 Lihat ladwal_tnitnc_U ~natnKagiatan Fasiltater Prvirder   _



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD              Page 52
ANNEX 12
Format
UPP SUBPROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT No..............
IN KABUPATEN                           KECAMATAN                             KELURAHAN
SPAPB No.:                      /                  /199
Date:
Location:
A.     We the undersigned:
I.     PjOK*:                   Name:          ................................................
Title:         .....................................
Agency/address: ................................................
2.  Representative of   Name .
subproject group**:     Title:.
Address: 
* authorized to act on behalf of the Government of Dati II
by assignment letter dated ................. ,  No.
** Lurah in the case of infrastructure subprojects
B.     Both parties agree:
i.     Subproject definition. The beneficiary group will undertake the activities as described in the attached
proposal # .            that is an integral part of this agreement. All group members are collectively
responsible. General conditions of the agreement, overleaf
2.      Cost and financing
total cost:                             Rp.
financing:     self financing: cash    Rp.
in kind: Rp.
from kelurahan grant, Rp.
advance from grant:   Rp . ..............................  upon agreement signing
interim payment:       Rp .......................   upon approval of progress reports
final payment:         Rp .(20%, upon subproject completion)
expected completion date ..........................
Grant financing to be available from KF BRI account:
Address:        .........................................................
Account No.:    .........................................................
(5 copies of agreement, I copy with Rp. 2,000 duty stamp for KPKN)
Signed by group members overleaf
Group representative           PjOK



Page 53                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
C.     General Conditions of the Agreement
Duties of the Kelurahan Forum leader/ Lurah
I.     The Kelurahan Forum and/or Lurah shall ensure a) the group members are eligible, b) that the subproject has been
selected in accordance with the program criteria; c) that the OC has countersigned the proposal; d) that cumulative
approved subproject funding does not exceed the kelurahan grant.
Duties of the Cormnunity Group
1.    Implement the activities in accordance with the proposals, and the envirommental and resettlement guidelines, as
necessary, attached to the agreement. Provide own funds in the amounts and timing as indicated in the proposal.
2.     Project Reporting: the KF agrees to provide a 2 page progress report every month to the PjOK, and allow other
government, World Bank and other representatives to access records and visit the sites. A short completion report
will be prepared.
3.     If an activity is not carried out after funds are received,
3.a.   If due to Force Majeure, that is an event which obstructs or damages work outside the control of the group, such
an event must be reported to the oversight consultant within 7 days, and a decision taken within 14 days.
3.b.   If a trigger benchmark indicates that it is better to drop the activity, such a decision must be reported to the
oversight consultant within 7 days and a decision taken within 14 days.
3.c.   If due to negligence, the oversight consultant shall review and deternine the course of action; the advance may
have to be reimbursed by the group immediately as to be determiined.
3.d.   In all cases, the second (final) disbursement will be revised.
4.     Audits: the KF/groups have to allow audits as decided by BPKP; if audits indicate that funds were misused (i.e.,
for other purposes than intended), then the group has to reimburse the amount, or failing this. For the purpose of
the audit, the KF/groups will keep Statements of expenditures related to the project for 3 years after its completion
or decision to abandon.
Duties of the oversight consultant at the kecamatan/kabupaten
1.   The consultant shall a) verify subproject proposal and assist with preparation; b) supervise implementation;
c) certify payment documentation.
2.   Differences of opinion that may occur between the group/ KF and the Facilitator should be brought inimediately for
discussion with the oversight consultant, who should settle such differences based on factual evidence and the
Agreement. If they entail costs justified in the opinion of the consultant due to changes of original specifications,
then an Agreement addendum has to be prepared.
3.   Release of any advance requires prior compliance with any land acquisition and a satisfactory environmental plan if
any is required for the subproject. Any required UKL/UPL would be given public disclosure and a conununity
consultation will be sought, and noted. Progress payments also depend on implementation of the environmental plan,
if any.



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD                    Page 54
UPP SUBPROJECT PROPOSAL NO.
Group members
Name                      Address                                               Signature
1.
2.
3.
4.
5. 
6.
7.
8.
9. .....................................................................................



Page 55                         Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
UPP SUBPROJECT PROPOSAL NO.
FOR ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES BY THE COMMUNITY
OR
FOR SMALL WORKS/SUPPLIES BY THE COMMUNITY
IN KABUPATEN                         KECAMATAN                             KELURAHAN-
Date:
Details on the following are summarized on following pages:
1. Subproject Description:
2. Implementation arrangements:
3. Procurement plan:
4. Land acquisition:
5. Environment impact:
6. Cost, by item and fimding source 1/:
7. Schedule for implementation and funding:
8. Repayment schedule and amounts:
9. Benchmarks, cancellation triggers:
10. Group members:
11. Treasurer of group/bookkeeper:
12. Location of subproject and group address:
13. Small Public Works: Additional General Conditions of Agreement apply.
1/ Including
Group technical assistant fees as to be agreed, if any; profit sharing terms would be indicated, if any.
2% Kelurahan Forum administration fee
Conformed by:
Oversight Consultant          Kelurahan Forum Leader        Lurah



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD           Page 56
ADDITIONAL GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR SMALL WORKS
C. I. Duties of the Group or KF for works
a) Implement the works in accordance with the specifications approved by the oversigh consultant.
b) Provide local management (team leader, foreman, administration) and pay at appropriate cost based on the
agreement.
C.2. The works shall not be contracted without approval from the oversight consultant.
C.3. Non-compliance
The group/KF shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with general clauses or does not obey the warnings of
the Facilitator/Consultant. The oversight consultant shall give written notice to the grouplKF of any non-compliance
and send copy to the management consultant and to the PjOK.
If within 15 days of receiving a warning the group/KF leader takes no corrective action, then the Facilitator may
propose a KF meeting to review the matter.
C.4. Sanctions
In relation to negligence, payments to the group/KF shall be postponed until the cause of negligence is corrected and
accepted by the consultant in accordance with the Agreement.
C.5. Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the consultant in accordance with the
Agreement or addendum if any.
C.6. Reporting by the group/KF
a) Weekly personnel records
b) Weekly equipment records
c) Weekly progress of works
d) Monthly cumulative progress



Page 57                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
Documentation for Procurement to be used in Kelurahans
(for contract values between Rp. 10 million and Rp. 100 million)
FOR SMALL WORKS/SUPPLIES BY CONTRACTORS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Invitation to Bid and Instructions to Bidders ..............................1
General Conditions of Contract .............................2
Sample Form of Quotation ...3..........................3
Sample Form of Contract/Work Order .............................4
General Specifications ..............................5
(to be developed per nature of works)
1. INVITATION TO BID
1. I  Works:
1.2 Kabupaten/Kecamatan/Kelurahan:
Date                 No.
1.3 Appointment Procedure
Activity           Location        Date      Hour          Remark
1.3.1  Collect Bid Document   KF                                   Free of Charge
1.3.2  Explain Documents      idem                                 Site Visit
1.3.3  Submit Bid             idem                                 Duty Stamps
Rp.2000
1.3.4  Evaluate/Negotiate     idem
1.3.5  Appoint contractor     idem                                 Duty Stamps
1.3.6  Sign Contract          idem                                 Rp.2000
2.  INSTRUCTION TO BIDDERS
2.0  The contractor will be selected after review of 3 quotations from different sources for local shopping
and 1 quotation for direct contracting, contract values cannot exceed Rp.10 million for direct
contracting and Rp. 50,000,000 for local shopping.
2.1  Quotation Form attached.
2.2  Contract Form attached.
2.3  Attachment to the Quotation Form: Schedule of Activities and Prices
2.4  Contract Period: Up to 6 months from the date of signing of Contract.
2.5  Type of Contract: Unit Price or Lump Sum, without escalation.
2.6  Payment for Achievement (output):
Semi-Monthly: After certification for works completed in 2 week period; the last payment, after
issuing a Certificate of Hand-over.



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD           Page 58
3. GENERAL CONDITIONS OF IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT WITH CONTRACTORS/SUPPLIERS
3.1.  Duties of the contract/owner/oversight consultant
a) Supervise implementation of works.
b) Arrange payment documents for work performed.
d) Accept completed works.
3.2.  Duties of the Supplier
a) Implement the works in accordance with the specifications and technical guidelines provided by the oversight
consultant.
b) Provide materials, equipment and personnel; unskilled personnel will be selected from kelurahan residents to the
extent they are interested.
3.3.  The works shall not be contracted without approval from the oversight consultant.
3.4.  The Supplier must obey existing rules and regulations, and respect local customs.
3.5.  Force Majeure is an event outside the control of the KF which obstructs or damages the work. Such an event must
be reported to the Facilitator within 7 days. The oversight consultant may agree to costs resulting therefrom, and
prepare an agreement addendum if needed.
3.6.  Differences of opinion that may occur between the Supplier and the group should be brought for discussion with the
Facilitator immediately. Settlement of such differences shall be decided by the consultant based on factual evidence
and the Agreement. If they entail costs justified in the opinion of the consultant due to changes of original
specifications, then a contract addendum has to be prepared.
3.7.  Non-compliance by the Supplier
The Supplier shall be judged negligent if it does not comply with clauses 3.2. or 3.4. or does not obey the warnings
of the Contract Owner or Facilitator. The KF or consultant shall give written notice to the Supplier of any non-
compliance.
3.8.  Sanctions
a) In relation to negligence of the Supplier under clause 3.7., payments to the Supplier shall be postponed until the
cause of negligence is corrected and accepted by the KF or Facilitator in accordance with the Contract.
b) If within 7 days of receiving a warning under clause 3.7. the Supplier takes no corrective action, the KF may
terminate the contract and appoint a third party to carry it out.
3.9.  Payment for the works shall be based on the amount of works certified by the KF/consultant in accordance with the
contract or addendum if any,
3.10. Reporting by the Supplier
a) Weekly personnel records.
b) Weekly equipment record.
c) Weekly progress of works.
d) Monthly cumulative progress.
Attachment I -Bid Form
Attachment 2 - Agreement Form



Page 59                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
QUOTATION for INVITATION #.........
To:   The Project Manager (PjOK) of the Urban Poverty Project
1.    Having examined the Quotation Documents, comprising the Invitation to Bid, the Instruction to
Bidders, the General Conditions and Technical Guidelines in the Project Manual, related to the
following works:
Description
of
Works
I/We the undersigned offer to implement the whole of the said works in conformity with the aforesaid
documents for the sum of:
Rp1
(in words)
As detailed in the Attachment to the Quotation showing schedule of Activities and
2.    I/We undertake to commence the works on the date of signing the Contract and to complete and to
hand-over the works comprised in the contract within the period stated in the bid document.
3.    This Quotation is valid for one month from its date.
Date:
Supplier Name:  _
Address:
Supplier Signature



Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project PAD             Page 60
UPP CONTRACT AGREEMENT
for
WORK/SUPPLIES by CONTRACTORS
KF:
Address:
SPABP No.:                                          Date:
Implementation Agreement No.:                       Date:
IN KABUPATEN                          KECAMATAN                            KELURAHAN
No.:                            /                /199
Date:
Location:
A. We, the undersigned:
1. NAME:
TITLE:       Project Manager of the Works-KF
ADDRESS:  J1.
hereinafter referred to as the FIRST PARTY.
Authorized to act on behalf of the Government Dati II Kabupaten as Employer, by assignment letter dated:
No.:
2. NAME:                                      (Supplier)
TITLE:                                     (Director)
ADDRESS: 31.
hereinafter referred to as the SECOND PARTY.
B. Both parties agree to enter into Contract as the result of tendering::
a. Type of Works:
b. Location:
c. Description:
d. Value of Agreement:  Rp.                                                 in words)
e. Execution-period:                      calendar days from the date of signing the agreement, without
warranty period.
f.  Payment:            Up to 20% advance to be netted out of payments of the first 2 months. Payments every 2
weeks proportional to physical progress as stated in bills certified by the consultant and
the fmnal hand-over.
h. Condition for
Execution:           As stated in the attached General Conditions of Agreement
i.  Miscellaneous:       - 5 copies of agreement, I copy with Rp. 2,000 duty stamp for KPKN.
- Copy of contract shall be sent to PjOK.
SECOND PARTY                         FIRST PARTY                          Acknowledged by
Supplier                            KF/group                             Consultant
( __      _    _)                   ( __       _    _)                         (__  )



Page 61                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project:PAD
ANNEX 13
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT GUIDELINES
Introduction
GOI regulations relevant to land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, that would guide the
agencies for this project as they do for others, are:
a)  Keppres 55/1993 pertaining to land provision for development for public interest;
b)  Implementing Regulation for Keppres 55/1993, #1/1994 of the Min.of Agri./Nat'l Land Agency (BPN);
c)  Regulation 4/1991 of the Min.of Land/head of BPN regarding land consolidation;
d)  Letter 410-4245/1991 of the Min. of Land /head of BPN, and
e)  Circular 410-1078/1996 of the Min.of Agriculture/head of BPN on technical guidelines for land
consolidation.
In general, where a proposal entails land or asset acquisition, the project agency/group shall ensure that
any persons affected negatively by the proposed subproject are compensated such that their incomes and assets
are restored or improved under the subproject.
Basic principles
The basic principles for the project are:
i) proposals should avoid or minimize land and asset acquisition as well as involuntary resettlement. They
should have explored viable alternative designs to minimize displacement.
ii) under approved proposals, any negatively affected person, under any tenure category, should be given fair
compensation determined through consultation and agreement between the affected party and the project
group.
iii) the affected person should be able to choose the type of compensation, in the form of cash or in kind; the
level should be based on current market prices or updated NJOP (tax base) values for their property, for
cash compensations, and should provide land and housing at least equal to the replaced ones, when
compensation is in kind.
iv) proposals that would affect 200 persons or more require a full LARAP (land acquisition and resettlement
action plan). (Such subprojects would normally entail long lead times, and are expected to be beyond the
scope of the project.)
v) there shall be no land acquisition under the project through land consolidation procedures.
Procedures
i) proposals have to indicate the need for land acquisition, the estimated size and number of persons affected,
and the estimated budget required for compensation. Such identification can be conducted in parallel with
the AMDAL (see environmental guidelines).
ii) proposals approved in principle by the consultant that require land acquisition, shall be complemented as
necessary with a LARAP (Land acquisition and resettlement action plan) and indication of the budget
source for the required compensation (proceeds of the kelurahan grant cannot be used for compensation),
carry the approval by the relevant kabupaten agency head. The consultant shall seek the Bank's approval of
the LARAP and budget, and seek modifications in case the Bank finds they are needed.
iii) any LARAP or compensation shall be completed satisfactorily prior to the start of any construction work.
The implementing group will report progress regularly to the PMU, that in turn will inform the Bank.
Sanctions
If it is found that the guidelines were not complied with, then funding for the subproject will be
cancelled and the Kelurahan will not be eligible for any other financing under the project.



Page 62                     Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project: PAD
ANNEX 14
URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
Introduction
The proposed project has been classified-as a Bank environmental category B, as any negative impacts are
expected to be minor. Any physical works under the project are expected to be small, and their impact, positive on
the municipalities.
GOI regulations relevant to environmental management, that would guide the agencies for this project as
they do for others, are:
i)  Government Regulation Number 51 of 1993 Regarding Environmental Impact Assessment;
ii) KEP-39/MENLHJ8/1996 Concerning the Types of Businesses or Activities Required to prepare an Environmental
Impact Assessment (ANDAL);
iii) KEPMEN PU-481/KPTS/1996 Concerning Decisions on the Types of Activities in the Field of Public Works that are
Required to Prepare UPL and UKL;
iv) KEP-12/MENLHI3/1994 Concerning General Guidelines for Environmental Management and Monitoring Procedures;
v) KEPMEN PU No. 296/KPTS/1996 Technical Guidelines on the Preparation of UKL and UPL for Projects in the Field
of Public Works;
vi) KEP-14/MENLH/3/1994 Concerning General Guidelines for the Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments;
vii) KEPMEN PU No. 58/KPTS/1995 Concerning Establishment of Guidelines for the Management of AMDAL in the
Department of Public Works.
The Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (O.D.4.01), which in general is in line with
GOI's AMDAL process for public projects, shall also be followed by the agencies where a proposal entails any
negative environmental impact, to ensure that it is mitigated or avoided satisfactorily. No new environmental
management procedures are proposed. The Bank also requires public disclosure of environmental reports (BP 17.50,
Disclosure of Operational Information).
Basic principles
The basic environmental principles are:
i) proposals should avoid or minimize negative environmental impacts. They should have explored viable
alternative designs to minimize the impact;
ii) the proposal should fit into the General Spatial Plan (RUTR), and avoid protected areas so designated by the
Ministry of the Environment (attachment 1 to this annex) unless the proposal improved a protected area;
iii) proposals entailing a negative environmental impact, shall be complemented by an environmental plan to
mitigate the impact.
Procedures
Tnere are three key stages (studies for the proposal, design and implementation), all three involving public
consultation. The procedures at each stage are summarized below (a checklist for the agency is in attachment 2):
In an initial screening, the project type, scale, location, and sensitivity, and the nature and magnitude of
potential impacts, will be identified to classify the proposal in one of 4 categories:
i) those that require environmental management and monitoring plans (UKL and UPL)based on limited but site
specific studies. The Ministry of Public Works has set criteria to determine the need for UKL/UPL, and the



Page 63                        Indonesia: Urban Poverty Project; PAD
Ministry of the Environment has set criteria for ANDAL. Both sets are combined in attachment 2 to this
annex;
ii) those for which standard operating procedures (SOP) suffice, where generic good practice would protect the
environment adequately. DG Cipta Karya and DG Bina Marga have SOP guidelines for some types of
projectsl;
iii) those that require no environmental study, where no construction, disturbance of land or water or discharge
of pollutants are involved;
iv) those that require a full environmental assessment (ANDAL) plus environmental management plan (RKL),
unless the ANDAL and the RKL were the innovations (due to the small financing for the proposals, none is
expected to be in this category for implementation).
In the design stage:
i) the fit with urban planning and the environmental study, if these are needed, should be approved by the
Bappeda and Bapedalda prior to submission to the PMU;
ii) the environmental management should be incorporated into the designs, tender documents and contracts;
iii) standard field inspection, operating guidelines and management and monitoring for municipality staff (or
private sector operators) should be clear;
iv) the institutional arrangements for implementation and funding sources should be indicated in the proposal.
Implementation would proceed after the proposal is approved by the PMU and the Bank,
Public participation
For projects for which ANDALs must be prepared, GOI's regulations require public disclosure of
information about the project and opportunities for public comments before a final decision is taken. There are no
provisions for public participation in UKL/UPL preparation. The Bank requires public disclosure also of UKL/lUPLs,
and encourages participation of NGOs and affected communities in all project planning. Municipalities are advised
to provide a mechanism to receive and respond to complaints from the public for any subproject that may cause
environmental or social impacts.
Attachment 1
List of Protected Areas
The Decree of the Minister of State for the Environment of the Republic of Indonesia Number KEP-
39/MENLH/8/1996 Concerning the Types of Businesses or Activities Required to Complete an Environmental
Impact Assessment prescribes that any business or activity that is located in a protected area or that may change the
purpose and/or designation of a protected area shall be required to prepare an ANDAL. It includes:
i)   forest protection areas:                     i)  river edges;
ii)   marine/freshwater conservation areas;       ii)  nature tourism parks;
iii)  peat areas;                                 iii)  areas surrounding lakes and reservoirs;
iv)  coastal mangrove areas;                      iv)  cultural reserves;
v)   water catchment areas;                       v)   areas surrounding springs;
vi)  national parks;                              vi)  scientific research areas;
vii)  coastal edges;                              vii) nature conservation areas;
viii) forest parks;                               viii) areas susceptible to natural hazards.
Such as measures to control dust, noise and traffic at construction sites, specifications for backfilling and revegetating
disturbed areas to prevent erosion; procedures to control negative impacts at solid waste transfer stations; etc.



Indonesia: U,oan PLovroy Proj,ct PAD            Page 64
Subprojezt Sle enlig Criteria
Sectors au Pdrojects         Units       ANDAL                  UKL/UPL
Wrat r  S ugp ly                __  __  _   __ _  __  _   _________::________________
Raw water intake                 s         500            500 - 100
Transmission (large towns)      km          5             5 - 2
Distribution (large towns)      ha          1500          1500 - 250
.Urban  roads                      :_   _   .______:___   __L_::__ _                 _   _
New construction:
a. Large towns                  km; or ha  5              5 - 1; or 5 - 2
b. Medium towns                 km          10            10 - 3
c. Small towns (villages)       km         25             25 - 5
widening (large towns)          km; or ha  5              5 - 1; or 5 - 2 (if land acquisition)
Bridges in large towns          m           -             2 20
Bridges in small towns          m          -              2 60
Wastewater & sanitiidon                   I
IPLT                            ha          10            10-5
Sewerage system                 ha         500            500 - 100
IPAL                            ha          10            10 - 5
-Solid Waste Management                    I               ________________________
Sanitary landfill (TPA)         m3d         1000          1000 - 200
TPA (in tidal area)             m3/d        700           700 - 150
Transfer station                m3/d        2000          2000 - 500
Drainage & flood control       ____i_:_
a. In large towns               km; or ha  5              5 - 1; or 5 - 2
b. In medium towns              km          10            10 - 3
c. In small towns (villages)    km         25             25 - 5
Kapung Improvement                 =E___i_________________
New development                 ha          200           200 - 25
Upgrading                       ha          5             5-2
Sources:   KEP-39/ME4NLHI8/1996 for ANDAL
KEPMEN PU-48 1/KPTS/1 996 for UKL/UPL
Attachment 2
Environmental Checklist for Appraisal
i)  Has the subproject been properly screened in accordance with criteria in Attachment 2?
ii) Has the appropriate environmental study been prepared and approved by the environmental agency concerned?
iii) Are any environment-related licenses or permnits required (e.g. H.O.?) and, if so, have they been issued?
iv) Does the study include an adequate description of the subproject, with maps and drawings as appropriate?
v) Does the study describe the aspects of the environment that could be adversely affected by the subproject and identify all of
the likely impacts?
vi) Do the management and monitoring plans (UKL/UPL) contain specific, clearly defined actions to respond to all potential
adverse impacts of the subproject?
vii) Is the implementing agency identified for each action in the UKL and UPL, and are the funding source and budgetary
commitmnent clear?
viii) Has the municipality accepted the recommendations in the environmental study and agreed to implement them?
ix) Do plans, contracts and tender documents contain the appropriate elements of the UKL/UPL or SOP?
x) Were adequate opportunities provided for the public participation in subproject planning and cormment on the study?



MAP SECTION



PACiFiC OCEAN                          ~~INDONESIA-JAWA
LAY S~hA_.~  a                                    URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
KABUPATENSK(JAWMABARAT)      KBPTN(JWTEGPROJECT KABUPATENS
I  S I A    0                            ~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT KABUPATENS    PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS
INDIAN OCEAN                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
A~~~  US RALIA                                 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES
1050          0010018
SUMA R
1~~~~~~~~~DKI                                              1090gon         110ieon10iacp1.Suoai   G} e  1110cta  112.     113dwos   21140o
3. Boqor   13. Sumedang   3. Purbalingga  13. Karanganyar    23. Temanrqgung  3. Trenggalek  13. Probolinggo  hundaee, lere desenietioe andany ihe. Tubaana
4. Sukabumi   4  Indramayu   4. Baniarnegara    14. Sragen   24 Kenda   4. Tulungogung    14. Posuruan   24. Lamongaennhh espdnoln,pIn e thepar of he orldBan
5. Cianjur   15 Subonq   5. Kebumen  15. Grobogan  25 Batung        5. Blitar         15. Sidoario       25. Gresik~~~~Ga a. ny ed~entn se ega sttesof nyesiery oran
70 Garut                                                                                                                              er.! Karawang  7.2Wonosobo  ,7. Rembong   27. Pemalong   ;Z. Malong   17. Jombo   27 Sampang
KABU PATE NS
(D.I. YOGYAKARTA)
1. Kulon Progo                                  1                        OYKRA3                                                              ''oBL
2 Bantul
3 Gunung Kidul10018                                         0'101101213010
4 Sleman
KABUPATENS (JAWA BARAT)                        KABUPATENS (JAWA TENGAH)                                  KABUPATENS (JAWA TIMUR)
1 .Pandeglang       1 1. Cirebon          1. Cilacap       I11. Sukoharjo      21. Demak          1. Pacitan        11. Bondowoso      21. Ngawi
2. Lebak            12. Maialenka         2. Banyumas       12. Wonogiri       22 Semarang        2. Ponorogo       12. Situbondo      22. Bajonegoro
3. Bogor            13. Sumedang          3. PurBalingga    13. Karanganyar    23. Temanbgung     3. Trenmbalek     13. Probolinggo    93. Tuban
.                                         4uni    eran   4. Baniarnegara    1. Sra  24Kenda       A. Tulungagung    14. Pasuruan       2A. Lamongan
Suk iabnlumi       14 Indrm              5. Kebumen        15. Grobogan       25. Batang         5. Blitar         15. Sidoario       25. Gresik
5.Canung              wuanprt           6. Purworeo       16. Blora          26 Pekalongan      6Keii1.Mokro                         26. Bangkalan
~ Ban~~~g  16. Purwa Karta7. Wonosobo            i 17 Rembang       27. Pemalang        7. Malang        17. Jombang        27. Sampang
7. Garut            I /. Karawang         8  aeag           IaPf 
8. Tasikmalaya                                                                  , eai  .Mglag1 Pt  , Tegal  8. Lumajang  18. Nganj'uk  23  aeaa
9. Ciamis           19. Tangerang         9. Boyolali       19. Kudus          29 Brebes          9. Jember         19. Madiun         29. Sumenep
~~ 10. Kuningan  20 Serang        1 0. Klaten       20 Jepara                            10. Banyuwangi   20. Magetan          30 Kodya Surabaya   to
0o
10                                                                                                                                                               c



