Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3210 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Poverty Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 28, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3210 IND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of  
Part A of  the  Project, has or would have his or her: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; 
(b)
“BAPPEDA Tk. II” means the Kabupaten and Kotamadya Development Planning 
Agency established and operating within a Kabupaten and a Kotamadya, respectively; 
(c)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and includes any successor thereto; 
(d)
“Bupati” means the head of a Kabupaten; 
(e)
“Camat” means the head of a Kecamatan; 
(f)
“Coordinating Team” means the Team, established at the Kabupaten and 
Kotamadya level, chaired by BAPPEDA Tk. II and including representatives from DINAS 
Agriculture, Manpower, Social Affairs, Public Works and Rural Development;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 and 
ending March 31; 
(h)
“Grant” means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and out of its own funds to a Grantee or Grantees for a Sub-project under 
Part A.1 of the Project; 
(i)
“Grantee” and “Grantees” means a person and persons, respectively, 
responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project; 
(j)
“Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement” means the guidelines 
prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Association, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and in the Project Manual, and as such Guidelines may be amended from time 
to time in agreement with the Association; 
(k)
“Kabupaten” and “Kotamadya” mean a district, an administrative division 
of the Borrower; 
(l)
“Kecamatan” means an administrative sub-district of a Kabupaten and a 
Kotamadya; 
Page  3
(m)
“Kelurahan” and “Desa” mean an urban section of a Kecamatan;
(n)
“Kelurahan-borrower” and “Kelurahan-borrowers” means a person and 
persons, respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part 
A.2 of the Project; 
(o)
"Kelurahan Forum" means a group of Kelurahan or Desa representatives 
registered by notary and endorsed by the Walikota or the Bupati, respectively, to 
guide the selection of Sub-projects; 
(p)
“Loan” means a loan made to a Kelurahan-borrower or Kelurahan-borrowers 
for a Sub-project under Part A.2 of the Project out of funds made available by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit and out of its own funds;  
(q)
“Lurah” means the head of a Kelurahan; 
(r)
“PJOK” means a Project manager at the Kecamatan level; 
(s)
“Project Kelurahan” means a Kelurahan in the urban areas of the 
Borrower’s provinces of East Java, Central Java, West Java, DKI Jakarta and D.I. 
Yogyakarta, participating in the Project; 
(t)
“Project Manual” means the Project Manual dated April 16, 1999, to assist 
Project Kelurahans, Kelurahan Forums and Kelurahan-borrowers in the implementation of 
Sub-projects through the description of, among others, procurement procedures and 
standard documentation, reporting requirements, the Project Performance Indicators, 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, environmental criteria applicable to 
Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under the 
Sub-project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Project Manual may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(u)
“Rupiah” or “Rp” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(v)
“Secretariat” means the Project Management Unit established and operating 
within BAPPENAS pursuant to Ministerial Decree (Kepmen) No. KEP 330-K-11/1998 dated 
November 26, 1998, comprising representatives of, inter alia, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Finance, Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Public Works;  
(w)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(x)
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure investment project or a 
specific income-generating investment project carried out under Part A.1 or Part A.2 
of the Project, respectively, and utilizing the proceeds of a Grant or a Loan;
(y)
“Sub-project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into among the relevant (i) Grantee or Grantees, Kelurahan Forum, Project oversight 
staff and PJOK for purposes of implementing the activities under a Sub-project under 
Part A.1 of the Project; and (ii) Kelurahan-borrower or Kelurahan-borrowers, Kelurahan 
Forum, Project oversight staff and PJOK for purposes of implementing the activities 
under a Sub-project under Part A.2 of the Project; and 
(z)
“Walikota” means the head of a Kotamadya.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent  to seventy  three million  five hundred  thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 73,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
Page  4
account of a Grant or a Loan made under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of  the  June 30  immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates  \0cas may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2009, and ending December 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2018, shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
Page  5
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
environmental, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Page  7
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants and Loans
   72,500,000
90% 
(2)
Consultants'
    1,000,000
100%
services under
Part B of the Project
    _________
TOTAL
   73,500,000
   ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 7,300,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1999; and  
(b)
in respect of Category (1) unless a Sub-project Implementation Agreement 
Page  8
has been entered into in accordance with paragraph 4 (e) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the  basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for (i) Grants and Loans;  
and (ii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving basic 
infrastructure in its low-income urban areas, and (ii) promoting sustainable income 
generation for its poor urban residents.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Infrastructure and Income-Generating Activities 
1.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment Sub-projects in Kelurahans, through 
the provision of Grants to Grantees. 
2.
Carrying out of income-generating investment Sub-projects in Kelurahans, through 
the provision of Loans to Kelurahan-borrowers.
Part B:
Project Implementation and Monitoring 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the Secretariat and of the Borrower’s agencies 
implementing the Project, in Project supervision, training, targeting, and monitoring 
through the provision of consultants’ services. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of Project Kelurahans in the planning and 
implementation of Sub-projects through the provision of consultants’ services. 
3.
Monitoring the impact of the Project on poverty in the Project Kelurahans, 
including provision of consultants’ services. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997, and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.9 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
Page  9
1.
National Shopping 
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below,  works shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Association Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants' services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Page  10
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by facilitators under Part A of the Project may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall cause the Coordinating Team to select, and the relevant 
Bupati and Walikotamadya to appoint, and, thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project, a PJOK in each  Kecamatan that encompasses a Project Kelurahan, with adequate 
qualifications and experience, for purposes of the Project, by not later than 
September 15, 1999.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that the relevant Camat and Lurah shall: 
(a)
issue to the Project Kelurahans, by not later than October 15, 1999, 
public information aimed at disclosing to Kelurahan residents and their 
representatives, all administrative, financial, environmental, procedural and 
technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation 
of Sub-projects; and  
(b)
make such information, including the Project Manual, freely available for 
consultation at the Kecamatan and Kelurahan office.
Page  11
3.
The Borrower shall select Sub-projects in Project Kelurahans in accordance with 
the following criteria: 
(a)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.1 of the Project shall be a public 
infrastructure investment project which is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of people benefiting 
from it; 
(b)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.2 of the Project shall be an 
income-generating investment project which is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified; 
(c)
the estimated cost of a proposed Sub-project shall be not more than 
Rp.30,000,000;
(d)
the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount 
of Grants and Loans approved in the relevant Project Kelurahan does not exceed in the 
aggregate: 
(i)
Rp. 100,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with less than 7,500 
inhabitants; 
(ii)
Rp. 250,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 7,500 or more 
inhabitants but less 
than 15,000 inhabitants; 
(iii)
Rp. 500,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 15,000 or more 
inhabitants but less 
than 22,500 inhabitants;  
(iv)
Rp. 750,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 22,500 or more 
inhabitants but less 
than 30,000; and 
(v)
Rp. 1,250,000,000 in Project Kelurahans with 30,000 or more 
inhabitants; and 
(e)
no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (ii) include civil works for government administration or 
religious purposes, (iii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous products, arms or harmful or illegal drugs; or (iv) include the financing of 
government salaries.
4.
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall, through the relevant 
PJOK, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the Project 
oversight staff shall have completed a technical review of such Sub-project and shall 
have confirmed the following: 
(a)
the criteria described in paragraph 3 of this Schedule have been complied 
with; 
(b)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Grant or a Loan and any voluntary contributions to be made by 
Kelurahan residents; 
(c)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land, avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons, and avoid or minimize any negative environmental impact, have been considered 
in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the Project Manual;
(d)
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 8 of this Schedule;
(e)
a Sub-project Implementation Agreement has been entered into and an 
implementation plan for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Manual; and 
(f)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Page  12
Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Association 
and has been included in the Sub-project Implementation Agreement, which shall include 
assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the respective Kelurahan, the 
preparation of training programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the 
Kelurahan, and the identification of available sources of financing to carry out such 
programs.
5.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a)
Loans are made on terms and conditions agreed with the Association and 
set forth in the Project Manual; and 
(b)
a revolving fund is established and maintained by the respective 
Kelurahan Forum in the Project Kelurahans, in accordance with procedures agreed with 
the Association and set forth in the Project Manual, for repayment of Loans and 
further on-lending of the repaid funds.
6.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
ensure that the respective Grantees and Kelurahan-borrowers carry out the 
Sub-projects selected pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule in accordance with the 
Project Manual and the respective Sub-project Implementation Agreements; 
(b)
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made 
available to the Kelurahan facilitators and the Project oversight staff and applied in 
the carrying out of Sub-projects; and 
(c)
periodically update the Project Manual, as needed.
7.
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a)
each Sub-project is reviewed by the Project oversight staff upon 
completion and that a certificate of Sub-project completion is issued by the Project 
oversight staff upon a finding of satisfactory Sub-project completion in accordance 
with the Project Manual and the approved designs; and 
(b)
if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, 
except for cases of force majeure, the respective Kelurahan Forum shall recover the 
amounts disbursed under the respective Grant or Loan in accordance with community 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
8.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
residents of Kelurahans and to avoid the displacement of said residents; 
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of residents 
is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the respective Kelurahan 
Forum shall, before the carrying out of the works which would result in such 
acquisition or displacement, make available to such residents, compensation in 
accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more residents are adversely affected by 
a Sub-project: 
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation 
and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Association 
for approval; and 
(ii)   prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons 
shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
9.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
Page  13
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
cause the Secretariat to prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) reports on the implementation of 
Part A of the Project covering the preceding calendar quarter, not later than April 
30, July 31 and October 31 in each year, starting October 31, 1999, and until the 
completion of the Project; and (ii) annual reports, not later than January 31 in each 
year, commencing January 31, 2000, and until completion of the Project, on the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project during the preceding year ended December 31; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31 in each year, commencing January 
31, 2000, and until completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by March 1 in each year, commencing March 1, 
2000, or such later date as the Association shall request, and until completion of the 
Project, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Performance Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PPI, TABLE IS TOO BIG)
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
Page  14
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
Page  15
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
