                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 31461-IND




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (IDA-32100)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.5 MILLION (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                      FOR AN

                               URBAN POVERTY PROJECT




                                    June 28, 2005




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                                            Rp. 1 = US$ 0.000108
                                            US$ 1 = 9,300

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BAPPENAS    National Development Planning Board
BPD         Badan Perwakilan Desa (Village Representative Body) ­ can also mean Bank Pembangunan
            Daerah (Provincial Development Bank)
BKM         Badan Keswadayaan Masyarakat (Community Self-Reliance Body), a new community-based
            organization established through democratic election of volunteer members
BRI         Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDD         Community Driven Development
CBO         Community-based organization
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DGHS        Directorate General of Housing and Settlements
EA          Executing Agency
Faskel      Kelurahan facilitator
GOI         Government of Indonesia
Kabupaten   Regency (local government)
Kampung     Urban neighborhood
KDP         Kecamatan Development Project (Cr. 3535-IND)
Kecamatan   Sub-district under a Kota or Kabupaten
Kelurahan   Urban local sub district under a Kecamatan in a Kota, comprising on average 10
            neighborhoods
Kimpraswil  Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure
KIP         Kampung Improvement Program
Kota        Municipality (local government)
KSM         Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat (Community Self-Help Group), a group formed to submit a
            sub-project proposal to the responsible BKM
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
MoF         Ministry of Finance
MTR         Mid Term Review
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
NMC         National Management Consultant
OC          Oversight Consultant
PAPG        Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PjOK        Sub-district Project Administrative Manager
PMU         Project Management Unit
PSR         Project Status Report

SUDP    Surabaya Urban Development Project (Ln. 3726-IND)
UPK     Unit Pengelolaan Keuangan (Financial Management Unit within BKM)
UPP     Urban Poverty Project (Second UPP, Cr. 3658-IND and Ln. 4664-IND; Proposed Third UPP)
VIP     Village Infrastructure Projects (VIP, Ln. 3888-IND, and VIP2, Ln. 4100-IND)



                             Vice President:       Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                          Country Director:        Mr. Andrew Steer, EACIF
                            Sector Director:       Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                        Task Team Leader:          Mr. George Soraya, EASUR

                                         INDONESIA
                               URBAN POVERTY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Future of UPP                                                           29

Project ID: P055821                                                  Project Name: URBAN POVERTY PROJECT
Team Leader: George Soraya                                           TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: URBAN POVERTY PROJECT                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-32100
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (30%); Other social services (18%);
                            Sub-national government administration (18%); General industry
                            and trade sector (17%); Housing construction (17%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (S); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/30/1998                                     Effective:                           06/21/1999
     Appraisal: 09/15/1998                                         MTR:                             04/09/2001
      Approval: 05/18/1999                                       Closing: 06/30/2002                06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Indonesia/BAPPENAS; Ministry of Settlements and Regional
                                           Development
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Mr. Andrew D. Steer                            Mr. Mark Baird
Sector Director:                Mr. Keshav Varma                               Mr. Keshav Varma
Team Leader at ICR:             Mr. George Soraya                              Ms. Frida Johansen
ICR Primary Author:             Mr. Gottfried Roelcke


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Urban Poverty Project (UPP) was designed in response to the 1997 Asian Economic Crisis that
triggered a rapid rise in urban poverty. In the wake of the crisis, the Soeharto administration collapsed in
May 1998, and the debate on corruption in the public sector and public demand for comprehensive reforms
intensified. In this crisis situation, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) faced a challenge of innovating a
mechanism to rapidly distribute financial resources to the urban poor, but with increased transparency, and
sought the Bank's assistance. The Bank quickly prepared UPP drawing on experience with the ongoing and
successful Village Infrastructure Projects (VIP1 - Ln. 3888; VIP2 - Ln. 4100-IND).

UPP's development objective was: "Through a bottom-up and transparent approach, the project seeks to
improve basic infrastructure in poor urban neighborhoods and to promote sustainable income
generation for its poor urban residents who are mostly long-term poor, have incomes eroded by high
inflation, or lost sources of income in the economic downturn. Also, the project seeks to strengthen the
capability of local agencies to assist poor communities."

Assessment of Objectives
The objectives were clear, realistic and responded to the needs of the country at the time. The Bank's 1997
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) did not foresee a crisis, so the project was initially designed as a crisis
intervention. However, UPP figures prominently in the CAS Update of February 16, 1999 which shows
UPP supporting two main CAS objectives of reinforcing social safety nets and strengthening institutions
(public and environmental and social institutions) to support sustainable growth. Since then, UPP has
continued to be a central feature of the CAS, most recently identified as supporting the main platform for
encouraging growth and poverty alleviation.

The project was prepared in an unstable national political, economic and social environment. This, and the
rapid decentralization process that followed soon after project launch, posed significant risks to project
implementation. Nevertheless, the design of the project was robust enough to allow modifications and
adjustments to minimize such risks during implementation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.

3.3 Original Components:
The project targeted about 2,800 kelurahans (wards) in the five provinces of northern Java which were the
most seriously affected by the economic crisis. These kelurahans covered about 7.8 million households or
31.2 million people. The selected kelurahans were chosen according to their incidence of poverty, with the
poorest given first priority. The project comprised the following four components.

Grants for Sub-projects (US$109.4 million). This consisted of grants for activities to benefit the poor in
the participating kelurahans. Activities included: (a) physical investments for building or upgrading local
infrastructure; and (b) capital to establish revolving funds for income-generation activities. Sub-project
proposals for community investments were to be prepared by neighborhood self-help groups known as
Kelompok Swadaya Masyarakat (KSMs), some of which existed before the project, but most of which
formed during implementation. Financial investments and activities for income generation were
"open-menu" except for a negative list consisting of arms, harmful drugs, land acquisition, government or
religious buildings, and bank deposits to earn interest. In order to increase transparency and accelerate
disbursements, the central government agreed--for the first time--to transfer funds directly to community



                                                      - 2 -

level organizations known as Badan Keswadayan Masarayat (BKMs). Funds were transferred in the form
of block grants, which in turn were allocated to the KSMs on the basis of their sub-project proposals.
Grant allocations varied according to the size of kelurahan, ranging from Rp.100 million ($10,753) for
kelurahans of less than 7,500 residents, to Rp.1,250 million ($13,440) for kelurahans of more than 30,000
residents. The minimum allocation per sub-project was Rp.5 million ($540) and the maximum was Rp.30
million ($3,225).

TA and Services for Management and Implementation (US$15.5 million). This financed consultancy
services to support project implementation, namely: (a) National Management Consultants (NMC) to assist
the Project Management Unit (PMU) in the central government; (b) Oversight Consultants (OC) teams to
support implementation in the provinces; and (c) kelurahan facilitators (known as faskels) to work directly
with each kelurahan's BKM and KSMs.

TA for Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.5 million) included financing for impact monitoring and
surveys, technical studies, case studies and financial oversight (audits).

Increased Government Administration (US$3.3 million) financed incremental operating costs for project
administration.

Assessment of Components
The components were relevant to achieving the objectives, and their design was clear and logical. Lessons
learned from earlier projects such as GOI's Kampung Improvement Programs (KIP) and the two VIPs were
incorporated into the design. For example, UPP's block grants were designed with open menus to eliminate
the issue of sectoral limitations imposed by previous projects. This was important because the community
needs identified by the targeted kelurahans differed greatly. Further, the arrangements for financing KSM
sub-projects supported a more demand-responsive and bottom-up approach to investments than seen under
previous operations. For example, the direct transfer of funds to the BKMs significantly reduced
bottlenecks caused by bureaucratic inefficiencies.

At appraisal, the project was expected to improve the purchasing power for necessities by putting workers
back to work through economic activities and labor in infrastructure investments. The following
assumptions were made and incorporated in the initial project design: (a) the faster the revolving funds
proceeded, the higher the project returns would be, so shorter cycles and smaller credits were encouraged;
(b) while credits were envisaged for economic activities, grant funds were envisaged mainly for
infrastructure investments, given the externalities involved in public infrastructure and environmental
improvements; (c) increased targeting of the poor would increase program overheads and lower the share of
funds benefiting the poor, so self-enforcing mechanisms and incentives were built into the project; and (d)
paying facilitators partly linked to outputs, rather than to inputs, would improve their effectiveness, so a
2% rule was instituted where the responsible facilitator would receive a commission of 2% of the total
amount of the proposal. These assumptions proved to be relevant except the 2% commission rule, which
was abolished in Phase 2 of implementation (see Sections 3.5 and 4.1).

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were never formally revised, but several important amendments were made to the
Operational Manual after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in April 2001 (see Section 4.1).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory as discussed below. QAG did not review quality at entry.




                                                      - 3 -

Consistency with CAS objectives and GOI priorities. The strength of the project is reflected in its
consistency with the CAS update of February 1999 and GOI's priorities to distribute funds quickly to the
urban poor using transparent means. GOI's noteworthy commitment to alleviating urban poverty is seen in
its acceptance of UPP's innovative design and mechanisms for rapid and transparent transfer of funds to the
poor.

Consistency with Bank safeguard policies. UPP complied fully with Bank safeguard policies. The
project was rightly designated a category "B" environmental operation due to the small nature of its works.
The "negative list" ensured that sub-project proposals would not finance arms, harmful drugs, and land
acquisition, per the Bank's policy to "do no harm". With regard to involuntary resettlement, the project had
the necessary frameworks agreed upon with GOI. The nature of the community planning and
programming, combined with small investment sizes, minimized the need for land acquisition.

Quality of design and reasonableness of assumptions. Some deficiencies inherent in the project's
objectives and component design required substantial adjustments and improvements during
implementation. For example, the project did not explicitly address the inherent conflict between the
objective to support and empower the poor with the requirement of operating revolving funds in a manner
that guaranteed sustainability through high repayment rates. In Phase 2, the idea of a "social fund" to
assist the poorest was introduced. Also, the design did not propose an "exit strategy" for the 2,800
revolving funds created by the project or their impact on or integration into the micro-credit market. An
exit strategy was therefore developed during implementation. The project also assumed that local
facilitators would need an incentive to help communities to prepare proposals, so the facilitators were
initially provided a 2% commission for each approved proposal. The poor perceived the facilitators as
being motivated purely by the commission, and BKMs doubted their true commitment to support them.
The abolition of the commission in Phase resulted surprisingly in the generations of over 5,000 volunteers
(non-paid) who were then trained to work as local facilitators (compared to less than 4,000 facilitators on
commission in Phase 1) and 16,000 other volunteers working in the BKMs. As the project's flexible design
enabled a learning-by-doing approach, the necessary design adjustments were made.

Readiness for implementation. The implementation manuals were complete by appraisal and the process
of selecting consultants for implementation was well advanced by the time of Board presentation. The
project was designed such that communities would be mobilized and KSMs and BKMs would be formed
after the consultants and facilitators were hired (after Credit effectiveness), and kelurahan grants could
only begin disbursements after the community mobilization/socialization process was complete. However,
there was significant pressure to show quick disbursement on the kelurahan grants after Credit
effectiveness. This led to the curtailment of the mobilization and socialization process in some kelurahans,
with some negative impacts on the public perception of the project's objectives. This was changed in Phase
2, with a longer and more structured awareness-raising process and explicit removal of the disbursement
pressure.

Risk assessment. The risks regarding improper targeting and "elite capture" of the BKMs were valid, but
the risk mitigation measures of training and follow-up identified at appraisal were inadequate. Various
modifications were made during the MTR, including changing the process of forming BKMs in the
Operational Manual to minimize elite capture. All other risks were valid, in particular the availability of
sufficient capable facilitators.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of the project's development objective is rated satisfactory, as it achieved or surpassed
all quantitative targets set at appraisal. The project's most significant achievements, however, were not
foreseen at appraisal. These achievements include the large scale development of community level
organizations (BKMs), dedicated to poverty alleviation, that are owned and trusted by the communities,
and, based on the success and popularity of these BKMs, the development of a national level urban poverty
alleviation program. The successful implementation of Phase 1 of UPP led to a request from GOI to
expand UPP to other provinces, leading to the approval of UPP2 in June 2002 and the approval of UPP3 in
May 2005.

Project coverage. The project covered 2,621 kelurahans, or 94% of the appraisal target of 2,800
kelurahans, in five provinces of northern Java. Direct and indirect beneficiaries numbered over 15.7
million people (3.9 million households), compared to the appraisal target of 12 million people. The project
transferred US$95 million to communities, compared to a target of US$94 million. Sixty-six percent of
total project beneficiaries were to be poor (defined as households earning less than Rp. 250,000 per month
and other factors). In Phase 1, about 55% of beneficiaries were considered poor (according to the final
report of Phase 1), while for Phase 2, about 80% of the recipients were poor (according to an impact study
of 60 randomly selected kelurahans). Some 12,000 facilitators were mobilized (compared to a target of
6,900 facilitators and consultants at appraisal), of whom 9,271 volunteers from participating communities
were trained and who remain in their kelurahans to strengthen the communities' institutional capacity. The
project was able to actively involve women through various processes. About 38% of the beneficiaries
(KSM members) were women, 37% participated in the election process, and on average about 20% of the
BKM members were women. Therefore, the project's coverage largely met or surpassed expectations, with
specific poverty targeting having considerably improved over time.

Improvement of basic infrastructure in urban poor neighborhoods. Over 18,000 infrastructure
sub-projects, amounting to US$17.2 million, were implemented during the project, with 30% implemented
in Phase 1 and the balance in Phase 2. Participatory Community Development Plans, introduced during
Phase 2 (see below), contributed to better defining and prioritizing community needs. The percentage of
community contributions (in kind and in free labor) to the total investment costs was surprisingly high at
38% in Phase 1, and increased further to 48% in Phase 2. No significant contributions were required
originally, so this high level of community contribution clearly indicates community ownership of the
sub-projects financed. Phase 1 investments focused on tertiary infrastructure (roads, drainage, water
supply and public toilets). Phase 2 investments were broadened to include minor health units, education
facilities, and street-lighting. The average cost for infrastructure investments was about 30% below
government-managed and supply-driven construction of a similar scale. Generally, the infrastructure built
is located in or near poor settlements and addresses problems faced by the poor, particularly sanitary
facilities such as communal toilets, or access space to allow petty traders to move their stalls and wares
more easily. The UPP in-depth studies (University of Gajahmada: UPP Qualitative Impact Study, and
UPP Impact Study in 60 Randomly Selected BKMs, 2004) confirm that the infrastructure investments have
contributed to better services at the kelurahan level.




                                                       - 5 -

Promotion of sustainable income generation. About US$62.4 million financed micro-credit activities for
some 940,000 households in the form of revolving funds managed by the BKMs. Based on the 2004
impact study, Phase 1 revolving funds revolved on average at least two cycles per kelurahan. For Phase 2,
the full cycle of repayment will be completed in October 2005. The performance of Phase 2 microcredit
has thus far been superior to Phase 1. About 80% of the total micro-credit funds was used for augmenting
working capital to expand economic activities, mainly in petty trading (cooked food, fruits and vegetables
stalls in neighborhoods) and small scale service industries (tire repair, electronics repair, shoes,
handicrafts). The average repayment rate of the revolving fund was estimated to be about 56% in Phase 1
kelurahans. This low figure can be partially attributed to a lack of consistency among the 1,298 Phase 1
kelurahans about how to measure repayment rates and reporting was sporadic. Repayment rates improved
considerably to 90% in Phase 2 kelurahans (instructions for measuring repayment rates were standardized,
accountants better trained and the reporting system improved under Phase 2). A sample survey in August
2002, where 1,779 members from income-generating KSMs from 61 randomly selected BKMs were
interviewed, showed that all had repaid their loans. The survey further revealed that, as a result of the
BKM loan to the KSM, 85.3% of respondents stated that their business assets had increased, 87% stated
that profits from their enterprises had increased, 50.6% recorded increased savings, and 44.9 % saw
increased household assets indicating greater purchasing power.

A challenge that faced the micro-credit schemes was their ability to reach the poorest of the poor. The Mid
Term Review (MTR) revealed that a certain degree of conflict existed between the two objectives of
reaching the poorest of the poor and having well performing micro-credit schemes. By definition, the
poorest of the poor are the most vulnerable and the most likely to need credit for basic necessities than
investing in a micro-business. Often, they are also the ones with the least business skills, and are therefore
perceived as the least likely to repay loans. Most BKMs preferred to play it safe and accord most credit
funds to existing micro-businesses, rather than extending riskier loans for training or for helping the very
poor start new businesses. The community self-survey and planning processes introduced in Phase 2
attempted to create a better, shared understanding of poverty within each community and of the role of
BKMs to empower the poor. In Phase 2, a social fund (grants for the most needy) was developed. The
in-depth qualitative study carried out by the University of Gajahmadah (March 2005) confirmed that the
program did reach and benefit the poorest, but requires refinement to make it more sustainable.

Strengthening the capability of local agencies to assist poor communities. The project assisted in
developing 2,621 community organizations (BKMs) dedicated to poverty alleviation in as many kelurahan.
These BKMs have in turn formed associations (BKM Forum) at the sub-district, district and city levels to
address poverty and to mutually support implementation of their activities. The BKMs and BKM Forum
are supported by the relevant local governments. Of the 58 participating local governments, 53 have so far
signed Memoranda of Understanding to continue collaborating with and maintaining their BKMs. Thirty
local governments have allocated their own resources (in addition to project funds) to the BKMs to
implement additional poverty alleviation measures. Ten local governments have confirmed their
commitment to develop BKMs in additional kelurahans under their jurisdictions using own funds. These
steps demonstrate the project's strong impact on how local governments engage with communities to tackle
urban poverty. The Central Government, in turn, allocated Rp. 10 billion in 2005 from its domestic funds
to ensure that facilitators continue to support the existing BKMs. Further, UPP2 and UPP3 will continue
to provide additional support to the existing BKMs through various programs.




                                                      - 6 -

Phase 2 Innovations. Phase 1 introduced the idea of community participation in the planning and
implementation of poverty reduction schemes. In Phase 2, new measures were incorporated with the
following objectives:

(a)    to increase "real" participation by communities and to structure the participatory planning process
       better (through a massive awareness raising effort, Community Self Surveys, and a participatory
       planning process to develop poverty-oriented Community Development Plans which would guide the
       use of funds);
(b)    to ensure committed and honest BKM leadership so that people could trust the BKM and to increase
       accountability (by having a democratic non-candidacy election method where community members
       identify and rank the values they wanted in BKM leaders (mostly honesty and commitment to helping
       the poor), then identify and choose individuals who reflected these qualities by secret ballot);
(c)    to increase sustainability by getting as many people in the community involved as possible by
       promoting volunteerism (through "critical awareness" training programs for facilitators and
       withdrawal of the 2% commission for community volunteers; reducing the number of paid facilitators
       from one per kelurahan to four for every 10 kelurahan, thus allowing the emergence of community
       volunteers who actually dwell in the kelurahans); and
(d)    to engage local governments more directly in project implementation without compromising the
       important benefits gained by having BKMs be independent of government structures (by only
       working with local governments that have agreed to the principles of UPP; by involving local
       government officials from the start with awareness raising activities, rather than only for
       disbursement of funds, etc.).

These measures led to a complete change, not only in the community's perception of the project, but more
importantly in the way all levels of government view urban poverty alleviation and the means to achieve it.
In the country's continuing social and political transition, the participatory methods introduced by UPP
have been revolutionary, and have been embraced by communities and the government alike. Both
central and local governments see the BKM as a potential interlocutor for on-the-ground implementation of
various poverty programs. Plans are already underway to expand UPP as a national program for poverty
alleviation, going far beyond the original objective of UPP (see Annex 8). There is, however, a clear
understanding that the UPP concept is still evolving, and that there is still a lot to be learned and improved
upon in the future.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Grants for Sub-projects. The appraisal estimated that by closing (originally June 2002), 18,000
sub-projects proposals would be implemented. By June 2004, more than 194,900 proposals had been
submitted, and 92% of them (or about 970% of the original target figure) were implemented. This
extraordinarily higher number of proposals indicates that the appraisal underestimated the project's delivery
capacity, the size of the proposals, and that the revolving fund would continue to finance proposals well
after the block grants were provided. The main outputs are summarized below and in Annex 1.




                                                      - 7 -

                       Table: Summary of Outputs on Infrastructure and Economic Activities

 a. Physical Outputs                                    Phase 1          Phase 2       Total
  # m of roads, paths, bridges                          1,347,448 (*)    1,867,645     3,215,093
  # m of drainage, irrigation                           279,461 (*)      948,812       1,228,273
  # unit water supply                                   165 (*)          3,435         3,600
  # unit public toilet                                  433 (*)          3,023         3,456
  # unit solid waste                                    2266 (*)         8,170         10,436
  # unit housing, office, security                      n.a              5,863
  # unit health                                         n.a              56
  # unit street lighting                                n.a              5,235
  # unit education facilities                           n.a              154
  # unit trade facilities                               n.a              103
  # others                                              n.a              varies


 b. Economic Activities                                 Phase 1          Phase 2       Total
 Sub-loan proposals approved
  - Number                                              78,521           78,107        156,628
  - UPP funding (Rp. Billion)                           406.9            154.5         561.4
  - UPP funding (US$ million)                           46.2             17.6          63.8
(*) = Estimate based on sample survey of 63 kelurahan (March 2002). Because of the diverse nature
of the type of works, the units above refer to numbers of sub-projects funded, except for roads and drainage.


TA and Services for Management and Implementation. This component financed the National
Management Consultants (NMC), 22 teams of Oversight Consultants (OCs) that operated at the regional
level, 2,261 kelurahan project facilitators, and the training of 9,271 non-paid community volunteers. TA
for capacity building was intensified in Phase 2 as demonstrated by the numbers of meetings held in project
kelurahans: in Phase 1, over 7,000 meetings took place in 1,298 kelurahans over an average of four
months to form the BKMs; in Phase 2, nearly 300,000 meetings were held in 1,323 kelurahans over an
average of 10 months. The Gajahmada qualitative study confirmed that in general UPP has contributed
positively to the organizational dynamic at the kelurahan level. Further strengthening of collaboration
with local governments is needed to ensure BKM sustainability. GOI has allocated funds under UPP2 and
UPP3, as well as from domestic funding, to strengthen this collaboration (for UPP1 BKMs). The amount
spent under this component exceeded the original allocation by about US$10 million. This was due to the
need for a longer facilitation process as a consequence of the MTR design changes discussed in 4.1 above.
In addition, extra support was required to assist GOI in developing UPP as a national program.

TA for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). This component financed M&E experts as part of the
NMC. It also financed the training of OCs and facilitators in data collection and in operation of the
Management Information Systems (MIS). The MIS took some time to be properly established due to the
geographic spread of the kelurahans and the different data sources. The MTR revealed certain weaknesses
in the MIS, and a concerted effort was made after the MTR to improve the system and the frequency and
reliability of data. (After UPP2 was approved, the additional kelurahans were incorporated into the same
system.) The MIS is updated regularly and is used to monitor implementation status and identify issues.
Regular discussions took place to review the results of the data. However, at Credit closing, the feedback
systems from OCs to the NMC were still being improved under UPP2 and UPP3.

Increased Government Administration. Local governments allocated more own funds to the project than
were initially required. In Phase 2, the participating local governments generally allocated an amount equal
to at least 5% of the total kelurahan grant for administrative purposes. Certain local governments also
allocated funds for additional workshops and community training.




                                                              - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact was substantial at all levels and had a significant impact on
the formulation of a nation-wide urban poverty reduction program.

Community-level. During implementation, elements such as enhancing volunteerism, community
contributions, and democratic elections for BKM members, challenged conventional wisdom about the
nature of community-based organizations and their roles in government-sponsored projects. The MTR
revealed that 82% of the BKMs were seen by their clients as free from embezzlement and corruption. The
detailed financial review of 125 BKMs of Phase 2 (June 2004) revealed relatively insignificant cases of
misuse of funds. The BKMs are exhibiting stronger capacity to initiate and manage collective community
action for various activities, as shown in the high level of community contributions to the project. Further,
some social organizations are also exploring the possibility of working with BKMs.

Local governments. By transferring funds directly to the BKMs, the project initially bypassed local
governments in order to accelerate implementation and reduce the potential for corruption. After the
passage of the Decentralization Law (1999), which gave full responsibility and authority to local
governments to deliver local level services, the relationship between BKMs and local governments required
strengthening, and efforts were made in Phase 2 to enhance this relationship (see Section 4.1). Local
governments now generally recognize the efficiency and accountability of the BKMs formed through UPP,
and some are already using the BKM to implement additional local government-funded poverty programs.
A program that fosters this partnership, the Poverty Alleviation Partnership Grant, where local government
agencies and BKMs jointly access and use funds for poverty alleviation, was introduced in UPP2.

National level government. The project triggered a fundamental rethinking of strategies pertaining to
poverty alleviation. The project's impact is demonstrated by the fact that GOI proceeded with UPP2 and
UPP3. Further, various GOI agencies such as the Ministry of Cooperatives and the Ministry of Education
are currently exploring the possibility of using the BKM as their interlocutor for their future programs (see
also Section 6.1). In FY05, formal cooperation between BKMs and the Ministry of Education was agreed
upon, beginning with a larger pilot project in a number of cities after the successful outcome of a pilot
project in FY04.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The general business climate is a key determinant for investment, economic development, economic
recovery, and job creation. The absence of political stability, the lack of clear and farsighted policies,
continued problems in the banking sector, and the recurrence of unruly demonstrations and ethnic violence
impeded Indonesia's economic recovery and resulting reduction of poverty. The continuous changes in the
application of the 1999 Decentralization Law created confusion at the local level for the project
implementers, both with regard to budgeting of counterpart funds and the roles of elected bodies at the local
level.




                                                      - 9 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political changes and ministerial reorganizations in the first two years of implementation had an important
impact on implementation. During this time, the government agency responsible for the project shifted
three times: (a) from BAPPENAS to the Directorate General of Human Settlements (DGHS) in the
Ministry of Public Works soon after effectiveness in June 1999; (b) to the Directorate General of Urban
Development a few months later; and (c) finally to the newly formed Directorate General of Housing and
Human Settlements in 2000. These changes had serious consequences for the budget and other
administrative arrangements and delayed the procurement of key TA. The decision of the Ministry of
Finance (MoF) to change the arrangements for counterpart funding immediately after the project launch
also resulted in implementation delays. An important turning point was the 1999 Decentralization Law,
which laid the groundwork for stronger local government involvement in Phase 2.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project's success owes much to the strong commitment and continuous efforts of the implementing
agency and its consultants. During and after the April 2001 MTR, the Executing Agency was instrumental
in assisting with the redesign and full operationalization of the project approach (see Section 7.5)

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original IDA Credit was US$100 million equivalent. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated
at US$129.7 million, of which US$100 million (77%) was financed from the Credit, and US$15.5 million
reallocated from the Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP, Ln. 3726-IND). At closing, US$95.7
million had been disbursed. In August 2001, a reallocation was made from Category (1) for Grants and
Sub-loans to Category (2) for Consultancy Services. Aside from US$9 million reallocated from the
Category 1, Category 2 for Consultancy Services received reallocated funds from both the SUDP (US$4.7
million, reduced from initial US$15.5 million committed) and Kalimantan Urban Development Project (Ln.
3854-IND, US$2.8 million). The amount spent under Component 2 exceeded the original allocation by
about US$10 million. This was due to the need for a longer process of facilitation as a consequence of a
greater emphasis on capacity building for both the community and the Government following the MTR.
Extra support was also required to assist the Government in developing UPP as a national program (see
Section 6.2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely. GOI remains committed to the project's approach and continues to
scale it up nationwide. The policy framework and tools necessary to take the project nation-wide have
taken shape and are rooted in project implementation at national, local and community levels. Along with
the decentralization process, a partnership-building mechanism with the local governments was
incorporated into Phase 2. Further, GOI allocated significant funds in 2005 to maintain facilitation support
for the UPP BKMs. In more than 30 local governments, additional funding was allocated and activities
implemented, including replication of the UPP model to additional kelurahans, using BKMs as the
interlocutor for delivering other services, etc. Under UPP2, a new component known as the Poverty
Alleviation Partnership Grant, was added to continue to engage BKMs and foster collaboration with local
governments. UPP3 incorporates more learning from UPP and UPP2, and will expand its concept to all
provinces and ensure implementation through 2011.

The project's objectives remain aligned with the latest CAS (October 2003) which identifies two primary
constraints to further reducing poverty: (a) inadequate productive employment opportunities resulting from



                                                     - 10 -

a weak investment climate; and (b) lack of quality service delivery to poor people. Progress in these two
areas, in turn, is compromised by weak governance. The CAS aims to address these constraints through
four business platforms, one of which is the Community Driven Development (CDD) platform. UPP is the
core program in the CDD platform for urban areas in the Bank's lending portfolio.

The sustainability of UPP ultimately depends on BKM sustainability. This is highly likely given (a) the
level of participation and engagement of the community in electing the BKMs (particularly in Phase 2); (b)
the high level of volunteerism from community members; (c) the continued support provided by the central
government to facilitating the BKMs; and (d) the increased involvement of local governments in BKM
activities in general, and the use of BKMs to deliver other services.

Infrastructure built under the project is likely to be operated and maintained well, given the level of the
communities' own resources invested in them, and their active participation in planning, selecting and
implementing the sub-projects. The revolving funds are expected to continue to be operated at the
community level. Following a critical evaluation of the revolving fund operations at MTR, GOI
established an exit strategy for the revolving funds. The strategy includes employing Bank Rakyat
International (BRI, a state-owned bank) to provide continued mentoring and training to BKM accountants,
and special support to the Phase 1 BKMs (which did not benefit from the design changes of Phase 2) to
improve their revolving fund functions. Additional incentives have also been provided for BKMs in UPP to
continue to perform well, and for the relevant local governments to continually strengthen their BKMs, by
making them (both BKMs and local governments) eligible to participate in the PAPG of UPP2, through
which they can access additional resources to jointly implement poverty alleviation activities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In June 2002, the Bank team and the implementing agency initiated a BKM Portrait Study to assess the
potential sustainability of all Phase 1 BKMs. Based on this study, transition strategies were designed for
the BKMs to become self-reliant and sustainable upon project completion, including: (a) winding down
BKMs considered not capable of surviving in the long run; (b) consolidating BKM activities with a focus
on viable activities; (c) clarifying the role of BKMs as the platform for comprehensive community
development planning and implementation; and (d) liaising the BKMs more closely with local governments,
as well as lobbying and supporting local governments so that they would cooperate with BKMs in poverty
alleviation efforts. In parallel, the project engaged BRI to carry out a refresher professional training
program on financial management, targeting over 2,400 persons from the various UPKs to ensure improved
management of the ongoing activities and the ensuring the sustainability of the project. In UPP2, while
monitoring functions will be based in the Project Management Unit (PMU), a more comprehensive
structure for impact evaluation has been set up, including a baseline survey and ad-hoc evaluation studies.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The project was
consistent with GOI's priorities and with the CAS Update of February 1999. The Bank team assisted GOI
to prepare the project in record time and with economy. During a time of political uncertainty, GOI
requested the Bank team to execute a project preparation grant which the Bank did very efficiently.
Competent experts with considerable experience in similar types of projects were mobilized, and
preparation activities generated a capable pool of resources, in both the Government and the Bank; this
proved a critical asset during implementation.




                                                       - 11 -

The project's design made a breakthrough in operationalizing a concept of direct transfer of funds,
combined with delegation of authority to community-based organizations over decisions related to the use
of funds. This was an important lesson from similar projects (KIP, VIP). In those projects, communities
were involved in planning and programming, but usually the Government managed the funds, often
resulting in a lack of flexibility and community ownership. UPP was designed with the belief that
communities were ready to take responsibility for planning as well as using the funds. Risks were
recognized and measures built in to counter them. However, some measures proved inadequate. For
example, to address the risk of improper use of funds, a community surveillance mechanism was built in
and incentives and outsider reviews proposed. In a context where community organizations were being
formed from scratch, assuming that these mitigation measures could be implemented in parallel was overly
ambitious. This gap had to be bridged by the implementation teams, who closely collaborated with the
communities to set up a monitoring mechanism adapted to community dynamics. With regard to other
aspects of preparation, the safeguard policies were adequately addressed and environmental guidelines were
effective; the assumption that the works under the project would be minor, and would have positive
impacts, proved valid. Although the TOR were ready and support teams in place for the Executing Agency
before Credit effectiveness, some major organizational changes were not envisaged during appraisal,
including GOI's sudden decision to change the executing agency. The project implementation plan was
highly ambitious, considering the level of political instability and the time required to support community
level groups.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated fully satisfactory. The supervision team made
extraordinary efforts to oversee project implementation and steer all the actors, especially the organizations
that had been newly formed for UPP, towards understanding this innovative approach and achieving the
project's objectives. The Bank team, together with the Executing Agency, made a conscious effort to
continuously evaluate this approach, to detect weaknesses at the earliest possible stage, and identify viable
remedies. This required modifications that carried a considerable risk because they had not been tested
before. Because of this willingness to take risks, the design continued to evolve but the concept has
endured through UPP2 and UPP3. The team carried out systematic, intensive supervision, mainly from the
Jakarta office (indeed, several smaller missions were not captured by Project Status Reports (PSRs)).
Consultants with specialized skills were mobilized to strengthen implementation and provide guidance to
GOI. PSR ratings were realistic and responsive to the project's innovative nature. The team's attention to
development impact is reflected in the fact that the project design was substantially improved during MTR.
The team's attitude of learning-by-doing and its systematic incorporation of lessons into the project were
particularly effective.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower showed openness
towards an unconventional project design, including an unprecedented high delegation of authority to
community-based organizations. The Borrower accepted the project's considerable inherent design risks, in
order to attain benefits that would have otherwise eluded them. The project was prepared in a relatively
short period and at a lower cost than other urban projects of the time. GOI trained a large number
facilitators and began the process of hiring OC before Credit effectiveness.




                                                     - 12 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOI's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Initially some of its actions impeded
implementation. As mentioned in Section 5, as soon as the Credit became effective, GOI shifted project
responsibility from BAPPENAS to the Ministry of Public Works, under the Directorate General of Human
Settlements, then shifted it again to the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development. These changes
had serious implications for the budget and administrative arrangements for project management. The
project also experienced delays in securing sufficient counterpart funds for both phases, which adversely
affected implementation (and caused the Bank to rate the project "unsatisfactory" in implementation
progress after the first supervision mission). However, as the project progressed, both the Executing
Agency and MOF demonstrated significantly greater responsiveness in taking necessary measures to speed
up implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Management Unit's performance is rated satisfactory. Due to the frequent changes cited
above, the PMU's initial performance was unsatisfactory. However, as the project progressed, the
implementation arrangements were adjusted to allow for the management of UPP as a national program,
and the PMU was accorded a higher administrative level. This change helped accelerate implementation
through more systematic monitoring of implementation, including regular meetings between the director of
the PMU and the project implementers, as well as with the Bank, to remove implementation bottlenecks.
Further, the PMU also improved coordination among local governments and communities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Many of the key lessons learned were not about building infrastructure or running revolving funds, but
were about implementing effective, large-scale CDD programs and developing community-based
organizations that people could trust to make decisions and implement poverty alleviation projects on their
behalf.

Accountability and transparency in CDD projects depend critically on how the community leadership
is chosen. An election process, with no formally declared candidates and secret ballots, allowed voters to
vote for any member of the community based on their own past interaction. The results were effective, and
compare favorably with the results of traditional elections with declared candidates.

A process that allows community members to develop and articulate the core values they appreciate
in the leadership of community organizations is a vital ingredient for a successful election. The project
showed that once the communities articulate the values they want in their leaders, the level of awareness
and expectation increases and communities tend to choose leaders who might not have emerged from a
conventional election.

In order to develop a long-term program on poverty reduction, building on intrinsic motivation for
leadership and human capital must be emphasized. The project was able to attract significantly more
volunteers and community support after the financial incentives were taken away, and more intrinsic
motivation was emphasized.




                                                     - 13 -

The traditional approach of formal evaluation after completion of each project phase is ineffective for
CDD programs; rather, a culture of continual learning, self-evaluation and improvement is more
valuable. The project showed that it is possible to practice such an implementation strategy on a large
scale, but both the government and the Bank must be flexible and have a shared understanding of a vision
that goes well beyond the project. This requires both sides to develop a high level of trust.

Positive impacts of successful community participation can only be scaled up if combined with
effective local government participation, but this process takes time to evolve. With the passing of the
1999 Decentralization Law, the environment became more appropriate to strengthen partnerships with local
governments. Many urban services are part of larger networks and the synergy between communities and
the local government is critical.

A creative, multi-layered management structure is a prerequisite for successful implementation of
large-scale CDD projects. Such a structure should include conventional layers of accountability to
effectively decentralize implementation, and a clearly articulated feedback system. UPP provided TA
to form consultant teams who supported implementation at every level (NMC at national level, OCs at
provincial level and facilitators at the kelurahan/community level). The system was designed to minimize
duplication of roles. The formation of project collaborators (leaders, volunteers, facilitators) at the
community level was particularly important to ensure that communities felt empowered to resolve their own
issues.

The success of the program depends fundamentally on the facilitators. The management structure
should be designed to support facilitators rather than supervise them. This approach motivated facilitators
and improved their effectiveness at kelurahan level, in addition to building a stronger sense of cohesion
among the consultant teams. The "facilitator support" oriented management requires not only vertical
support from higher levels of management, but a platform for sharing and learning among the facilitators.
Regular meetings among facilitators, timely coaching and mentoring, as well as free communication
between the facilitators (such as the UPP website), are examples of the kind of support facilitators need.

Appropriate numbers of facilitators in each community are critical to developing community
ownership. Beyond just efficiency considerations, a lesson learned under UPP is that slightly smaller
numbers of facilitators can create a space that can be filled by community volunteers. In Phase 2, the
number of facilitators was reduced, resulting in a significant increase in the number of volunteers, which in
turn meant stronger community ownership and a more sustainable system of facilitation.

Micro-credit through BKMs is not an effective way to reach the poorest of the poor. BKMs have
incentives to preserve their capital so they tend to be risk averse, and thus tend to lend money to existing
small businesses, which are generally not run by the poorest people. The poorest also tend not to apply for
micro-credit. The project was more effective in reaching the poorest of the poor when more funds were
allocated by the communities for infrastructure and social programs as was done under Phase 2.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
L:\DATA1\Dewi\Surat\English\P2KP\P2KP1tahap2\srtDJ-comment-ICR(260505)-A.doc
                            MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF
                            HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
                                       Jl. Pattimura No. 20, Kebayoran Baru - Jakarta Selatan 12110 Telp (021) 727 96158 Fax 727 96155




                                                                            - 14 -

Our Ref.                                                                    Jakarta, 30 May 2005

To
Mr. Keshav Varma
Sector Director
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region, The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA

Subject :        Comments for the World Bank's ICR for Urban Poverty Project (UPP)
            Loan IDA Cr.3210

Dear Mr. Varma,

We are very pleased to note that the overall achievement of UPP I is rated satisfactory. We also would
like to express our appreciation for the best collaboration and networks developed during the project
implementation period. In general, the Government is in conformity with the Bank's assessments in
the ICR. However, we feel it is necessary to add the following comments:
1.       We understand this project emerged as one among poverty alleviation programs that were
implemented as a response to economic crises in Indonesia. However, we believe that through these
following efforts, this project has brought a new perspective for urban poverty alleviation in
Indonesia: (i) make a sustainable program rather than a `charity' program, (ii) internalize universal
principles and human values to strengthen the capacity of community institution, (iii) encourage the
process of social transformation from the powerless (poor) society to become the empowered society
as the foundation of self-reliance building of the community.
2.       We noticed the project was prepared in a very unstable country economic, social, and
political condition but has been very successful to rapidly and transparently distribute funds to the
urban poor. However, Local Governments involvement in this project needs to be improved. The LGs
should be involved from the beginning of the project through raising awareness process. The exit
strategy program with fully involving LGs also needs to be thoroughly implemented to ensure
sustainability of the project.
3.       The project was implemented in a very dynamic situation. It is therefore necessary changes or
adjustments to the project design and implementation strategy have been taken to allow continuous
learning immediately incorporated into the project. However, we would be grateful if the approval
mechanism from the Bank on those changes could be shortened to avoid delay in the project
implementation.

Please find the detail comments as attached.

Accordingly, we have already adopted the lessons learned from the UPP-1 to Second UPP manuals and
request your support to keep the project implementation on schedule.

Thank you for your kind attention and continuous support.

Sincerely yours,



Agoes Widjanarko
Director General for Human Settlements
Ministry of Public Works




                                                  - 15 -

Attachment: Detailed GOI Comments.

A.       Overall Comments

1.       The project emerged as one among poverty alleviation programs implemented as a response to
economic crises in Indonesia. However it has brought a new perspective for urban poverty alleviation in
Indonesia, especially by: (i) making a sustainable program rather than a `charity' program, (2) internalizing
universal principles and human values to strengthen the capacity of community institution, (3) encouraging
the process of social transformation from the powerless (poor) society to become the empowered society as
the foundation of self-reliance building of the community.

2.       The project was prepared in a very unstable country economic, social, and political condition but
has been very successful to rapidly and transparently distribute funds to the urban poor. The involvement
of Local Governments has been built from the beginning of the project but need to be continuously
improved through raising awareness process. The exit strategy program is currently on going on the UPP
sites to ensure sustainability of the project.

3.       The project was implemented in a very dynamic situation. Necessary changes or adjustments to the
project design and implementation strategy have been taken to allow continuous learning immediately
incorporated into the project. However, the Bank should accelerate the approval of those changes to avoid
delay in the project implementation.

B.       Statement of Objective

1.       Project Development Objective and Design

In general, the GOI concurs with the Bank's assessment that the objectives were clear, realistic and was
responsive to the need of the country. The project objective supports the idea that institutional strengthening
should be thoroughly addressed both at community and local government level. The role of Local
Government has been strengthened from the beginning of the project, especially in UPP1 phase 2. As a
consequence, the role of Central Government has decreased and has been minimized at project completion.
On the other hand, building of community's social capital has been also strengthened to promote
sustainable poverty alleviation program

2.       Project component

The GOI agrees with the Bank's assessment that the project components were relevant to achieving the
objectives. The project has promoted open menu system in utilization of kelurahan grants. However,
experience shows that revolving funds has dominated the utilization of grant. It is therefore important to
improve social capital building of community through Exit Strategy Program to ensure that the project
meets its objectives. Furthermore, the revolving funds should be given as temporary, which then should be
replaced and continued by the Bank in their market interests as community show its readiness.




                                                   - 16 -

C.       Achievement of Objective and Output

1.       Achievement of Project Objective

In general, the GOI is in conformity with the Bank's assessment that overall achievement of the project
objective is satisfactory. The project approach has successfully generated community contribution in terms
of financing, reduced costs, and resulted in better quality of works when basic infrastructure activities were
carried out in urban poor neighborhood. The micro credit activities generated in UPP have reduced the role
of `rentenir' (loan shark) which had burdened the community with their high interest rate before. Through
improved Local Government capacity building, Local Governments have shown their commitment to this
project through replication in other kelurahans and their enthusiasm to prepare PAPG proposal

2.       Achievement of Project Output

Ihe GOI concurs with the Bank's assessment that overall project outputs were satisfactory since most of it
have surpassed the PAD target. Participatory planning process and transparency in project implementation
has increased the project outputs, as shown by high willingness of community to contribute and to become
unpaid BKM members (Community's self-reliance body) as the board of trustee, as well as community
volunteers.

Higher number of community proposals could be accommodated through this project since community
volunteers, who work without payments, have been also involved to help the community, together with the
community facilitators. This also indicates that social capital of community that has been built since the
beginning of the project is starting to materialize.

The project has facilitated the formation of `learning community' at kota/kabupaten level named KBP
(Komunitas Belajar Perkotaan). Through KBP, where all members of Regional Poverty Alleviation
Committee (KPKD) are involved, the BKMs'programs could be better understood and accommodated as
part of action plan of the Regional Poverty Alleviation Strategy (SPKD)

3.       Institutional Development Impact

The project has strengthened Local Government institutional capacity to alleviate poverty in their
regions. The scope of the project to ensure representative and trusted local community institution at
kelurahan level and mid-term community development plan available before disbursement of funding,
provides foundation for sustainable poverty alleviation program. This community institution (BKM) acts
as vehicle for channeling of Local Government's as well as other stakeholders' program. BKM and its
CDP will ensure utilization of funding from any sources becoming more effective and accountable.

D.       Major Factors Affecting the Project

1.       Factors outside control of the Government or Implementing Agency

The GOI is in principle agrees with the Bank's thought that business climate, political stability, and
problem in banking sector has impeded the results of poverty reduction program. Lack of micro credit
accessible for the poor provided by the banking sector has caused highest utilization of the kelurahan grant
for revolving funds. To overcome this issue, the Government has initiated collaboration with PT BRI to
strengthen the capacity of BKMs in managing micro credit and to open access of BKM to the bigger source
of funding for micro credit activities. Another factor affecting the implementation is that dynamic of local


                                                     - 17 -

conditions that have been incorporated into the project design. As a result, the implementation schedule
could not be maintained as it was initially created.

2.       Factors generally subject to control of implementing agency

In general, the GOI concurs with the Bank's assessment that the dynamic of political, economic, and social
environment has highly influenced the project implementation, as a consequence, the project had to revise
the project manual for the second phase (UPP1 phase 2) to accommodate learnings.

E.       Sustainability

The project is considered to have a good prospect of sustainability. The Government has initiated actions to
achieve greater sustainability of the project:
-   In the fiscal year of 2005, the GOI has increased their matching fund to 40% rather than 5% as it was
    before. This additional funding is especially allocated for exit strategy program, providing office space
    for local facilitators, and replication of project in other kelurahans
-   The project has initiated the formation of learning community at kelurahan and kota/kab level. At
    kelurahan level, it is called KBK ­ Komunitas Belajar Kelurahan which is normally organized by the
    community volunteers. At kota/kab level, many KBP ­ Komunitas Belajar Perkotaan are motorized by
    the Region's Poverty Alleviation Committee (KPKD). Such learning activities would motivate them to
    create poverty alleviation program, which could be funded by various stakeholders (ministries, private
    company, Bank, NGO, etc). The pro-activeness of community supported by Local Government will
    become a basic for civil society building in the future.
-   Several partnership or channeling initiatives has been also started. Various pilot projects were
    confirmed by the Ministry of Cooperatives, Ministry of Education, PT BRI, and PT PNM, which will
    be continued in case it is successful. Ministry of public works also carried out regular program for
    housing and infrastructure rehabilitation (funded by national budget) and ADB funded program
    `Neighborhood Upgrading and Shelter Sector Project' (NUSSP) through BKM.
-   It is expected that starting from 2005 or after two years of exit strategy program implemented, the
    project will be rated satisfactory since there will be complementary programs to be channeled by
    various stakeholders through BKM.

F.       Bank and Borrower performance

1.       The Bank performance

The GOI is rated the Bank's performance as satisfactory. There has been good collaboration between the
GOI and the Bank during preparation as well as implementation of the project. The GOI appreciates the
technical assistance and support provided by the Bank to ensure the project meets its objective. However,
The GOI expects that the Bank could simplify and accelerate the issuance of NOL to avoid delay in the
project implementation. Some project proposals had to wait for more than two months before the NOL is
issued. The GOI also feels there are too many aspects that need approval from the bank and therefore too
many NOL to be provided by the Bank.




                                                       - 18 -

2.         The Government performance

The GOI in principle agrees with the Bank's rating satisfactory to the Government's performance. The
GOI now continues to improve its implementation arrangements. More systematic coordination and
monitoring of the project implementation have been applied, supported by management information system,
which is continually improved.

The project was developed with `learning by doing' process and through continues learning. The project
has been divided into two phases whereas many lessons learned from phase 1 was decided to be
accommodated in phase two. Several adjustments were then made to the project design and implementation
strategy, which is formulated in the project guidelines for phase 2. That policy has caused project
implementation delay. However, the GOI found that it creates advantage for project sustainability since the
community was better prepared to manage the fund.

G.         Lessons Learned

Several key lessons learned were materialized from implementation of the project:
(i) The financial management performance conducted by BKM has been effective to build the trust of
      community as well as stakeholders. This is expected will be attractive for stakeholders channeling
      programs
(ii) The success of program sustainability is relied on volunteers, which continually support community's
      initiatives. The facilitators has developed `Kelurahan Learning Community' to maintain the role of
      volunteers after the project completion
(iii) Local Government participation could be optimum if Regional Poverty Alleviation Committee
      (KPKD), which comprises of various stakeholders including NGOs, actively coordinates the poverty
      alleviation programs in the region. The Oversight consultants has developed `Urban Learning
      Community' to motivate KPKD to be more active in playing role as a mediator of all sectors
      channeling poverty alleviation program which is expected to be responsive to the community needs.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Key Performance     PAD Target         Actual       Actual in %
Indicator                                            of PAD
                                                      Target
                      Project
                    Development
                     Objectives
Number of              2,800           2,621          93.4 %
participating
Kelurahans
Disbursements to    Rp.730 billion  Rp.737.8 billion  101 %
Kelurahans
                   Project Outputs
Sub-projects
Cumulative number      20,000         194,905        974.5%
of proposals
submitted
Percentage of          >80%            91.7%
proposals approved
Sub-loan               >90%         Phase 1:56.3%
repayment                          Phase 2: 91.0%
Monitoring
No. of sites           >10%         Phase 2: 15%
monitored by
Secretariat
Audits (sample)         2.5%       98% for Phase 1
                                   Phase 2: Not yet
                                        due.




                                         - 20 -

Table 2


                                    Indicators                         PAD Target    1999-2002      2002-2004      Total UPP1

                                                                                    UPP 1 Phase 1  UPP 1 Phase 2
    I.    INPUTS
  1.1     Cummulative number of kelurahan assisted                           2,800           1298           1323           2621
    1.2Disbursements to kelurahan (BKM), Rp. Billion                            730         530.7          207.1          737.8
    1.3Disbursement from BKM to KSM, Rp. Billion                                            456.5          194.1          650.6
    1.4Oversight consultants/facilitators, persons                             6,900        5,910          6,148         12,058
        - OC                                                                                  240            286            526
        - kelurahan project facilitators                                                    1,776            485          2,261
        - kelurahan community facilitators (trained volunteers for                          3,894          5,377          9,271
        phase 2)
    1.5Government PJOKs                                                      > 1,000          430            430            860

    II.   OUTPUTS
  2.1     Subprojects
        - Cummulative number of proposals submitted                           20,000    92,058 (1)       102,847        194,905
        - Percentage of proposals, approved                                   > 80%          91.6           91.8           91.7
        - Repayment rate                                                      > 90%          56.3       90.7 (2)

  2.1.1Infrastructure subprojects
     a    Proposal approved
          - Number                                                                          5,572         12,517         18,089
          - Rp. Billion                                                                      76.6           78.2          154.8
          - UPP funding (Rp. Billion)                                                        47.2           37.6           84.8

       bProgress (physical & disbursement)
        a. Physical
            # m of roads, paths, bridges                                             1,347,448 (3)     1,867,645
           # m of drainage, irrigation                                                279,461 (3)        948,812
            # unit water supply                                                            165 (3)         3,435
           # unit public toilet                                                            433 (3)         3,023
           # unit solid waste                                                            2266 (3)          8,170
           # unit housing, office, security                                                    n.a         5,863
           # unit health                                                                       n.a            56
           # unit street lighting                                                              n.a         5,235
           # unit education facilities                                                         n.a           154
           # unit Trade facilities                                                             n.a           103
           # others                                                                            n.a         varies

        b. Kel. Grants (Rp)
            Roads, paths, bridges                                                   23,130,225,279 16,492,396,493 39,622,621,772
            Drainage and irrigation                                                 12,764,229,664 11,698,071,130 24,462,300,794
            Water supply                                                             1,120,684,315  1,743,390,813  2,864,075,128
           Public toilet                                                              952,607,940   3,139,905,979  4,092,513,919
           Solid waste                                                               2,816,710,902  1,226,249,579  4,042,960,481
           Housing, office, security                                                 2,178,948,637  2,101,455,075  4,280,403,712
           Health facilities                                                                     -    40,425,200               -
           Street lighting                                                                       -   436,703,804               -
           Education facilities                                                                  -   104,705,495               -
           Trade facilities                                                                      -    72,437,000               -
           Others                                                                    4,197,027,200   559,804,683   4,756,831,883
           Total                                                                    47,160,433,937 37,615,545,251 84,775,979,188

        b. Community contribution
            Roads, paths, bridges                                                              n.a 18,753,596,742              -
            Drainage and irrigation                                                            n.a  9,812,476,619              -
            Water supply                                                                       n.a  1,307,187,037              -




                                                                - 21 -

          Public toilet                                                                     n.a 1,965,661,506                 -
          Solid waste                                                                      n.a    586,981,178                 -
          Housing, office, security                                                        n.a  1,858,213,615                 -
          Health facilities                                                                n.a     38,100,000                 -
          Street lighting                                                                  n.a    387,728,000                 -
          Education facilities                                                             n.a    193,995,000                 -
          Trade facilities                                                                 n.a     85,236,500                 -
          Others                                                                           n.a    634,918,904                 -
          Total                                                                 29,455,095,845 35,624,095,101   65,079,190,946

      cBeneficiaries (HH)                                                            1,234,200      1,465,195       2,699,395

 2.1.2Economic Activities
     a.Subloans proposal approved
          - Number                                                                      78,521         78,107         156,628
          - Rp. Billion                                                                  406.9          409.4            816.3
          - UPP funding (Rp. Billion)                                                    406.9          154.5            561.4
     b.New subloans with repayments (revolved funds)
       (revolved funds)
          - Rp. Billion                                                                   231.0       38.0 (2)           269.0
     c.Beneficiaries (HH)                                                               560,625       379,143         939,768

 2.1.3Social Activities (incl. scholarship, widow& elderly
       grant, training, etc)
     a.Proposal approved
          - Number                                                                        287           3,848            4,135
          - Rp. Billion                                                                    2.4            15.1              18
          - UPP funding (Rp. Billion)                                                      2.4            10.9              13
     b.Beneficiaries                                                                     3,748        293,892         297,640

   2.2Monitoring
 2.2.1Number of sites monitored by Secretariat (PMU)                      > 10%                                           13%
 2.2.2Number of sites monitored by Level II                      Each kelurahan         >1000           >1200
                                                                    twice / year    kelurahans     kelurahans
   2.3Audits, kelurahan sample                                            2.50%  3% by BPKP in 3% by BPKP in    3% by BPKP in
                                                                                         2004            2004             2004
 2.3.1Independent audit                                                                   98%      not yet due
                                                                                   (2001-2002)
 2.3.2% of BKM with unqualified audit reports                                             84%      not yet due

  III.  IMPACTS
 3.1    Independent monitoring (NGOs, universities, etc)                10% of                                   5%/total years
                                                                    kelurahan
                                                                 surveyed/year
   3.2Beneficiary satisfaction surveys:                         10% of kelurahan           2%              2%
                                                                  surveyed/year
       a. % of persons surveyed, aware of program                         > 90%      91.05 (2)      95.73 (2)
       b. % of persons survey, satisfied with program                     > 70%      88.19 (2)       83.45 (2)

 3.3    Beneficiaries
        Number of HH                                                                 5,352,416      2,422,776       7,775,192
       Number of HH to benefit                                                   1,794,825 (4)  2,138,230 (4)       3,933,055
       % HH to benefit                                                      30%          33.53          88.26            50.58
       Estimate number of population to benefit                                      7,179,300      8,552,920      15,732,220

  IV.   OTHER INDICATORS

   4.1Transparency
4.1.1   Number of meetings held in Project Kelurahans                                    7,346        282,682         290,028
4.1.2   Time required to establish Kelurahan forum/groups                            4 months     8-10 months
 4.1.3Monitoring boards, number and adequacy                                      5 board each   notice boards
                                                                                     kelurahan    and bulletins
4.1.4   Complaints; website; email address; PO. Box; Newspaper                  Complaint      Complaint        Complaint




                                                          - 22 -

           articles                                                                           handling unit     handling unit      handling unit
                                                                                              available;        available;         available;
                                                                                              website           website            website
                                                                                              available         available          available
                                                                                              (www.p2kp.or.id   (www.p2kp.or.id    (www.p2kp.or.id
                                                                                              );                );                 ); Total 1,412
                                                                                                                                   recorded and
                                                                                                                                   processed

    4.2    Number of coordinating committees formed at city                                                 58               58                  58
           level                                                                                                (similar areas of
                                                                                                                        phase1)

    4.3    Socialization
    4.3.1# UPP socialization meetings per kelurahan (# total mtgs/                                        5.60              213
          #kelurahan)
    4.3.2Total # socialization meetings                                                                  7,346          282,682
    4.3.3# community members (BKM, KSM, UPK, cadre) trained per                                              2               30
          kelurahan

    4.4    Community Cadres/volunteers
    4.4.1# community cadres (male/female)                                                         34,229    (5)           17,986             52,205
    4.4.2# community cadres trained                                                                18,184 (5)              5,377             23,561
    4.4.3# community cadres (male/female) per kelurahan                                                31 (5)                14
    4.4.4# female cadres per kelurahan                                                                 23 (5)                  4

      4.5BKM
   4.5.1   # BKMs elected and formed                                                                     1,298             1,323              2,621
    4.5.2# members in BKMs (male/female)                                                                15,014            18,686             33,700
    4.5.3# female BKM members                                                                            2,449             3,766              6,215
    4.5.4Number of population that voted for BKM                                                           N/A        1,488,100
    4.5.5% of population that voted for BKM                                                                N/A              25.6
   4.5.6   # of BKM forums at city level stablished                                                  46

      4.6CDP (Community Development Plan)
    4.6.1% of participating kelurahan w/ community development plans                             not applicable            100%
          completed and ratified
    4.6.2 # kelurahan with CDP                                                                   not applicable            1,323

      4.7Community Groups (KSM)
    4.7.1# community groups (KSMs)                                                                 96,556 (4)        65,594 (4)             162,150
    4.7.2# members in KSMs (male/female)                                                              670,791           421,644          1,092,435
    4.7.3# female members in KSMs                                                                     234,777           175,587             410,364

    4.8    Woman participation (%)
    4.8.1Kelurahan Facilitator                                                                            28.19            23.70              24.33
    4.8.2Community Preparation Meeting                                                                29.90 (5)            23.88              28.96
    4.8.3Community Volunteer                                                                          25.60 (5)            26.87              27.16
    4.8.4Volunteer Trained                                                                            29.23 (5)            25.92              28.38
    4.8.5FGD Poverty Reflection                                                                       17.90 (5)            31.50              29.47
    4.8.6Community Self Survey                                                                        30.45 (5)            28.73              29.59
    4.8.7CSS Team                                                                                     24.79 (5)            21.15              22.97
    4.8.8BKM election process (as voters)                                                                     na           36.70              36.70
    4.8.9BKM member                                                                                       18.40            20.15              20.15
 4.8.10    KSM member                                                                                    35.00             41.20              38.10
*) Refer mainly to UPP1 phase 1 Final Report 1999-2002 (December 2002)
**) Refer to UPP-MIS (October 2004)
(1)        And continue to increase; conservative estimate is expected to be 150,000 proposals have now been funded from only phase 1
(2)        Based on survey in 60 kelurahans sample of UPP1 phase 1 and 2 (November 2004)
(3)        Based on survey in 63 kelurahan sample conducted on March 2002
(4)        Continue to increase
(5)        This data collected based on additional support for the phase 1 BKMs (after exit strategy was implemented, incorporating
learning of UPP phase 2)




                                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                        Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million US$ million
Grants for subprojects                                   109.40           94.0         85.9
- Grants from IDA                                                         76.3
- Community Contribution                                                  17.7
TA for implementation                                     15.50           25.9        167.1
TA for monitoring                                          1.50            1.0         66.7
GOI administration                                         3.30            5.3        160.6

Total Baseline Cost                                      129.70         126.2          97.3

                           Total Project Costs           129.70         126.2          97.3

                     Total Financing Required            129.70         126.2          97.3




                                             - 24 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Procurement      Method    1
     Expenditure Category                  ICB               NCB                                 N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                               Other 2
1. Works                                  0.00                0.00              0.00              0.00               0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                  0.00                0.00              0.00              0.00               0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
3. Services                               0.00                0.00              17.00             3.30              20.30
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)              (1.50)           (0.00)             (1.50)
4. Miscellaneous                          0.00                0.00             109.40             0.00             109.40
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (98.50)           (0.00)            (98.50)
   Total                                  0.00                0.00             126.40             3.30             129.70
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)            (100.00)           (0.00)           (100.00)


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                        Procurement       Method   1
     Expenditure Category                  ICB               NCB                                N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                              Other  2
1. Works                                  0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                  0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
3. Services                               0.00                0.00             26.90             5.30              26.90
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)            (19.40)           (0.00)            (19.40)
4. Miscellaneous                          0.00                0.00             94.00             0.00              94.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)            (76.30)           (0.00)            (76.30)
   Total                                  0.00                0.00             120.9             5.30             126.20
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)            (95.70)           (0.00)            (95.70)


  1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan (IDA CR-3210). All costs include
     contingencies.
  2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
     of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
     managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                    - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
    Component           Appraissal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraissal
                      Bank     Govt.    CoF.      Bank    Govt. CoF.     CC  1)  Bank   Govt.      CoF.
Grants for            98.5      10.9              76.3      0.0           17.7    77.5    0.0
subprojects
TA for                15.5      0.0              25.9 2)    0.0                  167.1    0.0
implementation
TA for monitoring      1.5      0.0                1.0      0.0                   66.7    0.0
GOI administration              3.3                         5.3                         160.6
Total                 115.5     14.2              103.2     5.3           17.7    89.3  160.6

  1) CC = Community Contribution
  2) Sum of Cr-3210/UPP (18.4M US$), Ln-3726/Surabaya Urban Development Project (4.7M US$), and Ln-
  3854/Kalimantan Urban Development Project (2.8M US$)




                                                - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable (see sections 4.3 and 4.4 of main report).




                                              - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June 1998                   4    PR. ECONOMIST (1); URBAN
                                               PLANNER (1); ECONOMIST
                                               (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                               EXPERT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal:                  4    PR. ECONOMIST (1);
              September 28,                    DISBURSEMENTS (1);
              1998                             URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                               ENVIRORNMENT (1)
              Negotiations:               4    PR. ECONOMIST (1);
              October 22, 1998                 DISBURSEMENT (1); LEGAL
                                               COUNSEL (1); SOCIAL
                                               SCIENTIST (1)
              Supplementary               3    PR. ECONOMIST (1); SR.
              Negotiations:                    COUNSEL (1); MUNICIPAL
              April 1999                       ENGINEER (1)
              (necessary to
              switch Bank Group
              financing from a
              previously
              negotiated loan to
              an IDA credit)

 Supervision
              06/30/1999                  2    PR. ECONOMIST/TTL (1);           U               S
                                               ENGINEER (1)
              09/24/1999                  3    PR. ECONOMIST/TTL (1);           S               S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               URBAN PLANNER (1)
              02/23/2000                  4    URBAN PLANNER (1); SR.           S               S
                                               OPERATIONS OFF. (1);
                                               COMMUNITY DEV.SPL. (1);
                                               SR. DISBURSEMENT OFF. (1)
              08/30/2000                  4    URBAN PLANNER (TTL) (1);         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                               (1); COMMUNITY DEV SPEC.
                                               (1)
              12/01/2000                  3    URBAN PLANNER (TTL) (1);         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               COMMUNITY DEV SPEC. (1)
              4/23/2001 (MTR)             6    URBAN PLANNER/TTL (1);           S               S
                                               DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                               (1); COMMUNITY DEV. SPEC.
                                               (1); ENGINEER/OPS. OFFICER



                                                - 28 -

                      (1); URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                      MICROFINANCE SPEC. (1)
      10/30/2001    7 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                      OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                      COMM DEV SPECIALIST (1);
                      SENIOR URBAN SPEC (1);
                      DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                      (1); POVERTY SPECIALIST
                      (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                      (1)
      06/17/2002    7 SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);     S    S
                      MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                      COORDINATOR, URB POVTY
                      (1); SOCIAL
                      DEVELOPMT/NGO (1);
                      COMMUNITY
                      DEVELOPMENT (1);
                      DISBURSEMENTS (1);
                      FINANCIAL MGMT (1)
      10/24/2002    9 TTL, URBAN POVTY SPECT        S    S
                      (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                      (1); COMMUNITY
                      DEVELOPMENT (1); URBAN
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      DISBURSMENTS (1);
                      POVERTY SPECIALIST (2);
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
      03/18/2003    6 URB POVERTY SPEC. (1);        S    S
                      MUNICIPAL ENG (1); URBAN
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      COMMUNITY
                      DEVELOPMENT (1);
                      DISBURSEMENTS OFFICER
                      (1); FINANCIAL MGMT (1)
      09/10/2003    9 MUNICIPAL ENG (1); URBAN      S    S
                      SPEC (1); URBAN POVERTY
                      SPEC (1); DISBURSEMENT
                      OFF (1); COMM DEV SPEC
                      (3); FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC
                      (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
      06/04/2004    9 MISSION LEADER& OPSOFF        S    S
                      (1); DISBURSEMENT
                      ANALYST (1); FIN MGMT
                      OFFICER (1); COMM DEV
                      SPECIALIST (3);
                      PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                      POV ALLEV SPECIALIST (1);
                      FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)

ICR
      2/1/2005      9 ENGINEER/OPS.                 S    S
                      OFFICER (1);
                      DISBURSEMENT



                      - 29 -

                                                    ANALYST (1); FIN MGMT
                                                    OFFICER (1);
                                                    COMMUNITY
                                                    DEVELOPMENT
                                                    SPECIALISTS (3);
                                                    PROCUREMENT
                                                    SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    POVERTY ALLEVIATION
                                                    SPECIALIST (1);
                                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                                    (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   32.80                        289.63
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        16.50                         87.60
  Supervision                                136.24                         530.67
  ICR                                           8.39                         24.00
  Total                                      193.93                          931.9
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for prior FYs up to and including 1999.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, April 2002
Financial Assessment Report, March 2002
Mid-Term Review of UPP1, April 2001
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, October 16-30, 2001
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, May 30-June 12, 2002
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, September 19-October 24, 2002
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, February 24-March 18, 2003
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, May 20-June 17, 2003
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, August 11-September 8, 2003
Aide Memoire of UPP 1, January 9, 2004
Aide-memoire of UPP 1, May 2004
Aide Memoire of UPP 2, November 19-26, 2001
Aide Memoire of UPP 2, May 24-June 5, 2002
Aide Memoire of UPP 2, March 17-Apr 4, 2003
Aide Memoire of UPP 2, September 23-October 1, 2003
Aide Memoire of UPP 2, August 2004
Back to Office Report: Mission to Indonesia to review Urban Poverty Program, September 29-October 9,
2003, C. Fallert Kessides.
Draft Paper "A Learning-Implementation Model for Scaling Up Poverty Alleviation: The Indonesia Urban
Poverty Projects", September 2003.
Back to Office Report ­ Thomas Jeff rey Ramin, Senior Social Development Specialist, CDD/SDV
February 24, 2004

Other

Draft Project Manual (General Guidelines and Technical Guidelines)
Draft Handbooks for Project Implementers
Terms of References for NMC, OC, kelurahan facilitators, and community cadres
Evaluation Reports for UPP1 (carried out by Monitoring and Evaluation Consultants)
Final Report of UPP 1 Phase 1
Draft Report of Study on `Capacity for Collective Action and Poverty Alleviation' (Qualitative Evaluation
of UPP 1 Phase 1 in Java)
Draft Report: Local Democracy Matters: Leadership, Accountability and Community Development in
Indonesia, January 2005 a stcy case of UPP phase 2.
Draft Report: UPP Impact Evaluation, CPPS University of Gajahmada, April 2005
Draft Report: UPP impact evaluation in 60 Kelurahans of UPP, Darft March 2004




                                                  - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Future of UPP


Based on the important lessons learned from implementing UPP, GOI has had extensive discussions about
the potential impact of the UPP approach on poverty alleviation, community development and local
governance. As a result, and in conjunction with the preparation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), GOI has developed a 15-year urban poverty alleviation program involving the geographic
expansion of UPP, learning, and consolidation. UPP3, approved on May 17, 2005, will expand UPP
coverage to the rest of the country, making it a fully national program.

The BKM will remain the platform for poverty alleviation at the kelurahan level, where windows for all
other poverty programs can be incorporated. The BKM is expected to become an interlocutor for other
social, environmental and economic programs, as shown in Figure 11 below. The BKM can be used to
facilitate the implementation of various local government programs, as it has already done in many cases.
Collaboration with various social organizations, the private sector and sectoral programs is also being
encouraged. Under BKMs, several implementing units will be established covering social, environmental
and economic aspects.

The BKMs still need time to grow, but a solid foundation has been laid, and once they mature, BKMs will
represent a new facet in community involvement in government. When the government is ready with DAK
(ear-marked grant funds), local governments' own targeted grant mechanism, the strong BKMs can be used
to channel poverty funds in collaboration with the local governments. The scheme below describes the
long-term vision of integrating various poverty programs within the framework of a comprehensive
community development plan at the kelurahan level, and the stages at which the various programs will be
integrated, coordinated or consolidated as necessary. Currently there are many sectoral poverty programs
implemented by the Government, and in the absence of a comprehensive strategy and framework, these
programs are less effective and overlapping. It is envisioned that BKMs will continue to facilitate various
programs in collaboration with the kelurahan leaders.




                                                     - 34 -

Figure 11:




              - 35 -

- 36 -

