Report No. PIC4022
Project Name              Philippines-Second Subic Bay Freeport...
Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Infrastructure
Project ID                PHPA40981
Borrower                  Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SMBA)
Implementing Agency       SBMA
Bldg. 229, Waterfront Road
Subic Bay Freeport Zone
Philippines 2222
Mr. Richard Gordon
Administrator and Chairman
Tel: (63-47) 222-5454
(63-47) 2-7777
Fax: (63-47) 2-5278
Appraisal Date            June, 1996
Board Date                November 26, 1996
Date PID Prepared         November, 1996
A.   Background
1.   The proposed project would be the Bank+s second intervention to
assist the Philippines in converting the U.S. Navy±s former Subic Bay
Naval Base into a freeport. The first Subic Bay Freeport Project
(Subic I: Loan 3745-PH, June 1994) consisted of infrastructure
rehabilitation and upgrading, and technical assistance to strengthen
the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) and develop an
environmental management plan. The Subic freeport has boomed:
investment levels and job creation are more than two years ahead of
the level anticipated under Subic I. As of end-1995, 201 firms had
made investment commitments of aost $1.3 billion. The 123 firms
currently operational have already created 11,821 jobs. Employment
creation is expected to be 39,733 at full operation of these firms
which will far exceed the Subic I projections of 16,300 jobs. SBMA
has turned to the private sector to put much of the infrastructure
inherited when Subic reverted to the Philippines in late 1992 into
economic use and it has entered into long-term leases for the golf
course, the marina, industrial parks, the petroleum, oil and lubricant
facility, recreational facilities, hotel buildings, and some
residential properties.
2.   Base conversion is, however, far from complete.     Several
rehabilitation and construction projects are in progress in
preparation for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) meeting
to be held in Subic Bay in November 1996. The conversion of the
airport hangar into a passenger terminal is underway and this will be
followed by the privatization of airport management. The development
of a master plan for seaport improvement and privatization is ongoing.



The freeport+s rapid expansion has put great pressure on Subic+s
infrastructure and the SBMA+s management capacity, and maintaining the
Freeport+s development momentum will mean moving a number of
investments forward in time. Subic II is designed to meet these
pressures by providing new water supply, power distribution and
transport infrastructure and institutional support to SBMA and the
Subic Bay Ecology Center. A parallel US$11 million project funded by
Japan+s OECF will be used to extend and improve solid waste disposal.
B.   Objectives
3.   Subic I+s objective was to attract private investors to the
Freeport by improving its infrastructure and strengthening SBMA+s
management capacity. The Freeport has, however, grown much more
quickly than anticipated, putting unexpected strains on SBMA+s
management capacity and accelerating its need to evolve
institutionally and provide infrastructure services. The proposed
successor Subic II Project would continue strengthening SBMA+s
capacity to regulate and manage the growth of the Freeport, and
support further infrastructure development+ including SBMA+s initial
venture into partnership with the private sector through a water
supply joint venture.
C.   Description
4.   The project comprises four components:    (a) Institutional Support
(six percent of project costs) to strengthen SBMA and its Ecology
Center, (b) Water Supply (38 percent) to provide treated water in the
secured area, Olongapo City and Subic Town, (c) Power Distribution
(23 percent) to rationalize and consolidate the power distribution
network of Olongapo-SBMA franchise area, and (d) Roads, Bridges and
Related Infrastructure (32 percent) to improve road capacity and
access and related infrastructure. The Project would be carried out
by SBMA over 3 1/2 years (January 1997-July 2000).
D.   Costs and Financing
5.   The total project cost, including contingencies, is US$104
million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of about 62
percent. The project will be financed from two sources. A Bank loan
of US$60.0 million equivalent is projected to cover 100 percent of the
estimated foreign exchange of investment costs plus 100 percent of
local costs for consultants. SBMA will finance the remaining local
costs including interest during construction. SBMA will bear the
foreign exchange and the interest rate risks of the loan.
E.   Implementation
6.   Under Subic I, SBMA has developed a structure wherein the Deputy
Administrator of Finance serves as Project Director supported by
component managers assigned from line positions. This arrangement has
been generally satisfactory and SBMA wishes to maintain it for Subic
II in order to take advantage of the knowledge already gained by core
staff. Based on lessons learned, enhancements would be made to
increase the effectiveness of project management. The Deputy
-2 -



Administrator for Finance would continue to fill the role of Project
Director for the purposes of policy interface with the Bank. An
individual will be assigned to the foreign assisted projects office to
function as Project Manager to perform the day to day tasks of project
management and oversight. The project manager will implement the
project in conjunction with line managers and other staff assigned by
SBMA to supervise specific components.
F.   Sustainability
7.   The Bank-financed Subic I project was designed to rehabilitate
essential infrastructure to attract private investors and provide
institutional support to provide the basis for sustainable growth.
The major part of SBF+s development is being undertaken by the private
sector, which has led to increased inflows of investment, rental and
lease incomes for SBMA, and employment in the freeport. In-migration
has brought about rapid population growth, estimated at 8.7 percent
p.a., and increased demand for essential services. Water distribution
is being privatized. The project would further assist SBMA to respond
to the increased demand for services through privatization support
which would enhance efficiency, improve cost recovery, thereby
providing sustainability. The project would also enhance SBMA+s
managerial, administrative and regulatory capabilities, in order to
create a viable and sustainable institution. Environmental
sustainability would be addressed through ongoing master planning of
the SBF (to take account of the faster than expected growth), and the
proposed project interventions, including the creation of Geographical
Information System as well as continued support to the Ecology Center.
Finally, the improvements in the road network, together with those
initiated under Subic I, will continue to enhance the development of
the SBF.
G.   Lessons Learned From Bank Involvement
8.   SBMA has made significant progress in establishing itself as an
effective and well-structured organization. A well-functioning
Ecology Center has been established, and SBMA+s senior staff are no
longer acting in an ex officio capacity. The staff have remained
dedicated and energetic; the young management team is maturing and
SBMA is becoming more systematic in its operations. Implementation of
Subic I has been highly satisfactory, and private sector
activity/interest remains buoyant in the freeport. The March 1996
Mid-Term Review of progress under Subic I showed that the
project+while generally very well implemented+had been constrained by
SBMA+s lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures. The
proposed project includes technical assistance to strengthen SBMA+s
procurement capability.
H.   Environmental and Social Impacts
9.   The proposed project has been given a +B+ rating and an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been carried out by SBMA+s
Ecology Center, established under Subic I. The EIA shows that most of
the project+s impact will be temporary as a result of construction (as
in the roads and bridges and the renovation of power transmission
- 3 -



lines), and will result in some loss of cover vegetation, tree cover,
and some disturbance to the urban population as power lines are
rehabilitated. The impact of the well field serving the water supply
component has been carefully assessed and satisfactory mitigation
measures are included in the component design under the property
acquisition and compensation plan. The project will also finance the
planting of about 100,000 trees in the Pamatawan watershed to prevent
erosion and maintain the local ecosystem. The power distribution
component will be confined largely to refurbishing and extending
transmission lines. National environmental codes for power
transmission are precise and designed to mitigate adverse effects.
The roads component will have no lasting environmental impact. SBMA
is committed to environmental protection under the legal agreements of
Subic I, which requires the formulation of an environmental management
plan. The plan includes provisions for the development of community-
based forest management, community development and training,
infrastructure improvements, and studies to formalize the rights of
the inhabitants of Subic Forest.
I.   Benefits
10. The proposed project will increase the SBF+s attractiveness to
overseas investors+which should speed job creation and raise SBMA
revenues+provide much-needed services to residents of Olongapo City
and Subic town, and improve administrative efficiency/governance
throughout the Subic Bay metropolitan area. It is estimated that as a
direct result of project interventions SBF will create somewhere
between 40,000 and 50,000 new jobs over the next five years. Of these
new jobs, industry will account for about 80 percent, while tourism-
related services, commerce and administration will share about equally
the remaining 20 percent. Judging from similar development
experiences in the sub-region, incremental export earnings per
industrial employee/year of about US$12,000 can be expected. Thus, by
the turn of the century, some US$600 million in export revenues would
accrue to the Philippines. The type of light industrial activity
likely to take place in SBF will typically attract value added ratios
of around 40 percent, which would translate into net foreign exchange
earnings of about US$240 million by the year 2000. This does not
include income generated from such activities as tourism and commerce.
Direct benefits from improved and expanded provision of services for
water, and power are expected to be substantial. Improving the
administrative and operational efficiency of the power and water
utilities is also a necessary step toward corporatization and eventual
privatization of these utilities. The provision of cleaner drinking
water to the population of Olongapo City and the associated
improvements in the city±s sewerage system, would have an immediate,
beneficial impact on the overall health of the population.
J.   Project Risks
11. There is some risk that the development of the Freeport policy
regime from the Secured Area to the wider freeport boundaries may
encounter political resistance that could lead to slippages in
implementing the revenue-generating water and power components, which
would increase costs and require higher tariffs that would affect
- 4 -



affordability. This is considered unlikely, however, as the central
Government has repeatedly reaffirmed its commitment to Subic+s
development and the project will promote institutional linkages with
neighboring government units through water districts and the joint
power distribution arrangement. In addition, the creation of an
intergovernmental task force to revise the implementing rules and
regulations should strengthen SBMA+s role as the administrator of the
freeport zone. The possibility of losing SBMA leadership, in the form
of its visionary chairman or his managerial front line, also poses a
risk to the project. The inclusion of additional institutional
strengthening elements into Subic II is designed to address this need.
12. Continued flow of lahar (mud flows) from Mt. Pinatubo presents an
additional risk to the project. Flows precipitated by rains have
blocked road access to the SBFZ for domestic tourists and freeport
shopping clientele on occasion. This is being mitigated by raising
the San Fernando-Dinahipihan road and building a high dike to stop
lahar flows. In the longer term, completion of the Northern
Expressway-Tipo link will offer an alternate route. SBMA further
expects to mitigate this risk by improving air links and attracting a
high speed ferry company to provide service between Subic and Manila.
A third airline recently began operations out of Subic, and the ferry
is expected to become operational shortly. The risks of lahar flows
interfering with the physical components of the project, i.e., water
supply, is very low as a result of careful design and site selection.
Contact Point       Aloysius Ordu, EAlIN Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-0445
Fax: (202) 477-2743
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending
December 6, 1996.
-5-



