                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 27282

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (SCL-41110)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                        FOR A

                           SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT




                                      April 14, 2004




Urban & Water Development Sector Unit
Philippines Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Peso
                                       P1.00 = US$ 0.018
                                   US$ 1.00 = P53.32

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC       Bureau of Customs
BTPI      Bataan Technology Part Inc.
CADT      Certificate of Ancestral Domain Title
CAS       Country Assessment Strategy
DBP       Development Bank of Philippines
DENR      Department of Environment and Natural Resources
EC        Ecology Center
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
FAPO      Foreign-Assisted Project Office
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate of Return
GIS       Geographical Information System
GOP       Government of Philippines
IFMS      Integrated Financial Management System
IPDP      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IRR       Implementing Rules and Regulations
JBIC      Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
LGU       Local Government Units
MIS       Management Information Systems
MMS       Maintenance Management System
NBF       Non-Bank Financed
PCO       Pollution Control Officer
PNB       Philippine National Bank
PSD       Power Services Department
PUD       Public Utilities Department
PWG       Public Works Group
PWTSG     Public Works and Technical Support Group
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SBF       Subic Bay Freeport
SBFZ      Subic Bay Freeport Zone
SBMA      Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
SDD       Social Development Division
SEC       Securities and Exchange Commission
SSFFZ     Subic Freeport and Freeport Zone


                             Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                           Country Director:    Mr. Robert Vance Pulley, EACPF
                           Sector Manager:      Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Mr. Aldo Baietti, EWDWS

                                        PHILIPPINES
                              Second Subic Bay Freeport Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P040981                                                  Project Name: Second Subic Bay Freeport Project
Team Leader: Aldo Baietti                                            TL Unit: EWDWS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 14, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Subic Bay Freeport Project                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-41110
   Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (33%); Water supply (30%); Power (28%);
                            Ports, waterways and shipping (7%); Sub-national government
                            administration (2%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other
                            urban development (P); Environmental policies and institutions (S);
                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/06/1995                                     Effective:                           10/15/1997
     Appraisal: 08/19/1996                                         MTR:
      Approval: 11/26/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SUBIC BAY METRO. AUTH./SBMA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russel Cheetham
Country Director:               Robert V. Pulley                               Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   J. Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:             Aldo Baietti                                   Aloysius Ordu
ICR Primary Author:             Aldo Baietti; Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the US$108 million project (Loan of US$60 million) was to continue strengthening the
capacity of Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) to regulate and manage the growth of the Freeport,
and to support further infrastructure development, including SBMA's initial partnership with the private
sector through a water supply joint venture.

The objective was clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social development, and realistic
in scale and scope. It was also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower, considering that the
Freeport had grown much more quickly than anticipated, putting unexpected strains on SBMA's
management capacity and accelerating its need to evolve institutionally and provide infrastructure services.
The project was the Bank's second intervention (The first Subic Bay Freeport Project (Subic I: Loan
3745-PH, June 1994) consisted of infrastructure rehabilitation and upgrading, and technical assistance to
strengthen the SBMA and develop an environmental management plan.) to assist the Philippines in
converting the U.S. Navy's former Subic Bay Naval Base into a freeport.

The Bank's catalytic role in supporting SBMA's institutional strengthening and provision of the
infrastructure services needed to make the Subic Bay Freeport (SBF) attractive to private investors was
fully consistent with the Bank's lending strategy for the Philippines, as outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed at the Board April 4, 1996. The Philippine CAS emphasized investment lending
operations to strengthen infrastructure (power, water supply, solid waste management and transport) to
promote economic growth vital to rapid poverty reduction. The CAS also emphasized private sector
participation in providing infrastructure services. The Freeport had, in a relatively short time, boosted the
Philippines' reputation as an attractive and convenient investment location for major international
corporations. Continued growth was expected with the completion of Taiwanese and Japanese industrial
parks. Subic had thus become a significant growth pole for the Philippine economy, generating important
foreign exchange revenues and creating jobs.

The Freeport's very success thus meant, however, that its need to provide infrastructure had grown more
rapidly than anticipated. Without the investments proposed under this project, water supply, electric power
and transport constraints could slow Subic's growth momentum and harm its competitive position. The
transport rehabilitation/upgrading investments were the most critical: without them an estimated 13,000 to
16,000 new jobs would have been lost over a period of five years.

The project envisioned the following social and environmental benefits that justified its implementation:

·        The project would increase the SBF's attractiveness to overseas investors and encourage existing
investors to expand their operations. It was estimated that as a direct result of project interventions, SBF
would create many new jobs most of which would occur in industry with the balance in tourism-related
services, commerce and administration. Judging from similar development experiences in the sub-region,
incremental export earnings per industrial employee/year of about US$12,000 were expected. Thus, by the
turn of the century, SBMA estimated that some US$600 million in export revenues would accrue to the
Philippines.

·        The project was also expected to provide much needed services to residents of Olongapo City and
Subic town, and improve administrative efficiency/governance throughout the Subic Bay metropolitan area.




                                                     - 2 -

·         The project would also improve the administrative and operational efficiency of the power and
water utilities which was a necessary step toward corporatization and eventual privatization of these
utilities. The provision of cleaner drinking water to the population of Olongapo City and the associated
improvements in the city's sewerage system, would have an immediate, beneficial impact on the overall
health of the population.

The project was complex and demanding for the Borrower, because under four components, the project
involved multifarious activities in various areas, such as management, environment, water, power,
privatization, and institution building. It was also challenging in terms of the institutional development of
SBMA.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Soon after entering effectiveness on October 15, 1997, the project encountered a number problems which
caused implementation delays and ultimately resulted in a substantive restructuring and cancellation of
several components. First, the project was delayed by 11 months because the SBMA had issued a negative
pledge against its assets, breaching the conditions of the Subic I Loan Agreement. More significantly,
following the May 1998 Presidential elections in the Philippines, the new administration removed the
SBMA chairman from office. The resistance of the outgoing SBMA chairman to accept this change in
leadership, led to: (a) major civil disturbances within the Subic and neighboring area as many residents
were loyal to the outgoing chairman; (b) a loss of key management and staff within the SBMA; and (c)
political tension with the adjacent Municipality of Olongapo City which spilled over into the project, since
two components required the city government's support to successfully implement.

The change in SBMA's leadership significantly altered the cordial relationship that was enjoyed previously
between the SBMA and Olongapo City, with severe consequences, most notably, to the power and water
project components. Concerning the power component, Olongapo City was no longer willing to merge the
Public Utilities Department (PUD) of the City with its equivalent Department in the SBMA. For the water
component, the political tension made it difficult for the SBMA to secure support for the bulk water supply
in the Pamatawan area of Ambles. As a consequence, test drilling and other concessions and agreements
were frustrated and lost, resulting again in significant delays. With these recurring problems, on March
2000, the SBMA requested that the Bank restructure these components and focus only on areas that were
fully within the SBMA's jurisdiction.

In an attempt to assist SBMA in improving project performance and to assure the accomplishment of the
development objectives, SBMA and the Bank agreed in June 2000 to a 7-point action plan, including a
restructuring of the project. SBMA prepared a restructuring proposal endorsed by the Department of
Finance (guarantor). The restructuring was approved by the Board on June 1, 2001, and the Loan closing
date was extended by the Bank to June 30, 2002. The restructured loan essentially cancelled the water and
much of the power component for which the SBMA had needed the cooperation of Olongapo City, for an
overall reduction in the total Loan from $60 million to $36.15 million.

With the amendment, President's Notification entitled `Philippines ­ Second Subic Bay Freeport Project
(Loan No. 4111-PH) Restructuring and Amendment to the Loan Agreement', dated June 1, 2001 to
restructure the project, the development objective was revised: "to assist the SBF to attract and maintain
private investors while remaining economically viable and environmentally sound". The revision of the
development objective was not viewed as material as the spirit of the original objective was maintained.
Additional emphasis was however placed on the environmental sustainability of the SBF for which the



                                                      - 3 -

project components in this area were expanded. In addition, some qualifying text referring to water and
power was deleted as those components were cancelled. In order to complete the works left unfinished by
June 30, 2002 and achieve the development objective, the Loan closing date was further extended to June
30, 2003.


3.3 Original Components:

Originally, the project consisted of the following four components. The components were reasonably
related to achieving the project's objectives.

Component I: Institutional Strengthening (US$4.6 million: 5% of the total project cost)

This component comprised: (a) capacity building on freeport policy through a package of short- and
long-term technical assistance in key areas including customs, taxation, and incentives; (b) human
resources management assistance to assess SBMA's skills mix needs vis-à-vis its corporate objectives and
to develop staff training programs; (c) commercialization, privatization, and planning support to further
facilitate conversion through commercialization and privatization measures; (d) studies related to issues
affecting the competitiveness of the SBF and its attractiveness to investors; (e) technical assistance support
to SBMA's Foreign-Assisted Project Office (FAPO) for two advisors to strengthen its capability in
procurement and financial management; and (f) support to SBMA's Ecology Center (EC) to strengthen the
Center's capacity for environmental management, monitoring and regulation, and impact assessment.

Component II: Water Supply (US$32.6 million: 35.6% of the total project cost)

This component was designed to increase the quantity of treated water available in the Secured Area,
Olongapo City, and Subic Town through a public-private joint venture. The component included: (a)
detailed engineering and the development of the Pamatawan well field; (b) construction of approximately
7,600 meters of raw water transmission main from the Pamatawan well field to a water treatment plant at
Castillejos; (c) construction of electrical power transmission lines to the well field and treatment plant; and
(d) construction of a water treatment plant and a booster station.

Component III: Power Distribution (US$26.1 million: 28.5% of the total project cost)

This component aimed to merge the Olongapo City Public Utilities Department (PUD) and SBMA's Power
Services Department (PSD). The component consisted of: (a) construction of overhead and underground
sub-transmission circuits to effect the interconnection of the Olongapo and SBMA franchise area; (b)
installation of 13.8 kV cables to replace damaged cables and to enhance the environment of prime
waterside locations in SBMA's area; (c) rehabilitation and extension of LV systems, including replacement
of 4.1 kV system in Olongapo City; (d) provision of facilities and equipment for the integrated power
distribution network; (e) engineering services for the supervision of installation, including strengthening the
technical capability of the merged operations; and (f) technical assistance, training, and management
services to establish commercial operation in the integrated organization.

Component IV: Roads, Bridges and Related Infrastructure (US$28.1 million: 30.7% of the total project
cost)

The components consisted of: (a) road improvement, including: (i) widening Rizal Highway to four lanes
plus turning lanes from Kalalake Bridge to the SBMA Expressway; (ii) widening Argonaut Highway from



                                                      - 4 -

the Industrial Park (Phase I) Access Road to Boton Road to three lanes; (iii) widening the link from Tipo
Road to Binitican Bridge to four lanes, and building a new SBMA expressway extension from Binitican
Bridge to join Argonaut Highway near Boton bridge; and (iv) improving signalization and channelization at
key intersections in the SBF; (b) rehabilitation and retrofitting four existing bridges-Kalalake, Malawaan,
Boton and Binitican-to meet the latest seismic design codes; (c) provision for a new bridge to replace the
Kalaklan bridge; (d) carrying out a road maintenance study; (e) a road alignment study for the SBFZ
By-Pass to improve traffic flow in the long term in the freeport; (f) improvements in related infrastructure;
and (g) consulting services for detailed engineering and construction supervision for the civil works
components and a Road Advisor (technical assistance) to strengthen the PWG's capability to implement
this component of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

As explained in Section 4.1, the project's activities under the restructured design consisted of the following:


Institutional Strengthening Component ($5.6 million)

The focus and overall objectives of the existing institutional strengthening component were not changed in
the restructured project. However, two additional areas of expenditure were included under this component.
First was the inclusion of funding for the development and implementation of an integrated financial
management system (IFMS). This system should have been installed under Subic I but implementation
delays, the change in SBMA's administration, and an overly ambitious program resulted in little
institutional development being retained by SBMA and the loss of much of the hardware and software
financed under the first project. The revised plan for Subic II involved a much simpler system.

Second, the restructured project included an additional provision for consulting services to the Ecology
Center to introduce an incentive-based pollution and environmental management system. The consultants
were also to assist the Ecology Center in procuring pollution monitoring and other equipment and in
preparing a work plan for the period ending June 30, 2002, the closing date of the Loan following
restructuring.

Water Supply Component ($0.0 million)

Political changes, also meant that the original well field (Pamatawan) had to be abandoned and new test
wells were planned at nearby Dinalupihan field. For these reasons, this component was dropped from the
restructured loan. Inordinate delays in project implementation resulting from inadequate staffing and
mobilization of design and other consultants had meant that it would be impossible to carry out the
proposed works prior to the original loan closing date or even the revised closing date of June 30, 2002.

Power Component ($4.5 million)

SBMA had identified power distribution within the SBF as a priority for privatization. As this was in line
with the Bank's philosophy and SBMA's corporate development strategy, SBMA requested to cancel this
component prior to commencing any major works within the sector and instead focus on privatizing the
system. This request was consistent with the financial and economic implications of Olongapo City's
decision to withdraw from the proposed joint development of a power distribution system.

The major advantages for SBMA under the privatization of power distribution included: (a) major savings



                                                      - 5 -

in capital works and in resulting debt; (b) immediate access to expertise which would address system
improvement needs and current power reliability problems; (c) income from the lease or purchase of
existing distribution assets; (d) immediate savings from system losses; and (e) the partial resolution of the
conflict of interest resulting from SBMA's role as the distributor, consumer, and regulator of electricity in
the SBF.

In addition, investors within the SBF were experiencing deteriorating power reliability. Brownouts were
becoming more frequent and as a result of reduced economic activity in the SBF, SBMA's income had
been reduced and cash flow had become problematic. As a consequence it lacked funds to undertake
emergency works to guarantee uninterrupted power supply.

The restructured project addressed this problem by financing the procurement and installation of the
equipment and works necessary to remedy immediate system needs. Additionally, it also included funding
to assist SBMA with the privatization of the power distribution network within the SBF.

Roads and Bridges and Related Infrastructure ($30.7 million)

Component changes included significant additions to airport works and maintenance, and the preparation of
a maintenance management system for the airport and port hard-standings. It included the partial
resurfacing of the main landing strip, the development of a comprehensive airport maintenance plan, and
the supply and installation of equipment to improve airport safety standards.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived. As mentioned in
the earlier section, the project objective was consistent with the CAS and the government priorities and met
the critical needs of SBF. Since SBMA had already developed the technical capacity, and had
demonstrated serious commitment to the project, the quality of design was generally adequate to meet the
project's overriding objective.

As the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the project's supervision observed, the project focused
on improving the provision and quality of infrastructure services, as prerequisite to attracting private
investors to Subic Bay, and on the institutional capacity of SBMA to manage the activities and processes
leading to that. The project was given a "B" environmental rating and an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) was carried out by SBMA's Ecology Center established under Subic I. The EIA was reviewed by the
Bank and was found to be satisfactory.

The quality at entry, however, could have been further enhanced had the loan from Development Bank of
Philippines (DBP) been identified during appraisal as part of the due diligence of SBMA's finances, so that
the project could have avoided the eleven-month effectiveness delay caused by the Negative Pledge (for
details see Section 5.3).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. Despite the early implementation problems, which culminated in the project's restructuring,
the SBMA managed to get the project back on track and achieve its development objective, in addition to
realizing positive outcomes in a number of areas. For example, the project contributed in strengthening



                                                      - 6 -

SBF as an investor-friendly place, creating new jobs, increasing the revenue of SBF, transforming Subic as
an environmentally sound tourist destination, and supporting infrastructure development. In addition, the
project was also instrumental in promoting substantial institutional development on SBMA, and making the
SBF a well-managed and attractive freeport in the region. These achievements are demonstrated by the
following.

(A) Strengthening SBMA's capacity to regulate and manage the growth of the Freeport.

(i) Increasing SBF's attractiveness to investors. The presence of the World Bank and the number of
activities it financed for infrastructure and institutional strengthening allowed the SBMA to successfully
manage a significant expansion of the SBF. After a slight drop in investor confidence resulting from the
Asia crisis, investment and productive activity flourished. Major locators such as Federal Express (FedEx)
investing in the expansion of the Subic Bay International Airport demonstrates such confidence. This is
also borne by the fact that, investments in SBF increased from $2.59 billion in 1998 to $4.16 billion as
of June 30, 2003, and the number of companies investing in the SBF increased from 304 to 640 during
the same period. The total export value of goods produced at Subic more than doubled from $555.9
million in 1998 to $1.32 billion in 2002. The number of ships calling to Subic Bay increased from 1,373
in 1998 to 1,764 in 2002. Besides its industrial importance to the country, Subic is now a major tourism
destination both domestically and in the region and a major hub for academic institutes and learning
centers.

It is unlikely that without the World Bank presence, the higher level of investment, as expressed by major
locators, would have materialized. After the departure of United States Navy in November 1992, Subic
and neighboring municipalities, particularly Olongapo, were left with no significant economic base to
justify large investments. With the arrival of the Bank, Subic was perceived as a more credible investment
base that led to its initial but moderate growth. The Freeport prospered and achieved substantial economic
importance during the second project, beyond what had even been contemplated during preparation. The
Subic Freeport is now poised for substantial additional growth with the new port development and the
implementation of the Subic-Clark economic corridor.

In September 2003 SBMA earned the ISO 9001: 2000 Certificate of Excellence for Investor Servicing and
Locator Assistance. The Certification was issued after key authorities of SBMA such as Human Resource
Management Department, Investment Processing Department, Locator Registration and Licensing
Department, Labor Department, Seaport and Airport Departments and several other departments passed
the strict audit compliance procedures conducted by the TUV Product Service (Germany), the certification
body implementing the standards of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). This
certification again attests to the reputation Subic Bay had gained as an `investor-friendly' location, its
adherence to an environmentally friendly ambience and management performance, all directly or indirectly
supported by the project.

(ii) Creating new jobs and increasing revenue. During the second project the SBMA succeeded in
creating more jobs than what had been originally lost with the departure of the US military. Between 1998
and 2003 the total number of persons employed within the Freeport increased from 7,756 in 1998 to
53,017 as of June 30, 2003. Likewise, during the same period revenues of the SBF increased from Ph P
82.5 million to Ph P 226.2 million.

(iii) Increase in tourism. The project facilitated in transforming Subic as a major environmentally-friendly
tourist destination in the Philippines. The total number of tourists visiting the SBF increased from 2.35



                                                        - 7 -

million in 1998 to 7.97 million in 2002.

(iv) Institutional Strengthening.

Freeport Policy and Regulatory Strengthening:

SBMA achieved progress in policy and regulatory strengthening, even though the strained relations with the
local government unit (LGU) of neighboring Olongapo City limited progress to a certain extent,
particularly in the realm of LGU interface.

         (a) Building interface with LGUs. The institutional strengthening (IS) program succeeded in
devising and regularizing a forum in which LGU and SBMA officials exchanged information about
infrastructure investment plans and land use plans, and for preparing population, household, and
employment forecasts.

         (b) Improving, revising, and operationalizing amended implementing rules and regulations
(IRRs). IRRs were amended to enhance incentives for regional headquarter operations. Draft IRR
amendments were prepared, and a back-up study and participatory workshops were executed to rationalize
incentives and registration/licensing for enterprises. A committee was formed to facilitate adoption of
amended IRRs by the Board of Directors. Improvements were achieved in the regulation of labor and
occupational health and safety.

         (c) Customs Administration. The IS component catalyzed the formation of an excellent interface
between the Bureau of Customs (BOC) and the SBMA. Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) between the
two agencies, collaborative public relations efforts, and re-engineering customs procedures and
computerize systems via BOT arrangement (Joint Development Agreement signed between BOC, SBMA,
and private investor), are among the most concrete and tangible evidence of this progress.

         (d) Taxation. In the realm of taxation, the SBMA made a substantial improvement when it revised
the IRRs in late 1999 to expand incentives relevant to regional headquarter operations of Freeport
Enterprises. Another major improvement was achieved when the SBMA sought to change its tax status as
a government-owned-and-controlled corporation, which resulted in the exemption of SBMA from taxes,
thereby improving its financial performance and to a certain extent, its autonomy.

         (e) Economic Model. A financial model was developed, and updated to reflect the impacts of
privatization, organizational restructuring, and other key changes. SBMA staff were trained on the use of
the model and as a result, its staff were able to identify the lower economic benefit of
commercial/warehousing activities as a key issue (fastest growing market segment in the Freeport, but one
that generates the least benefits in terms of jobs, investment, and exports, while absorbing large quantities
of space). Attention to this led to a consensus in favor of targeting other sectors in the context of marketing
efforts.

         (f) Public Services Regulation. The project supported capacity strengthening for the SBMA in
public services regulation, which was largely applied in the area of water utility regulation. The SBMA
institutional strengthening project provided technical support to the Subic Bay Water Regulatory Board
(SBWRB), including training, and a detailed review of Subic Water's franchise agreement. The consultants
also recommended to the SBMA to create a semi-autonomous multi-utility regulatory board (electricity,
telecommunications, public transport, etc.). After consideration on this, the SBMA opted instead to create
new internal departments, or designate existing ones, to undertake more focused attention on regulating


                                                       - 8 -

public services.

Commercialization and Planning:

The greatest amount of progress occurred in the area of physical planning, infrastructure planning,
strategic planning, and property commercialization. Limited progress occurred in the realm of privatization.


         (a) Strategic Planning. The Strategic Plan, officially adopted by SBMA's Board of Directors in
late 2000, represented an important milestone for SBMA's goal of strengthening itself as an institution.
This plan has become the overall blueprint for the Freeport's development. The process of developing it led
to a better appreciation of the various strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats faced by the SBMA.
It also facilitated greater interaction between the SBMA management and stakeholders such as locators, the
Board of Directors, and key players within national government agencies. While progress on implementing
many parts of the Strategic Plan was slow, there were good results in some areas of the organization, and
the Strategic Plan document remains an important reference.

         (b) Organizational Restructuring. Early on, the SBMA undertook a significant change in the
structure of senior management. A singular Chief Operating Officer position was replaced by three Senior
Deputy Administrator positions (Operations, Services, and Business Development). This change helped to
distribute the workload more evenly, lessening the burden on the senior manager charged with oversight of
operations. In addition, the most significant organizational change was the establishment of a Privatization
and Commercialization Office (PCO) and the formation of a task force, Special Operations Land
Disposition to improve real estate disposition. Other changes recommended by the consultants, including
restructuring SBMA activities into five distinct functional areas (internal services, external/municipal
services, regulatory services, asset management services, and promotional services) have not yet been acted
upon by SBMA management, although these changes do remain as medium to long-term goals within the
Board-approved SSEFZ Strategic Plan 2001-2005.

         (c) Land Use Plans. SBMA successfully built up its capacity for developing land use plans. A
total of four area land use plans were developed, and a schedule was outlined for formal adoption of a
Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Zoning guidelines were developed to ensure proper development patterns
according to land use plans. Beyond the "secured area" of the Freeport, progress was also made in
coordinating infrastructure and development plans with nearby towns, particularly Dinalupihan and
Hermosa, which benefited from good relations with senior SBMA management, and were in a position to
more directly benefit from activities associated with the Subic-Clark development corridor concept.

         (d) Infrastructure Plan. SBMA brought together all infrastructure project plans together into a
comprehensive infrastructure plan, complete with a physical map (produced by the SPO with the GIS
system that had successfully been implemented under the project), capital budget estimates, and schedules.
This represented a substantial achievement, one that should improve SBMA's ability to properly oversee
the development of world-class infrastructure.

         (e) Privatization Studies & Business Plan for Privatization and Commercialization Office. This
work provided an important starting point for SBMA privatization efforts, including a reinterpretation and
more precise definition of SBMA's legal mandate. Although most attention subsequently focused on only
one of the four transactions identified as priorities (power distribution), the groundwork should prove
useful to future SBMA administrations with less political constraints to their ability to increase
restructuring and private sector participation in the SBMA. The study conducted on the potential for



                                                       - 9 -

outsourcing solid waste management proved useful to the Freeport Services Corporation, in that it
identified areas where efficiencies could be improved.

(vi) Ecology Center. The project facilitated the strengthening of the Ecology Center. The reorganization
is now fully complete with the designation of environmental officers throughout the mainstream
organization (each department has at least one officer) in line with the Bank's recommendations.
Designated environmental officers are involved in putting together the environmental components, inclusive
of environmental assessments for SBMA's internal projects and in ensuring that environmental concerns
are properly addressed within their designated areas. This move will build the capacity of the different
departments to take on the responsibility of assuming operational roles such as, operating the landfill, so as
to allow the Ecology Center to focus on its planning and regulatory functions. The Ecology Center is
proceeding on other issues related to protection of the coastal and forest areas, by establishing constituency
groups with neighboring communities. Besides the work with the Aeta (see Indigenous Peoples paragraph
below) and other neighboring communities for protecting the forest areas, the Ecology Center is working
with neighboring municipalities to strengthen enforcement against illegal fishing. Despite these advances,
however, more work needs to be done in developing a strong constituency within the boundaries of the
Freeport area.

         Social Fencing. The project made significant progress in the concept of social fencing Based on an
Initial Environmental Examination prepared for the sub-Project, "social fencing" was recommended as an
appropriate supplement to physical fencing/structures for specific areas where responsibility for securing
the SBFZ jurisdiction and protecting the forest reserve can be shared with local communities. Using this
strategy, instead of merely erecting physical barriers, SBMA established partnerships with communities in
securing areas from encroachment or unauthorized passage with or without the presence of physical
barriers, hence the term "social fencing." This was accomplished by organizing, educating and mobilizing
community groups to assume responsibility for securing target areas. Following its successful
implementation, "Social Fencing" was subsequently expanded as a separate subcomponent under the
Ecology Center to resolve a number of implementation projects.

In the two initial sites (Tipo and Bangal), SBMA entered into a Community-Based Forest Management
Agreement with the communities in these areas to formalize the tenurial arrangement for the utilization,
protection and management of a total area of 209 hectares (136.6 ha in Bangal and 72.6 ha in Tipo) within
the secured area of the Freeport. This directly benefited a total of 60 farmer-beneficiaries who were
organized into two farmers' associations duly registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). Community Resource Management Plans have been prepared in these sites and training and
consultations have been conducted to prepare those involved.

There is a great sense of ownership, appreciation and participation of the farmer-beneficiaries to the project
and other similar concerns (i.e., forest fire prevention and management). The social fencing project has
also improved the social acceptability of the ongoing perimeter fence sub-project in communities adjacent
to the secured area. In addition, Ecology Center is working with two other communities, namely, Mabiga
of Hermosa in the province of Batan which has benefited 53 farmer beneficiaries (443.29 ha), and in
Minaga in Morong which has benefited 36 farmer communities (128.61 ha).

         Protection of the Environment and Social Participation. Progress was made with the mangroves
situationSome mangroves which were inadvertently damaged during the construction of Rizal Highway
were replaced by the SBMA. The SBMA reported that the replanting program has been very successful,
with the reforestation of 1.33 hectares (26,000 propagules), and the restoration of affected areas amounting



                                                      - 10 -

to 0.33 hectares (8,811 propagules). Given the success of the program, the replanted areas have already
been turned over to SBMA's responsibility.

         Indigenous Peoples (Aetas of Pastolan Village in Subic Forest). As part of the indigenous
peoples development plan (IPDP), in December 2000 the Aytas community was awarded a Certificate of
Ancestral Domain Title (CADT), a long-term tenurial instrument that affords the Aetas the status of
resource manager and stakeholder over 4,387 hectares. The Aytas of Subic Forests are the first indigenous
group in the Philippines to be granted a CADT.

Under the IPDP, SBMA has been assisting the Pastolan Aytas to acquire their ancestral land domain title
and providing livelihood projects like broiler production, freshwater fishponds, demonstration farms and
reforestation, as well as other agriculture-based products. The IPDP is also providing infrastructure
projects such as multi-purpose training center, and a level-two water system. The Pastolan Aytas are now
actively participating in national and international fora on Indigenous People's rights, policy advocacies
and the promotion of indigenous culture.

Further, in early 2001, the Social Development Division (SDD) of the Ecology Center, expanded its
assistance to the Indigenous People (IP) of Kanawan, Morong of the province of Bataan. The Kanawan
Aytas, like the Pastolan Aytas, claim to have been relocated to Kanawan, Morong just outside the
boundary of the Freeport in 1976, but they were previously scouring the forests of the Naval Magazine
Area of the Freeport and had lived in Sitio Timac, Baranga Mabayo, Morong which is part of the protected
area of the Freeport.

The SDD to date is assisting them to get formal recognition from SBMA management as legitimate IPs
with ancestral rights over the forest areas of the Naval Magazine area. Their objective is to gain access to
their traditional hunting and fishing grounds in the Naval Magazine forest, employment opportunities and
livelihood assistance -- similar to the Pastolan Aytas. Thus far, 15 Kanawan Aytas have been employed
as forest rangers and ground maintenance workers under SBMA.

In the absence of project funds intended for Kanawan Aytas, SDD helped the community link-up with
donor agencies and philanthropists. One anonymous donor took interest and provided the community with
the following assistance:

·        Regular medical and dental mission conducted every two months since July 2002 and benefiting
         135 individual Kanawan Aytas
·        Monthly feeding program for Kanawan toddlers
·        Electrification of elementary school and provision of school supplies
·        Donation of church benches

SDD staff also visit the community at least once a month to provide assistance during community
meetings. The thrust is to help them establish linkages with as many agencies (government and
non-government) as possible and integrate them with mainstream society. Slowly, community
leaders by themselves are now networking with various institutions to request urgent basic
services for the community.

(vii) Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS). The IFMS was commenced, and significantly
implemented under Subic I. Due to delays in implementation under the first project, the completion of the
IFMS subcomponent was added to Subic II. As of April 2004, the system is 90-95% complete, with



                                                      - 11 -

loading and data conversion at 80% complete. Phase I includes the following modules: Project
Management is 100% completed, Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable, and General Ledger are all
completed at 85%. On-going activities include monitoring and providing assistance on data entry for
Project Management while data/ beginning balances of Accounts Receivable and Payable were already
posted to their respective subsidiary ledgers. For the General Ledger, transactions from October to
December 2003 are being loaded while January to March 2004 transactions are already encoded using the
system.

Phase II is comprised of modules for HRM/Payroll and Fixed Assets and Inventory Management. System
design and design of these two modules are in progress. Preparation of Purchasing and Cash Management
modules will commence after Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable modules are completed.

(B) Supporting further infrastructure development.

(i) Privatization of Power Distribution. The project financed consultants to assist SBMA in the
privatization of its power distribution system. It hired a privatization specialist, a financial specialist, a
power engineer, and a regulatory specialist to undertake privatization and validate previous studies on
privatization. The team of consultants assisted SBMA in the formulation of tender documents, and in the
conduct of bidding process to bring private sector to rehabilitate, operate, manage, and maintain the power
distribution system in Subic Bay. In May 2003, SBMA signed a Distribution Management Service
Agreement with a private utility company and in October 2003, the responsibility for power distribution
was handed over to this private company. Under the privatized distribution, the electricity rate has been
reduced by P0.40/kwh for the next five years.

(ii) Emergency Rehabilitation of Power Distribution. Emergency rehabilitation financed by the project is
expected to improve the existing distribution system by minimizing the tripping of power lines. This, in
turn, would provide benefits to locators/investors, especially in terms of increased productivity and
efficiency.

(iii) Expansion of Airport Apron. SBMA's expansion of 3.74 ha airport apron will allow the airport to
accommodate eight additional MD-11 wide-bodied cargo aircraft of FedEx from the present 12 planes. The
airport apron expansion is considered one of the vital components for the long-term economic development
of SBF.

(iv) Rizal-Argonaut Road. The newly constructed Rizal-Argonaut Road will provide better access to
industrial and commercial cargo in the Subic, and ultimately once the Subic-Clark-Tarlac Toll Road is
constructed, will shorten travel time between Subic and Clark.

(v) Installation of modern navigational aids such as touchdown zone lighting, radar, and global
positioning system financed by the project will adequately compensate for Subic Bay Airport's short
runway.


4.2 Outputs by components:

(A) Institutional Strengthening Component.

        Policy and Regulation: See Section 4.1




                                                     - 12 -

         Financial. This component was cancelled by the SBMA Ad Hoc Management Committee on
December 12, 2000. However, a number of planned subcomponent activities were carried out prior to this
including:

·        A diagnostic of SBMA financial management was carried out to asses policies, plans, programs,
procedures, staffing, and overall/relative performance.

·        Assistance was provided to the SBMA Finance Group to develop an IFMS financial proposal (for
inclusion in Subic II Project), to determine current liquidity, update cash flow projections, etc.

         Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS). Three months of training were given to the
development team, which consisted of MIS staff and other department personnel.

·        FMS Hardware and Software. All hardware and software were successfully installed prior to
completion of the contract.

         Ecology Center.

·        Training was given to 35 EC staff and environmental officers on the Fundamentals of
Environmental Management and 25 EC staff and pollution control officers on Enforcement and
Compliance Capacity Building. Additional training was given to 143 people on eco-industrial development,
environmental management system, cleaner production, pollution prevention, and CEO Forum.

·        Three packages of GIS software including one upgrade, and monitoring equipment were procured.

·        EC also helped in the organization of pollution control officers for industries and is acting as
advisor and helping in planning regular activities. The EC also gave the officers training on environmental
management system and cleaner production and orientation on sustainable development.

·        EC organized community forest fire brigades and gave them training on fire fighting and
incorporated forest fire protocols with forest rangers and fire department. Consequently, the incidence of
forest fire has been substantially reduced.

The training provided to the EC staff and Environmental Officers of other SBMA departments have helped
to improve their understanding of the basic environmental management concepts and tools. The EC staff
primarily involved in the implementation of environmental regulations, are now confidently able to
implement their mandated tasks especially on monitoring and environmental enforcement. Likewise, the
Environmental Officers who are primarily tasked to oversee the environmental concerns of their respective
departments, have become aware of the environmental impacts of their activities.

The Pollution Control Officers (PCOs) of the locator companies are now fully aware of the established
environmental standards and regulations being implemented within the Freeport Zone. They are more
aware of Environmental Management Systems and how to improve their operations relative to pollution
control and cleaner production. Subsequently, the PCOs are now organized into an association to have a
better coordination among the companies, sharing of information and even technical knowledge on
operations. In line with the program of EC to encourage self-regulation among the locators, the PCOs are
currently closely coordinating with the EC on their effort to comply with all the environmental
requirements.



                                                     - 13 -

The CEO Forum was conducted to promote awareness among the managers and administrators of
industries on the benefits of industrial-ecology in their business operations. This program was geared
towards encouraging the participation of the industries in environmental compliance and promotion of
self-regulation as a business tool for efficiency.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

(B) Power Component: $4.30 million

The project financed emergency rehabilitation of distribution lines, including the following:

(i)     Remy field substation consisting of two 20 MA, 69'13.8 kV transformers: (a) replacement of the
        existing 13.8 kV switch-gear; (b) rehabilitation of the 69 kV switchboard; and (c) replacement of
        the existing station batteries and battery;

(ii)    Subic substation consisting of two 25 MVA, 69/13.8 U' transformers: (a) installation of a new 69
        kV Power Circuits Breaker with two 69kV isolation switches (disconnect switches); (b) installation
        of three single pole lighting arresters rated 69kV; (c) installation of a neutral grounding reactor for
        each of the two 25 MVA transformers; (d) installation of potential transformers and current
        transformers for metering; and

(iii)   Overhead 13.8 kV distribution system: (a) replacement of 120 rotten wood poles with concrete
        poles; (b) installation of two 3-phase circuit reclosers and seven sectionalizers for the 13.8kV lines;
        and (c) replacement of bare overhead lines with insulated aluminum conductors in the wooded
        areas.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

(C) Roads and Bridges Component $21.40 million

Most of the subcomponents were satisfactorily implemented making the Roads and Bridges component the
largest component with regard to disbursements.

(i)     Subic Bay International Airport Improvement. This sub-component was satisfactorily completed
in April 2003.

(ii)    Rizal-Argonaut and SBF Expressway Extension was completed successfully in accordance with
the approved revised designs. Included in this "works" program were the replacement bridges designed
under the Bridge Retrofitting program.

(iii)   Security Fencing Works was 85% complete at the time of project closing. Subsequently, SBMA
completed the remaining activities using its own funds.

(iv)    Kalaklan Bridge. Detailed engineering design was successfully completed. However, SBMA
subsequently cancelled this activity because of the delay in the acquisition of right-of-way and the
consequent inability to complete the work before the project closing.




                                                     - 14 -

(v)      Maintenance Management System (MMS). Works were successfully designed but the planned
"works" program was not completed at the time of project closing. SBMA considers these works
subcomponents to be of critical importance, and therefore implementation of the works based on the
designs completed under Subic II are being discussed for SBMA funding.

(vi)      Metes and Bounds Study and the GIS Study. Both studies were completed and the SBMA is fully
utilizing the end products like maps and GIS.

(vii)    Training was conducted on MMS for local engineers of SBMA.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The SAR conducted economic analysis only on the water supply and power distribution components which
were cancelled or significantly modified with the restructuring of the project. No specific economic
analysis was carried out in the SAR for the Road and Bridges component because the civil works that were
programmed under the project contributed to the overall improvement of the Freeport rather than for any
discrete activity for which the related benefits could be defined. Likewise, after the restructuring, the
power component involved only a minor emergency rehabilitation and maintenance and assistance to
SBMA with the privatization of power distribution network. For these same reasons, the ICR evaluation
focused its assessment on the overall economic development of the SBF as demonstrated by the following
performance indicators:

                                                      1998                            June 30, 2003
 Investments                                      $2.59 billion                        $4.16 billion
 No. of companies invested in                          304                                 640
 SBF
 Export value of goods produced                  $555.9 million                 $1.32 billion (in 2002)
 at Subic
 Total number of employees in                         7756                              53, 017
 the SBF
 Total number of tourists visiting                2.35 million                  7.97 million (in 2002)
 the SBF
Number of ships calling to Subic                     1,373                           1,764 (in 2002)
Bay
 Revenue increase                                  PhP 82.5                         PhP 226.2 million




4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact. For example:



                                                     - 15 -

·        SBMA has reasonably succeeded in regularizing its staff so that when there is a change of
administration, there will be only a minimum chance of key staff members leaving the organization when
the current chairman leaves his position. It is worth mentioning that, while in 1998 SBMA had only 82
regular staff out of its approved staff strength of 1818, by October 31, 2003, 970 staff had been
regularized and 369 are expected to be regularized in the next few months (coinciding with the term of the
current chairman) SBMA still has about 475 people working under contracts since they do not
have the required qualifications for regularization such as passing the required civil service
examination and meeting additional educational requirements.

Those staff who are regularized and were involved with the project have gained valuable experience on
various aspects of project implementation and their continued working in SBMA will be a valuable asset
when undertaking future projects. For instance, Institutional Strengthening training received by SBMA
staff in carrying out their post-project activities such as, the preparation of the land use plan for the BTPI
campus in Morong, customer service, value orientation, and supervisory development course for
middle-level management has contributed to institutional development. For details see Section 4.1.

·        Another major institutional development impact of the project has been on the Ecology Center,
which has been adequately empowered and is now moving forward with a clear sense of direction. For
details see Section 4.

·        The project has also resulted in the institutionalization of the Foreign-Assisted Project Office
(FAPO) with its enhanced capability in project management and streamlined procedures on procurement,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation.

·        The implementation of a computerized maintenance management system (MMS) is very useful for
the efficient functioning of seaport and airport, even though SBMA has only limited personnel to manage
MMS.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Asian Financial Crisis. The 1997 Asian financial crisis and the resulting devaluation of the Peso had a
major impact on SBMA and the development of the SBF. Apart from the direct financial implications for
SBMA and their booked income stream, cash flow also suffered significantly as was evidenced by SBMA's
deteriorating accounts receivable over the period, and reduced demand for space in the main industrial
parks within the SBF. Also, there were only fewer aircraft movements through the new Subic Bay
International Airport and fewer tourists in 1998 and 1999. Additionally, manufacturing firms, retail
outlets, restaurants, and concessionaires were among the domestic and foreign investors which left the SBF
during the crisis. The number of visitors, which had increased from just over 1 million in 1993 to over 2.6
million in 1997, fell sharply in 1998 to 1.25 million. At the end of 1997 SBMA estimated that about
40,700 people were employed in the SBF, up from about 6,700 in 1993. This dropped to about 27,600 at
the end of 1998-a decline of about 30% in one year.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Change of national administration. See Section 4.1.




                                                      - 16 -

(ii) Appointment of key staff. The national government's constraints on the appointment of key staff for
administering, managing and implementing SBMA activities restricted SBMA's ability to provide sufficient
staff with suitable skills to support the Subic II Project subcomponents. Existing skilled SBMA staff were
already pre-occupied with their assigned task and therefore found it difficult to assume additional
responsibilities for managing and participating in the project's day-to-day activities, especially for the
institutional strengthening support subcomponent.

(iii) Conflicting laws. Delays were experienced in obtaining an Environmental Clearance Certificate and
Tree Cutting Permits due to issues regarding approval by the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (DENR) and the SBMA Ecology Center. While under its Charter SBMA had the authority to
cut trees, the DENR insisted that SBMA obtain a license from the national government for cutting trees.
Even though this issue was subsequently resolved, the interpretation of environmental laws led to
considerable delays in project activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

(i) Negative pledge. By pledging certain of its assets to creditors and giving that pledge priority over the
Bank's loan, SBMA had breached the Negative Pledge Clause under the Subic I Loan Agreement. The
SBMA had to take appropriate steps to resolve this problem by reaching agreements with the creditors, the
Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), to eliminate the liens
and replace them with a sovereign guarantee from the Department of Finance (in the case of the PNB) and
to pay a higher interest rate on its loan with the DBP. Because of this, the effectiveness of the Subic II
project was delayed by about 11 months.

(ii) Administrative delays. At times during implementation, the SBMA management and Board took an
inordinate amount of time to decide on approving project management recommendations related to contract
issues such as, procurement, contract extensions, variations orders and claims. These delays were primarily
due to the inexperience and conservative approach of the new SBMA administration as well as the heavy
workloads of the senior management in their new positions.

(iii) Dispute between the SBMA and the neighboring community of Morong. A political dispute between
the SBMA and the neighboring community of Morong delayed perimeter fencing because Morong's Mayor
objected to putting up a fence in his town's territorial jurisdiction. This problem was however, resolved.

(iv) IFMS problems. The resignation of the Consultant Component Manager prior to contract completion
led to the hiring of a large team of IFMS Contractual Personnel to work with existing SBMA staff to
carry out the outstanding services as well as related SBMA's on-going activities. The implementation also
experienced considerable delays due primarily to initial attempts to base the IFMS system on the existing
system, and on underestimates of programmer input requirements. Ultimately the initial eight-month
implementation period was extended by one year. In addition, the SBMA reported a slippage of several
months due to unanticipated work that was needed in order to respond to the Commission on Audit's
system requirements. The slippage delayed completion of the second and final phase of the work by a few
months.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$29.80 million compared with the SAR estimate of US$108.0 million.
The lower project cost was because of two reasons: (a) after the project restructuring, the total cost was
reduced from $108.0 million to $43.1 million; (b) significant devaluation of the Peso since 1998. The



                                                      - 17 -

Bank financed $25.50 million, and SBMA contributed $4.30 million equivalent in local costs. At the time
of restructuring, the ratio of Bank to SBMA financing was increased from 60:40 to 75:25, with effect from
January 1, 2001. The two extensions of the Loan closing date are discussed paragraph 3.2 above.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The sustainability of the project is likely based on the following facts:

SBMA. As mentioned earlier, the project has led to increased inflows of investment, rental and lease income
for SBMA, and employment in the Freeport area. For example, investments in SBMA increased from
$2.59 billion in 1998 to $4.16 billion as of June 30, 2003; number of companies invested increased from
304 to 640; and the number of employees in the SBF increased from 7756 to 53,017 during the same
period. In addition, the project has enhanced SBMA's managerial, administrative and regulatory

capabilities, to create a viable and sustainable institution.

Institutional Strengthening. SBMA is proceeding to strengthen constituency groups with key stakeholders
and neighboring communities, even though much work still needs to be done in developing a strong
constituency base within the boundaries of the Freeport area, particularly with the business community
located within Subic. A strong stakeholder community can be one of the viable options that the current
administration has to ensure continuity in its policies and philosophies, particularly as it pertains to the
protection of the environment and upkeep of the Freeport.

Civil Works. All completed civil works are being adequately administered and maintained by the Public
Works and Technical Service Group (PWTSG) except for ports and airport infrastructure, which will be
administered and maintained by their respective SBMA departments.

Metes and Bounds, Aerial Photos and Orthophotomosaics. These would be maintained and controlled by
a technically qualified and competent individual in PWTSG.

Computerized Systems. In general, these will be maintained and upgraded as necessary by the Management
Information Systems (MIS) Department.

Financial Sustainability. SBMA has committed to borrow $151.7 million from JBIC for a Subic Bay Port
Development Project and $11.9 million for a Subic Bay Freeport Environment Management Project. While
these two loan commitments would impose an additional burden on SBMA's current financial
sustainability, according to SBMA's financial projections, SBMA is expected to be able to pay off this
loan by 2040 from the benefits accrued from these two projects.

In addition, SBMA's accounts receivables from locators are high, which stood at $52.7 million as of
October 31, 2003. The outstanding accounts receivables were largely due to a dispute between the SBMA
and locators over electricity tariffs, and as such, the revenue that has been booked may not necessarily be
valid. A committee has been set up to review the fairness of these charges and to reconcile differences
between what investors thought to be legitimate tariff versus the amounts imposed by SBMA. This issue is
expected to be resolved soon with the revised tariff structure that is being implemented since late 2003.

Management Continuity. With the progress made in institutional strengthening, a more concrete
organizational and management process, and the regularization of staff, SBMA is expected to be less
vulnerable to leadership changes.


                                                      - 18 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6. 1.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in SBF.
The project's consistency with the government's development priorities and the Bank's country assistance
strategy was assured. In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth sociological aspects and local issues
while designing the project. With a harmonious team of a good skill mix, it brought in state-of-the-art
expertise into project design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.
The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the five years of project implementation, there were 14 supervision missions, with an
average of about three missions per year. Supervision teams included specialists in water resource, water
and sanitation, environment, legal, finance, energy, social anthropology, social development, information
systems, civil works, logistics, financial management, and procurement. External consultants were used for
specific aspects of project components.

The Bank's client relationship was generally cordial and productive. However, the relationship with SBMA
was at times troubled in the early stages of implementation, but that was to be expected given that its
performance was occasionally disappointing and had to be pointed out. The team maintained a broad range
of contacts, including the investor community in Subic Bay, and neighboring municipalities.

Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to problems with
project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation
occurred, the Bank's task team was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for putting the project
back on track and pace. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The
quality of advice, and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants and remedies were
enforced effectively.

The Bank was very responsive and decisive with regard to expediting needed changes in the program



                                                      - 19 -

throughout the implementation period. The Bank undertook a special mission to welcome the incoming
SBMA administration. It also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation,
including that for the Power Component, the addition of the Airport Improvement sub-component, and the
expansion of the Institutional Strengthening Program. The task team worked closely with the government
and the SBMA, and provided them with extensive assistance including technical advice. The Bank
conducted workshops and seminars at the early stages of implementation on specific subjects, such as
procurement and disbursement. With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Country Office in
Manila, the Bank could provide quick response and follow-up.

The Bank's supervision performance was reviewed by QAG which remarked that: "The reports to the
borrower were candid and timely. The project was restructured consistent with evolving trends in provision
of infrastructure services, but more important, this was not done until the borrower had actually
implemented a seven point action plan to demonstrate its commitment to change performance in order to
achieve project objectives and enable sustainability of project benefits".

The QAG further remarked that: "The Bank staff brought the institutional weaknesses to the attention of
SBMA and Government at the end of each supervision mission in a candid manner and together with
suggestions for remedial action. These suggestions were followed up with formal communications from the
Sector Manager."

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory during all phases of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The staff of SBMA worked closely with the
Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the government implementation performance was satisfactory.

The civil unrest and court challenges that followed after the administration that came to power in June 1998
and changed the SBMA leadership effectively closed the SBMA for a period of three months. This closure,
and the unprecedented period of duress and uncertainty that followed, had a major detrimental impact on
the SBF. It was apparent that the administration that came to power in June 1998 made little effective
attempt to intervene to quell the unrest and mitigate the significant damage caused by the protracted
leadership struggle. Ad hoc policy changes and reversals made by the new administration destabilized the
SBF business environment. The government implemented a number of actions that diluted the integrity of
the policy framework and introduced ambiguity into the freeport investment environment. The government
performance during 1998-2000 regime was unsatisfactory.

On the other hand, the administration which later came to power in January 2001, consistently maintained
its commitment throughout the rest of the implementation period. It was very responsive in taking



                                                     - 20 -

corrective implementation measures, and was effective in dealing with outstanding operational issues.
Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up
were observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred. Documentation was
maintained properly for periodic review. The Ministry of Finance fully collaborated with the Bank. The
project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems. In view of its commitment and
responsiveness, performance of the current administration and the overall, the government implementation
performance is rated as satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of SBMA, which coordinated the project, was satisfactory.

The performance of the implementing agency varied throughout the project cycle due to administrative
changes. The original SBMA administration sought a radical change in the SBMA institution that
provided for a complete over-hauling of the administration to be accomplished largely within the Subic II
loan period.

On the other hand, the new SBMA administration opted for the principle of developing SBMA with a more
conservative step-by-step implementation that considers the existing GOP constraints related to existing
staffing quotas, government regulations and budgetary constraints. As mentioned earlier, before the project
was restructured in June 2001 and even for a few months thereafter, there were generally significant delays
throughout project implementation by senior SBMA administrators in approving project management
recommendations related to contract issues including procurements, contract extensions, variations orders
and claims. It would appear that these delays were due primarily to the "conservative" nature of the new
administration, and to the heavy workloads of the senior SBMA administrators. SBMA and FAPO were
not proactive in addressing these slippage nor in ensuring a better performance by the contractor and the
supervising consultants.

However, the performance of SBMA and FAPO improved a few months after the restructuring. Thereafter,
implementation progressed in accordance with the new timetable set at the time of reprogramming
activities. SBMA became more organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement,
progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project. Appropriate levels of review and
approval were in place, expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred and documentation
was maintained properly for an adequate period of time for the purpose of review. There were no
discrepancies or difficulties regarding the Special Account and funds flow, and there were no audit
objections to compliance with contractual or internal control requirements. Financial management
procedures were conducted in line with the Bank's guidelines. They were receptive to the Bank's advice,
and highly collaborative with respect to meeting demanding benchmarks and deadlines.




7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons were learned from the project:



                                                    - 21 -

(a)      The SBMA needs to have more autonomy and flexibility in order to improve its performance and
efficiency. Operating as a traditional government-owned and controlled corporation is extremely difficult
for an entity that must move quickly to compete with freeports worldwide. The SBMA was constrained by
government regulations and procedures from being able to act commercially in a number of key areas of its
operation and charter. Also, a better legal framework is required so that building institutional capacity is
not so difficult and restricted by rules.

(b)      The Bank should have taken timely and appropriate remedial actions when the possible risk of
change in SBMA leadership which was already identified during project preparation became a reality. For
example, the Bank should have seriously assessed the crisis situation in the SBMA after the change of
leadership and discussed an immediate time-bound action plan or a definite deadline for the suspension or
cancellation of the project.

(c)      In a project of this type, which encompasses many players, including national government,
municipalities, and the SBMA, cohesion and commitment from all players are critical. The Borrower
should also be equally committed to all components of a project, instead of focusing on some components
while neglecting others. Likewise, continued involvement of stakeholders, especially close partnership with
the surrounding communities is necessary for the success of the project.

(d)      Future projects should give highest priority to institutional strengthening and capacity building
since they are important factors for the successful operation of free ports and economic zones. These
would enable borrowers, particularly relatively young institutions such as the SBMA, to improve their
ability to implement projects with greater efficiency and effectiveness. Likewise, for a fledgling institution
like the SBMA, it is important to ensure that it be staffed with personnel with appropriate skills and
training. In addition, the tasks to be carried out by the institutional strengthening consultants should be
well-defined and made clear before the commencement of the project itself.

(e)      It is important to ensure at the commencement of the project itself that, there is a competent and
experienced project manager working full time, to take care of day to day matters of implementation.
Similarly, greater emphasis should be given for adequate staffing and training.

(f)      Financial management and project systems should be kept simple. Progress should be closely
monitored during implementation, and needs should be continually reassessed. It is also necessary to
prepare projects efficiently to ensure that time and financial resources are not wasted. For example,
considerable time and costs were spent assessing financial software. Ultimately the IFMS had to be
developed from the scratch, thus wasting the preparation resources.

(g)      In order to minimize delays and avoid mis-procurement, it is important to streamline standard
administration procedures for all aspects of project implementation, such as procurement of goods and
services, invoicing, processing and payment of project activities.

(h)      Before implementing the project, it is necessary to anticipate and resolve the problems which could
impede smooth implementation. For example, the conflicting laws of the national government and SBMA
regarding Environmental Clearance Certificate, and permits for cutting trees could have been resolved
before effectiveness to avoid implementation delays.

(i)      In a multisectoral and multifunctional project, resources for supervision should be allocated based



                                                      - 22 -

on the country's capacity for using local expertise. This project was able to provide adequate project
supervision only because it could use local bank staff and local consultants and draw from trust funds for
international consultants.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The draft ICR should take note that the original scope of the Power Component could not be undertaken
because Olongapo City ("The City") was reluctant or unwilling to collaborate with the Borrower. As
originally conceived, the Power Distribution Component was intended to merge the Public Utilities
Department (PUD) of the City with its equivalent Department in the SBMA. Under this design, the
Component was supposed to benefit from the economies of scale arising from this merger. This merger
could not be pursued because of the unwillingness of the City to collaborate with the Borrower in this
direction.

In spite of repeated efforts in good faith made by the SBMA to encourage the City to collaborate with the
Borrower and continue implementation of the component in its original scope, the City indicated that it
would not support the planned merger. As a result, implementation of the component, as originally planned,
could not proceed. This was conveyed early on by the SBMA to the Bank with a request for the component
to be restructured to focus entirely on power distribution within the Subic Bay Freeport. However, much
time passed until the Bank gave its concurrence in March 2000 to proceed with the revised power
component.

It may be pointed out that similar problems have arisen with respect to other projects of the SBMA which
involved various degrees of integration with the City. This also includes other ODA-financed projects of
the SBMA and the National Government. These and similar problems have arisen out of the lack of
cooperation from the City and have contributed to implementation delays on the part of the SBMA.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs:

Reference is made to the impact of the long and protracted change in SBMA's leadership on the project,
particularly on the power and water components. However, the change in itself did not directly precipitate
the revision of the power and water components. As mentioned above, in the case of the power component,
the difficulties stemmed primarily from the unwillingness of the City to cooperate with the SBMA to
pursue the project in its original scope. The SBMA had worked to continue the project in its original form,
but was unable to do so for this reason. In the case of the water supply component, problems arising from
social acceptability and political tensions were evident even before the change in the SBMA administration.


Rizal-Argonaut Road:

Reference is made to "the newly constructed road which shorten travel time between Subic and Clark".
"Riza" should read "Rizal." It should be pointed out that the reference should instead be made for the
Subic-Clark-Tarlac Toll Road Project of the Bases Conversion and Development Authority ("BCDA"),
and not the Rizal-Argonaut Highway Widening and Expressway Extension Project, as the latter project is
confined to the SBF, and does not link it to the Clark Special Economic Zone. Construction for the
Subic-Clark-Tarlac Toll Road Project has not yet commenced.




                                                    - 23 -

Lessons Learned:

The Bank correctly pointed out that Subic II was complex and demanding for the Borrower because the
project involved multifarious activities in various areas, such as management, environment, water, power
privatization, and institutional building. The Bank further pointed out the SBMA as a fledging institution
and the importance to staff it with personnel with the appropriate skills and training.          Given this
assessment, it would be instructive to consider more capacity building in future lending operations. This
would enable Borrowers, particularly relatively young institutions such as the SBMA, to improve their
ability to implement projects with greater efficiency and effectiveness to deliver the desired development
impact. It would be further instructive to factor in the capacity of the implementing agency in the design
of the project, particularly in more complex and demanding projects such as Subic II.

Institutional Strengthening Support:

The Services Group (TSG) contract to support the SBMA administration was implemented only partially,
with several of the subcomponents being cancelled:

The preparation of the Subic Bay Freeport Strategic Plan was the most important activity planned for this
subcomponent, and this plan was submitted, approved, and adopted by the SBMA Board, and underwent
its 1st quarterly review. Although no revisions have been made, the Strategic Plan and the training received
during its development are still viewed by relevant SBMA staff as very important. It has also helped
SBMA in organizing a number of projects in areas of infrastructure, tourism, and recreation, as well as in
the formulation development guidelines for the different districts.

Factors Subject to Control of Implementing Agency - Negative Pledge:

It is thought that the reference to "Subic I" in connection with the Negative Pledge issue should refer to
"Subic II" instead. It is understood that the Negative Pledge issue became a delay for Subic II.

Absence of a regular project manager:

It will be noted that a regular Project Manager had been originally hired by the SBMA with the
concurrence of the Bank. However, the Task Manager at the time chose not to extend him and instead,
advocated for the role of the Project Manager to be taken up concurrently by the Sector Manager for Roads
and Bridges. This decision was conveyed to the Borrower during the restructuring of the Project in 2000.

Counterpart staff:

It is further noted that the SBMA had recommended a component manager as counterpart staff for the
Institutional Strengthening Component, but was not supported by the Bank's Task Manager.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A




                                                    - 24 -

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Aldo Baietti (Task Team Leader)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Evelyn Quirante (Team Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

Aloysius Ordu
Aldo Baietti




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:

Institutional Strengthening Component
                Indicator                    Projected in SAR/PAD End of            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                           Project
*introduction of computerized               *streamlined movement of goods
merchandise controls, removal of            and services between Freeport and
documentary controls over duty              customs territory.
free shops.
*revision of the Freeport customs           *reduced leakages of duty-free       * The Joint Memo Order
procedures manual.                          goods into domestic customs          between SBMA and the BOC
*reduction in amount of time for customs to territory.                           (Bureau of Customs) was
clear import & export consignments.                                              approved last October 2003
*establishment of framework for resolution                                       and started the implementation
of pending issues relating to taxation and  * enhanced competitiveness of SBF    of TAFS-ASYCUDA (Trade
investment incentives with concerned        firms.                               Automation & Facilitation
national government agencies.                                                    Systems - Automated Systems
                                                                                 for Customs Data) last
                                                                                 November 2003
                                            *rationalized incentives for         * The Automation of
                                            freeports in the Philippines.        importation and export using
                                                                                 ASYCUDA allows the
                                                                                 following:
                                                                                   Cost Savings, Fast,
                                                                                 Convenient, 24 hours x 7 days
                                                                                 operation, Minimum manual
                                                                                 intervention, Transparency,
                                                                                 and Minimal travel time.
*establishment of a Freeport policy unit    *clear delineation of regulatory and  *While a Freeport policy unit
within SBMA to undertake regulatory &       oversight responsibilities with       was taken up, efforts were
oversight functions.                        national government agencies.         directed to prioritize the
                                            *enhanced definition of Freeport      privatization of the SBMA
*issuance of DOJ opinions on video          framework in line with legislation    power distribution system,
transmission, printing & publishing         and international best practices.     and form the water regulatory
freedoms in SBF; SBMA authority over air                                          board. Both have since been
traffic rights.                                                                   completed.
*establishment of framework for             *delineation of functions,            The definition of a Freeport
commercial dispute resolution.              responsibilities and authority with   framework was attended to
*issuance of SBMA framework agreement       neighboring LGUs.                     selectively under the TSG
with LGUs including provision of utilities                                        Strategic Plan;
services.                                                                        *Air traffic rights and air
                                                                                 operations at SBF are handled
                                                                                 jointly by the Air Transportation
                                                                                 Office (ATO) and SBMA which
                                                                                 ensures compliance with
                                                                                 International Civil Aviation
                                                                                 Organization (ICAO) standards;




                                                                                 *Commercial Dispute resolution
                                                                                 is being undertaken as required
                                                                                 without the benefit of a




                                                           - 26 -

                                                                                 framework;




                                                                                 *An SBMA framework
                                                                                 agreement with LGUs that
                                                                                 includes the provision of
                                                                                 utilities will require more time.
                                                                                 Efforts to arrive at some degree
                                                                                 of integration with utilities
                                                                                 services have not been more
                                                                                 supported by LGUs. Olongapo
                                                                                 City would not support
                                                                                 integrated solid waste
                                                                                 management and power
                                                                                 distribution with the SBF, both
                                                                                 of which were funded by ODA
                                                                                 loans signed by the SBMA.

*development of plan to restructure the     *division of SBMA into separate
SBMA.                                       entities for major functions:
*development of SBMA criteria to assume     administrator of Freeport regime;
equity positions in projects.               exerciser of municipal authority;
*issuance of timetable for privatization of owner & developer of assets within
SBMA subsidiaries.                          the Freeport.
*implementation of privatization            *greater role for private sector in   *Successful privatization of
transactions.                               provision of services within the      the SBMA power distribution
                                            Freeport.                             system, which was turned
                                                                                  over to a private sector
                                                                                  company on October 25,
                                                                                  2003.


Output Indicators:

Other Components
                 Indicator                       Projected in SAR/PAD              Actual/Latest Estimate
Power Component
*Construction of 23 km of overhead and 3    *Reduce SBMA's administrative
km underground 69 kV sub-transmission       consumption of electricity from
circuits;                                   40% to 10% by 2000;
*Expansion of five existing 69/13.8 kV      *Reduce usage and live losses from
substations;                                24% to 12% by 2000;
*Construction of one new 69/13.8 kV         *Provide 100% meter coverage to       * Project Completed
substation;                                 domestic consumers in the SBMA        Started: November 14, 2001
*Installation of 20 km of 13.8 kV cables;   housing areas by 2000;                Finished: September 30,
*Rehabilitation and extension of 50 km of   *Replace 100% of consumer-owned       2002
13.8 kV and 50 km of LV system.             meters in the Olongapo franchise      Cost: Php 55,574,145.95
                                            area by 2000.
Water Component
*Development of 20 wells with average       *Meet projected water demand by
capacity of 450 m3/hour;                    user;                               Not applicable since this
*Construction of 7,600 meters of raw        *Domestic ­ 49.50 to 87.3 million   component was
water transmission main;                    liters/day (MLD), Commercial ­
*Construction of electric power             13.8 to 72.8 MLD, & Institutional ­ dropped.
transmission lines to the Pamatawan well    3.1 to 4.7 MLD by 2000;
field and treatment plant;                  *Increase incremental water sales of
*Construction of water treatment plant      about 33 million cubic meters by



                                                            - 27 -

and a booster station;                     2000;
*Construction of 19,400 meters of treated  *Reduce non-revenue water to 5%
water transmission main;                   of total water pumped by 2000;
*Installation of a ground water monitoring *Reduce system losses for bulk
network;                                   water close to 0% by 2000;
*Reforestation of the Pamatawan River      *Provide 100% water meter
Basin; and                                 coverage to consumers in the
*Identification of water supply sources.   SBMA housing areas by 2000.
Roads and Bridges
*Widening selected sections of Rizal and   *Increasing network capacity to      * Project Completed
Argonaut Highways;                         meet projected traffic growth from   Contractor: AMO/IPM
*Constructing an extension to the SBF      expanded airport, port, and the new Started: September 8, 2000
Expressway;                                industrial areas;                    Finished: December 15, 2002
*Replacement of 5 existing bridges ­       *Improving network user benefits     Cost: Php 628,134,038.26
Kalaklan, Kalalake, Malawaan, Boton,       by reducing travel time,
and Binictican;                            improvement of road                  * Consultancy Completed
*Establishing a road maintenance           alignments/by-passes, and reducing   Consultant: SMEC
management system;                         road roughness;                      Started: May 27, 1998
*Reinstatement of existing Freeport        *Improving vehicular and             Finished: June 30, 2002
Roads;                                     pedestrian safety by improved        Cost: US$ 1,524,016.10
                                           traffic flow, signalization of major * Cancelled
*Carrying out a road alignment studies for intersection, and replacement of
the Freeport northern by-pass, the SBIA    substandard bridges;
by-pass, and the Morong Connection         *Provide a greater service life and
Road;                                      traffic capacity by replacement of
*Location and monumenting of SBFZ          distressed bridges in the SBF;       * Project Completed

boundaries;                                *Enhance SBMA's ability to           Started: May 15, 1998
*Aerial photos/mapping of SBFZ;            program, procure and supervise       Finished: January 31, 2000
                                           maintenance works by private         Cost: US$ 478,419.17
                                           contractors;                         * Project Substantially
*Repair/replacement/ extension of          *Enhance SBMA's ability to           Completed
Security Fencing and Boundary Patrol       administer and monitor Freeport      Started: April 2, 2002
roads;                                     activities, and planning Freeport    Finished: Sept. 27, 2003
*Upgrading of GIS.                         development.                         Cost: US$ 346,538.42
                 Indicator                      Projected in SAR/PAD              Actual/Latest Estimate
* Upgrading of GIS                                                              * Project Completed
                                                                                Started: March 22, 2000
                                                                                Finished: April 2, 2001
                                                                                Cost: US$ 346,538.42




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. Institutional Strengthening                               4.60            4.10            89.1
B. Water Supply                                             32.60            0.00               0
C. Power Distribution                                       26.10            4.30            16.4
D. Roads and Bridges                                        28.10          21.40             76.1

Total Baseline Cost                                         91.40          29.80
 Physical Contingencies                                     10.80
 Price Contingencies                                         5.80
                          Total Project Costs              108.00          29.80
                    Total Financing Required               108.00          29.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           47.40           18.00         3.50         0.00         68.90
                                  (29.40)         (11.10)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (40.50)
2. Goods                            7.20            0.00         0.00         0.00          7.20
                                   (7.20)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (7.20)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        12.48         18.50        30.98
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (12.30)        (0.00)      (12.30)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           54.60           18.00        15.98         18.50        107.08
                                  (36.60)         (11.10)      (12.30)        (0.00)      (60.00)




                                                - 29 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                6.80               4.00              3.50             0.00             14.30
                                          (6.80)             (4.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.80)
   2. Goods                                3.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              3.00
                                          (3.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             11.40             0.00             11.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.40)            (0.00)           (11.40)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.30             0.80              1.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               9.80               4.00             15.20             0.80             29.80
                                          (9.80)             (4.00)           (11.70)            (0.00)           (25.50)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Institutional               3.80         0.80                     3.80         0.00                  100.0     0.0
Strengthening
B.Water Supply                18.50        14.10                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
C.Power Distribution          15.70        10.40                     4.00         0.30                  25.5      2.9
D. Roads and Bridges          17.50        10.60                    17.70         4.00                  101.1     37.7




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


N/A




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Supervision

              03/30/1998               7    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                            ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CONSULTANT,
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            CONSULTANT, FINANCIAL
                                            (1); CONSULTANT,
                                            INSTITUTNL (1); TASK
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
              06/30/1998               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              10/12/1998               7    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                            ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT, ENGINEER
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CONSULTANT,
                                            FINANCIAL (1); FINANCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              03/26/1999               7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1); SOCIAL
                                            ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
                                            (1); ENGINEER (1); WATER &
                                            SANITARY ENG. (1)
              05/15/1999               3    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ECONOMIST (1)
                                                                             U               S
              09/30/1999               7    TEAM LEADER (1); WATER           U               S
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ECONOMIST (1);
                                            ENGINEER (1); SECTOR
                                            DIRECTOR (1)
              04/10/2000               5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                            FINANCIAL ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENT (2)



                                             - 32 -

               06/30/2000              6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             U    S
                                            ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                            ECONOMIST (1); PRIN.
                                            OPERATIONS OFF. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENT (1)
               02/07/2001              1    TASK MANAGER (1)                  U    S
               06/18/2001              6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINAN.SPEC.CONSULTANT
                                            (1); FREEPORT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               11/16/2001              5    TEAM LEADER (1); OPTNS            S    S
                                            OFFICER, PROC. (1); OPTNS
                                            OFFICER, ENV. (1); OPTNS
                                            OFCR., SO.SFGRD (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               02/27/2002              4    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT/FIN. MGNT
                                            (1); SOCIAL SPEC. (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
               09/02/2002              6    TTL, PSD SPECIALIST (1);          S    S
                                            SENIOR OPERTNS OFFICER
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENT OPTNS
                                            OFCR (1); SOCIAL
                                            SAFEGUARD OPTNS (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MNGMNT SPEC
                                            (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                            (1)
               02/14/2003              6    SR.FINANCE SPECIALIST (1);        S    S
                                            SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            EXPERT (1); SOCIAL
                                            SAFEGUARDS (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT (1);
                                            PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)


 ICR
               10/30/03               1     1 CONSULTANT                      S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                          116.5                         410.7
  ICR                                     2.6                          21.8
  Total                                197.8                         738.1




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous Peoples
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated June 12, 2003; and

5. Staff Appraisal Report for the Republic of Philippines Second Subic Bay Freeport Project, dated
October 30, 1996 (Report No. 15956-PH)




                                                   - 36 -

- 37 -

