Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 1 5956-PH
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 30, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September, 1996)
Currency Unit    =  Peso
P I              =  US$0.039
US$1.00          =  P 26.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha.            -     hectare
KV             -     Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
KVA            -     Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
Kw             -     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
KWH            -     Kilowatt Hour
MLD            -     Million Liters Per Day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -      Asia Development Bank
APEC           -      Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
ASEAN          -      Association of South East Asian Nations
CAS            -      Country Assessment Strategy
COA            -      Commission and Audit
EIA            -      Environmental Impact Assessment
ESMO           -      Environmental Sanitation Management Office
FIRR           -      Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMIS           -      Financial Management Information System
FRC            -      Freehold Services Company
GIS            -      Geographical Information System
JAIDO          -      Japanese Industrial Development Organization
LGU            -      Local Government Units
MOA            -      Memorandum of Agreements
MOU            -      Memorandum of Understanding
NBF            -      Non-Bank Financed
NPC            -      National Poxver Corporation
NWRB           -      National Water Resources Board
O & M          -      Operation and Maintenance
OCWD           -      Olongapo City Water District
OECF           -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PACP           -      Property Acquisition and Compensation Plan
PHRD           -      Policy and Human Resources Development
POL            -      Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants
PWG            -      Public Works Group
SAR            -      Staff Appraisal Report
SBF            -      Subic Bay Freeport
SBFZ           -      Subic Bay Freeport Zone
SBMA           -      Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
SCF            -      Standard Conversion Factor
SOE            -      Statement of Expenditures
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA)
Guarantor:                 Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agency:       Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA)
Beneficiary:               Not applicable
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    US$60 million
Terms:                     20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
LIBOR-based interest rate for US$ Single Currency Loans
Commitment Fee:            0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Net Present Value:         US$118 million
Financing Plan:            See paragraph 3.25
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 15956-PH
Map:                       IBRD Map No. 28291
Project ID No.:            40981
Vice President:            Nicholas C. Hope, Acting, EAP
Director:                  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EA1
Division Chief:            J. Shivakumar, EAlIN
Task Manager:              Aloysius Ordu






i
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Contents
1.       BACKGROUND..................................................................................................
A.   INTRODUCTION ..............................................................1
B.       THE  SUBIC  BAY  FREEPORT  .............................................................3
C.       THE FIRST SUBIC BAY  FREEPORT PROJECT  .................................                                 .............................3
D.   LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT ................................................. 4
E.       RATIONALE FOR  BANK  INVOLVEMENT ..............................................................5
2.  THE BORROWER .......................................6
A.  INSTITUTIONAL ................................................6
B.   SBMA's STRATEGY ................................................7
3.  THE PROJECT .......................................                                                                                                 10
A.       PROJECT OBJECTIVES  ............................................................. 10
B.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ............................................................. 10
C.   COSTS AND FINANCING .................................................                                                                     16
D.       PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND  IMPLEMENTATION  .............................................................  17
E.       PROCUREMENT AND  DISBURSEMENT ....................                                      ......................................... 18
F.   SUPERVISION, MONITORING, REPORTING, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING ............................. 21
4.   PROJECT FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...................................... 23
A.   SBMA'S FINANCIAL POSITION ............................................... 23
B.       FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS ....................                                           ........................... 26
5.   BENEFITS AND RISK ...............................................                                                                                   29
A.  PROJECT BENEFITS ..........................................                                                                                29
B.   SBMA OPERATIONS WITHOUT THE PROJECT ..........................................                                                           29
C.   ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ..........................................                                                      30
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..........................................                                                                        3 1
E.   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS ..........................................                                                              31
F.  RISKS ..........................................                                                                                          32
This report was prepared by Messrs./Mmes. A. Ordu (Sr. Economist/Task Manager), A. Toft
(Pr. Counsel), J. Arnold (Transport Economist), P. Long (Transport Engineer, consultant), P. Bulmer
(Traffic Engineer, consultant), J. Irving (Sr. Power Engineer), C. del Castillo (Social Specialist), S.
Cointreau-Levine (Solid Waste, consultant), F. K. Lee (Sanitary Engineer, consultant), M. Dijkerman
(Institutional Specialist, consultant), A. Rychener (Financial Economist, consultant), C. Ohri
(Procurement Specialist), K. Page (Analyst, consultant), and B. Brown, Task Assistant. It was
cleared by Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Director, EAI) and Mr. J. Shivakumar (Chief, EAIIN).



ii
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................................... 34
A.   AGREEMENTS ................................................                    34
B.   RECOMMENDATION ................................................                35
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Profile of the Project Area .36
Annex 2:    Freeport Concepts -- A Comparison of Subic and Other Freeports .40
Annex 3:  SBMA's Organizational Chart .44
Annex 4: Detailed Cost Table .46
Annex 5:  Performance Monitoring Indicators .53
Annex 6:  Disbursement Schedule Per Semester .58
Annex 7:  Project Supervision Plan .59
Annex 8:    Financial Analysis of Project Components .61
Annex 9: Economic Analysis .74
MAP
IBRD Map No. 28291



1. BACKGROUND
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Subic Bay Naval Base in the Philippines was the largest U.S. military facility outside the
United States. Following the expiration of the 1947 Military Base Agreement between the
Philippines and the United States, the U.S. Navy evacuated Subic Bay in November 1992. The
Government of the Philippines (GOP) set up a Presidential Task Force, established the Subic Bay
Metropolitan Authority (SBMA), and requested assistance from the World Bank to help the Task
Force and SBMA to plan the conversion of Subic Bay to civilian use. This initial assistance assessed
the feasibility and developed a strategy for converting the baselands into an industrial estate/freeport
and tourism complex; identified specific actions required to execute an orderly transition; and
proposed areas for technical assistance. The Bank further arranged a Japanese-funded Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Technical Assistance that assisted the GOP and SBMA:
(i) to formulate the implementing rules and regulations for the freeport; (ii) to prepare a land use and
facilities use plan for the site; (iii) to initiate transportation planning; and (iv) to market and promote
Subic Bay as an economic freeport. This culminated in the approval of the Bank's first Subic Bay
Freeport Project (Subic I, Loan 3745-PH) in June 1994 with a total project cost of US$52.0 million,
of which the Bank loan amounted to US$40.0 million.
1.2   The proposed project would be the Bank's second intervention to assist the Philippines in
converting the U.S. Navy's former Subic Bay Naval Base into a freeport. The first Subic Bay
Freeport Project (Subic I: Loan 3745-PH, June 1994) consisted of infrastructure rehabilitation and
upgrading, and technical assistance to strengthen the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) and
develop an environmental management plan.
1.3   The Subic freeport has boomed: investment levels and job creation are more than two years
ahead of the level anticipated under Subic I. As of end-1995, 201 firms had made investment
commitments of almost US$1.3 billion. The 123 firms currently operational have already created
11,821 jobs. Employment creation is expected to be 39,733 at full operation of these firms. Investing
firms represent manufacturing, tourism, services, warehousing, utilities, and banking. Table 1.1
shows the number of investors by sector, total investment commitments, and employment
(actual/projected). By far the largest number of firms, about 54 percent, are Taiwanese. Other Asian
firms include those from Singapore, Malaysia, Japan and the Philippines (about 13 percent)
US/Canada (14 percent), Europe (12 percent), and others (seven percent).
1.4   SBMA has turned to the private sector to put much of the infrastructure inherited when Subic
reverted to the Philippines in late 1992 into economic use. Most of the commercially exploitable
space in the former Ship Repair Facility area has been leased to investors. SBMA has entered into
long-term leases (25 years and over) for the golf course, the marina, industrial parks, the petroleum,
oil and lubricant (POL) facility, recreational facilities, hotel buildings, and some residential
properties. Only 1,400 ha. of unleased land remain within the 6,700 ha. "secured" naval station; a
further 3,000 hectares is available in the Redondo Peninsula.



-2 -
1.5    Base conversion is, however, far from complete. Several rehabilitation and construction
projects are in progress. The conversion of the airport hangar into a passenger terminal is underway
and this will be followed by the privatization of airport management. The development of a master
plan for seaport improvement and privatization is ongoing. Significant opportunities remain for the
development of Redondo Peninsula, Grande Island and the naval magazine area.
1.6    The freeport's rapid expansion has put great pressure on Subic's infrastructure and the Subic
Bay Metropolitan Authority's management capacity and maintaining the Freeport's development
momentum will mean moving a number of investments forward in time. Subic II is designed to meet
these pressures by providing new water supply, power distribution and transport infrastructure and
institutional support to SBMA and the Subic Bay Ecology Center.
Table 1.1: Economic Impact of the SBF
Projected
No. of            Total            Current          Total
Sub-Sector               Firms           Investment        Employment  Employment
Manufacturing              81              $266.43            6,028          28,444
Operating                 31               $70.10            6,028          13,441
Approved                  50              $196.33                0          15,033
Tourism                    35              $277.38            4,188           7,736
Operating                 30              $221.40            4,188           5,573
Approved                   5               $55.98                0           2,163
Services                   43              $239.07              562           1,371
Operating                 30              $231.58              562           1,121
Approved                  13                 $7.49               0             250
Warehousing                26              $140.52              496           1,780
Operating                 17              $126.76              496           1,170
Approved                   9               $13.76                0             610
Utilities                   5              $342.76              395             250
Operating                  4              $137.06              379             234
Approved                   1              $205.70                0              16
Banks                      11                $7.89              152             150
Operating                 11                $7.89              152             150
Approved                   0                    0                0               0
Total                     201             $1,274.13           11,821         39,733
Operating                123               $794.79           11,821         21,689
Approved                  78               $479.34               0          18,044
Not1e: (i) "Operating Projects" are those registered by SBMA and have begun operations; (ii)"Approved
Projects" are those registered by SBMA and not yet operational, or are under construction; (iii)"Total
Investment" is the declared total value of the projects upon application to SBMA in US$ millions;
(iv) "Current Employment" is the number of regular and contractual employees on each company's payroll
as of end 1995 (of the 11,821 actual jobs generated by locators, 1,505 were contractual positions);
(v) "Projected Total Employment" is the number of employees (regular and contractual) projected at full
operation in investment applications submitted to SBMA; (vi) "Manufacturing" includes investments
registered under the Subic Bay Industrial Park being developed by Taiwanese interests, which accounted
for 39 companies of the 72 projects; (vii) all figures are as of 12/31/95; some figures may not total due to
rounding.
Source: SBMA.



-3 -
B.    THE SUBIC BAY FREEPORT
1.7    The 15,130 ha. Subic Bay Naval Base, the largest US military facility outside the United
States, was turned over to Philippine jurisdiction in November 1992. The Subic Bay Freeport (SBF)
regime was created by the Bases Conversion and Development Act (R.A. 7227; March 13, 1992),
which established a "Special Economic and Freeport Zone" encompassing the City of Olongapo, the
municipalities of Subic, Morong, and Hermosa, and the lands occupied by the Subic Bay Naval base,
and created SBMA with sole authority to operate the SBF and implement the freeport regime. A profile
of the project area is in Annex 1. See also IBRD Map No. 28291. R.A. 7227 defined a freeport regime
as a "separate customs territory" with the following characteristics:
*  all goods and capital could be brought in and taken out, consumed, manipulated, and
processed on a tax- and duty-free basis;
*  SBF-registered enterprises and residents could engage in any activity not specifically
prohibited by the law;
*  SBF firms would have full access to the Philippine market, subject to full payment of
customs duties and taxes as an importation into the customs territory;
*  Freeport enterprises would pay a five percent assessment on "gross income earned" in
lieu of all local and national taxes;
*  Firms would be subject to no exchange controls, and would enjoy free markets in foreign
exchange, gold, securities and futures, and liberalized domestic and offshore banking;
and
*  Investors with a continuing investment of at least US$250,000 would be eligible for
permanent resident status and liberalized working visas.
C.    THE FIRST SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
1.8   In early 1992, the Government asked the Bank to help SBMA plan the conversion of Subic
Bay to civilian use. This initial assistance assessed the feasibility and developed a strategy for
converting the baselands into an industrial estate/freeport and tourism complex, identified specific
actions required to execute an orderly transition, and proposed areas for technical assistance.
Technical assistance was provided to SBMA to: (a) formulate the implementing rules and regulations
for the freeport; (b) prepare a land use and facilities use plan for the site; (c) initiate transportation
planning; and (d) market and promote Subic Bay as an economic freeport. This culminated in the
approval of the Bank's first Subic Bay Freeport Project (Subic I, Loan 3745-PH) in June 1994 with a
total project cost of US$52.0 million, of which the Bank loan amounted to US$40.0 million.'
'See the following reports - (a) Strategy for Conversion of the Subic Naval Base into a Special Economic
Zone and Freeport, January 1993, and (b) Subic Bay Freeport Project, May 10, 1994 (SAR No. 12773-PH).



-4 -
D.    LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREvIOus BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.9   SBMA's priority has been to establish itself as an effective and well-structured organization,
and significant progress has been made in a number of areas.  Government procurement,
compensation and other procedures are being followed. Progress has been made in establishing a
more comprehensive accounting, finance, and budgeting system in line with Government regulations.
A well-functioning Ecology Center has been established, and SBMA's senior staff are no longer
acting in an ex officio capacity. The staff have remained dedicated and energetic; the young
management team is maturing and SBMA is becoming more systematic in its operations.
Implementation of Subic I has been highly satisfactory, and private sector activity/interest remains
buoyant in the freeport. About 59 percent of the loan funds have been disbursed with over two years
until loan completion. The outstanding balance under the loan has been fully committed.
1.10   The March 1996 Mid-Term Review of progress under Subic I showed that the project-while
generally well implemented-had been constrained by SBMA's lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement procedures.  The proposed project includes technical assistance to strengthen
procurement capability in the Office of the Project Director (see Chapter 3). Government-SBMA
interaction has not been as smooth as expected: the legislation creating the freeport is broad, rather
than detailed, and the Government has on a number of occasions changed regulations on such issues
as the duty-free allowance of non-residents of the SBF.2
1.11   These issues were discussed with Government during the Mid-Term Review, which was an
important step in developing a consensus between SBMA and Government departments on the
practical constraints facing SBMA and the role of freeports in the Philippines. Agreement has also
been reached that the Government and SBMA will establish an inter-agency task force to improve
their dialogue and work together on revising the implementing rules and regulations for SBF. As
Subic is seen as a prototype for further freeports, this dialogue will be of particular importance in
developing a national legislative/regulatory package for freeports.
E.    RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.13   The Bank's catalytic role in supporting SBMA's institutional strengthening and provision of
the infrastructure services needed to make the Subic Bay Freeport attractive to private investors is
fully consistent with the Bank's lending strategy for the Philippines, as outlined in the Country
Assistance Strategy discussed at the Board April 4, 1996.
1.14   The Philippine CAS emphasizes investment lending operations to strengthen infrastructure
(power, water supply, solid waste management and transport) to promote economic growth vital to
rapid poverty reduction.  The CAS also emphasizes private sector participation in providing
infrastructure services, which is a major objective of the proposed project. The Freeport has, in a
relatively short time, boosted the Philippines' reputation as an attractive investment location that has
attracted major international corporations. Continued growth is expected with the completion of the
three Taiwanese phases and JAIDO's industrial parks.  Subic has become-as anticipated-a
significant growth pole for the Philippine economy; it generates important foreign exchange revenues
and creates jobs.
2 See Review of the Subic Bay Freeport Policy and Institutional Framework, Final Report May 1996.



-5-
1.15   The Freeport's very success over the past two years has meant, however, that its need to
provide infrastructure has grown more rapidly than anticipated. Without the investments proposed
under this project water supply, electric power and transport constraints that could slow Subic's
growth momentum and harm its competitive position would soon emerge. The proposed transport
rehabilitation/upgrading investments are the most critical: without them an estimated 13,000 to
16,000 new jobs would be lost over the next five years (Chapter 5).
1.16   The proposed project includes a package of institutional strengthening measures designed to
enhance SBMA's capacity to regulate and administer the freeport. Its water supply component
(Chapter 3) also represents an important step toward SBMA's goal of privatizing services delivery
and infrastructure provision.



2. THE BORROWER
A.    INSTITUTIONAL
2.1    SBMA is a government-owned and controlled corporation whose mandate to convert the
Subic Special Economic Zone (see IBRD Map. No. 28291) into a Freeport was legislated under the
March 1992 Bases Conversion and Development Act (Republic Act 7227), which created the Bases
Conversion and Development Authority (BCDA) with defined functions and powers, established the
Subic Special Economic and Freeport Zone, and created SBMA-and the Clark Development
Corporation, which oversees conversion of a former U.S. airbase-as operating and implementing
arms of BCDA. In practice, the BCDA has little oversight over SBMA, as both organizations report
directly to the Office of the President. The base conversion act created SBMA as the sole owner and
developer of the 6,700 hectare "Secured Area" comprising the former U.S. Navy base. SBMA is
directed by a 15-member board appointed by the President of the Philippines.
2.2    As a government-owned corporation, SBMA is subject to control and oversight from central
government units including the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), the Commission on
Audit (COA) and the Civil Service Commission. DBM approves SBMA's annual appropriation from
the GOP budget and the number of its civil service positions, job descriptions, and salary grades.
COA audits SBMA financial statements and ensures that receipts and expenditures are made
according to GOP procedures. Oversight by the Civil Service Commission dictates that SBMA
salaries must conform to salary caps legislated under the Salary Standardization Law. Taken together,
the numeric and salary cap limitations impose, by far, the most critical impediments to SBMA's
ability to carry out its organizational mandate. R.A. 7227, however, empowers BCDA to create
quasi-private subsidiaries with much greater financial autonomy to carry out its mandate of
converting former military installations to civilian use, and SBMA is exploring its legal ability to use
this mechanism.
2.3    Most Freeports operate under detailed laws and regulations delineating the incentives they
can offer investors-including the tax, trade, and financial regimes-the applicability of relevant
national legislation, and the nature of transactions with the domestic economy. (See Annex 2 for a
summary of the Freeport concept and a comparison of Subic with other leading freeports.) The
legislative base for SBF, however, is contained in only three articles of R.A. 7227, leaving many
issues to be worked out later. A Presidential Proclamation in September 1992 clarified SBMA's
powers in terms of ownership and privatization of assets. SBMA itself further delineated the scope of
its activities and the benefits of Freeport status through a set of implementing rules and regulations it
issued in March 1993 after extensive discussions and negotiations with the government agencies
exercising oversight.
2.4    SBMA began operations in 1993 with 298 approved civil service staff positions. In practice,
however, SBMA employs slightly over 3,000 people, including casual laborers and consultants.
Negotiations with DBM were concluded in June 1996; SBMA's organizational structure has been



7 -
approved and corresponding civil service position allotment has been raised to 1587. SBMA's
current organizational chart is presented in Annex 3.
B.    SBMA's STRATEGY
2.5    The continuing growth in the Freeport is generating employment for the surrounding
communities within the zone, drawing in new job seekers and their families and necessitating an
expansion of basic infrastructure and services. The rapid growth of the SBF and the increasing
complexity of investor relationships has placed an enormous management burden on SBMA, raising
fundamental questions as to its organizational role. In essence, SBMA acts as promoter, proprietor
and provider of Freeport services--and is an investor in infrastructure in its own right. While it has
developed considerable competence as a promoter and proprietor, SBMA has not achieved the same
degree of competence as regulator of the Freeport. SBMA recognizes the need to strengthen this
aspect of its operations, and has drawn up a 1996-2005 strategic plan which accords a great deal of
emphasis on the governance of the Freeport. The strategic plan sets out SBMA's vision and
corporate objectives, SBF's target sectors, and the proposed development strategy.  These are
summarized below.
SBMA's Vision and Corporate Objectives
2.6    As a prelude to its second phase of development, SBMA has taken stock not only of its
inherited infrastructure, but also its natural endowments and comparative advantage in devising its
comprehensive strategy for the future. SBMA envisions the SBF and its environs as a major regional
hub of broadly-based economic activity which will serve as a catalyst for national economic growth
and will contribute to the integration of the Philippines in the global economy. Its desire is to create
an environment attractive to service, manufacturing and tourism industries while imbuing it with core
values of self-reliance, entrepreneurship, eco-industrial harmony and quality of life.
2.7   SBMA's corporate objectives include the achievement of rapid growth in terms of
employment generation, investment, exports and skill creation. SBMA's vision and objectives are
ambitious yet feasible. The SBF is endowed with natural assets (e.g., possession of a deep natural
seaport), geography (proximity to Southeast Asian growth poles), and natural touristic beauty.
Additionally, SBMA possesses an abundance of infrastructure not yet converted to civilian use. To
achieve its objectives, SBMA must tap all these assets to strengthen the competitiveness of the SBF
vis-a-vis other free trade regimes elsewhere.
SBF's Target Sectors
2.8    Based on the competitive strengths that have emerged in the development of the SBF to date
and on the investment and employment trends that have become apparent in the global marketplace,
SBMA proposes to focus its promotional efforts in attracting investors in three major sectors--
services, manufacturing and tourism. The service industry will be attracted to the SBF by the
communications and speed capability, the English speaking work force, the quality of life, the
existing nucleus of support industry, and the fast market access offered by the SBF hub facilities.
Target sub-sectors include software, training, consultancy, telecommunications and broadcasting,
backroom services, publishing, servicing and distribution, financial services, shipping and transport
equipment repair.



- 8-
2.9    Manufacturing industry will be attracted by the location of the SBF relative to the Asian
marketplace; the cost competitiveness of producing in the SBF, the excellent linkages and speed of
production, and the quality of life for senior and middle executives. Target sub-sectors include
electronics assembly, components for the electronics and automotive industries, telecommunications
hardware, and packaging including metalwork and plastics. Tourists will be attracted to the SBF
because it offers a wide range of activities in one place, and suitable activities for a wide range of
people. The natural environment, security and support services, and efficiency all add to the tourism
product in the SBF. It is envisaged that the SBF will become a theme park over time--the theme
being quality of life in an excellent environment. SBF as a tourism destination will appeal to local
visitors seeking a multi-activity short term break, international visitors flown directly from regional
destinations on specific package tours, two-location package tourists, meetings incentive conference
and exhibition tourists.
Development Strategy
2.10   The key elements of SBMA's development strategy are to:
(a)    invest in additional infrastructure and seek to attract support industries in order to
increase the attractiveness of the SBF as a potential location for target industries.
The infrastructure investments planned under Subic II are designed to address some
of those needs, particularly in water supply, power distribution, and roads and
bridges;
(b)    use the momentum and quality already developed at the SBF to increase value added
by SBF enterprises, spinning lower value added activities into the wider region over
time. This is the SBF as an engine for growth;
(c)    exert a unified planning and development role throughout the area covered by the
metes and bounds of R.A. 7227 which defined the SBF zone, and solidify the role of
the SBF through a series of institutional changes, backed by legislation where
necessary;
(d)    develop the Central Area of the SBF for mixed use (commercial, tourism  and
residential) in line with the master plan currently developed for the area; and
(e)    restructure itself into three distinct units in order to effectively tackle three
components of its mission: administrator of the freeport regime, exerciser of
municipal authority and owner of the inherited assets in the secured area.
2.11   SBMA's strategy is to achieve efficiency in the delivery of services flowing from its inherited
assets by devolving managerial control to the private sector through concession contracts. It's
strategy for engaging the private sector as a development partner is thus a critical component of the
corporate plan. To date the strategy has been to invite the private sector to participate directly with
SBMA in various endeavors. Examples include the industrial parks, the golf course, the marina,
telecommunications and--under the proposed project--water supply.
2.12   As regards its governance functions, SBMA has acknowledged the need to transform itself
over time into a full-fledged regulatory and promotional authority, equipped to uphold the Freeport
policy regime and to provide an attractive investment climate for the private sector. The institutional



- 9-
support component of Subic II would strengthen SBMA's role as a Freeport administrator and public
sector catalyst of private sector development. In particular, Subic II will enhance SBMA's regulatory
capability while ensuring that it remains effective in promoting the Freeport. Completion of the
corporate plan acceptable to the Bank--and that plan's acceptance by SBMA's Board of Directors--is
a condition of effectiveness. Agreement was reached at negotiations that SBMA would furnish to the
Bank, at mid-term review, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the corporate plan.



3. THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1    Subic I's objective was to attract private investors to the Freeport by improving its
infrastructure and strengthening SBMA's management capacity. The Freeport has, however, grown
much more quickly than anticipated, putting unexpected strains on SBMA's management capacity
and accelerating its need to evolve institutionally and provide infrastructure services. The proposed
successor Subic II Project would aim to continue strengthening SBMA's capacity to regulate and
manage the growth of the Freeport, and support further infrastructure development-including
SBMA's initial venture into partnership with the private sector through a water supply joint venture.
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2   The Second Subic Bay Freeport Project would utilize a US$60 million IBRD loan to support
a US$108 million project to strengthen SBMA and its Ecology Center (five percent of project costs),
provide treated water (36 percent), improve power distribution (29 percent), and improve transport
infrastructure (31 percent). The Project would be carried out by SBMA over 3 1/2 years (January
1997-July 2000). Its components are described below:
3.3   Institutional Strengthening (US$4.6 million). The first Subic Bay Freeport Project
included technical assistance to strengthen SBMA's institutional capacity in freeport administration
and policy development including: (a) a merchandise control system to monitor duty-free purchases;
(b) zoning regulations and a building design code for the SBF; (c) an automated computer-based,
financial management system to track SBMA's revenues and ensure timely billing; (d) a privatization
assistance fund for specialized advice on specific transactions, and (e) a team of freeport advisors to
improve SBF administration.
3.4    While significant progress has been made in each of these areas, the March 1996 Mid-Term
Review of Subic I showed that the Freeport's rapid growth requires further strengthening of SBMA's
regulatory capacity for two reasons: (a) commercial/industrial growth has forced SBMA to
concentrate more of its efforts than expected on promotion and property management, so that
institution building has lagged, and (b) the growth itself has created a need for greater management
competence in such areas as customs and taxation, banking and financial services, water supply,
sewerage; labor, health and safety standards; environmental management and monitoring and the
capacity to conduct social impact assessments, and human resources development and training. This
component comprises:
(a) capacity building on freeport policy through a package of short- and long-term technical
assistance in key areas including customs, taxation, and incentives;



- 11 -
(b) human resources management assistance to assess SBMA's skills mix needs vis-&-vis its
corporate objectives and develop staff training programs;
(c) commercialization, privatization, and planning support to further facilitate conversion
through commercialization and privatization measures;
(d) studies of critical technical issues identified during implementation; to qualify, the studies
must relate to issues affecting the competitiveness of the SBF and its attractiveness to
investors;
(e) technical assistance support to SBMA's Foreign-Assisted Project Office for two advisors
to strengthen its capability in procurement and financial management; and
(f) Support to SBMA's Ecology Center to strengthen the Center's capacity for
environmental management, monitoring and regulation, and impact assessment through
recruitment of two social development specialists to facilitate property acquisition for the
water supply component, community outreach assistance to provide technical guidance,
equipment, and on-the-job training in community outreach practices to the Ecology
Center, and development of community-based forest management, community
development, and training and infrastructure improvements in Pastolan Village.
3.5    Outline terms of reference for the above activities are in the project implementation plan.
3.6    Water Supply (US$32.6 million). This component is designed to increase the quantity of
treated water available in the Secured Area, Olongapo City, and Subic Town through a public-private
joint venture-Subic Water & Sewerage, Inc.-involving SBMA, Biwater International (a UK-based
water supply firm), and a Filipino construction firm. Subic Water would also be responsible for
sewage collection within its franchised area.
3.7    The 66 million liters a day (MLD) produced by the separate water supply and distribution
facilities now  operated by SBMA-for the Secured Area-and the Olongapo City Water
District-serving Olongapo and Subic Town-are being fully absorbed. Demand is projected to rise
to 230 MLD by 2010. Capacity will have to be raised an additional 175 MLD-including an
allowance for drought years-to meet this demand.
3.8   Performance testing, trial production wells, and geophysical and geological investigations
have shown that a well field in the vicinity of the confluence of the Pamatawan, Camachile, and
Laglaboson Rivers could produce the required 175 MLD. A model was developed to guide the
selection of locations for the individual wells and assess potential impact on other users (see
Chapter 5, Environmental and Social Impact). SBMA has applied to the National Water Resources
Board for a water permit for the proposed withdrawal, and initiated a program to monitor streamflow
at the Pamatawan River near the proposed well field sites during the dry season.
3.9   Subic Water & Sewerage Inc. (Subic Water) will set the water rates for its domestic,
commercial, industrial and institutional customers.  Over the four years 1997-2000, capital
investments by the joint venture will total about US$88.5 million, of which SBMA would finance
installations worth US$32.6 million under Subic II. This private-public joint venture is a pilot
initiative which may well be replicated in other parts of the country.



- 12 -
3.10   There is no national regulatory board at present in the Philippines.  As a transitional
arrangement, SBMA intends to regulate for Subic Water until a National Water Regulatory Board is
established. Although Bank financing of the water supply component under the proposed project is
limited to the development of the well field, water treatment and raw and treated water transmission
mains, the economic viability of the investment is impacted by the commercial viability of Subic
Water. The Bank has reviewed the terms and conditions of the legal agreements covering the
regulatory arrangements between SBMA and Subic Water, and found them satisfactory.
3.11  The component would involve:
(a) detailed engineering and the development of the Pamatawan well field. Twenty wells
with an average capacity of 450m3/hour will be dug. Initially, 12 of the 20 wells south of
the Pamatawan River will be equipped. Provision will be made to accommodate future
connections for the remaining 8 wells;
(b) construction of approximately 7,600 meters of raw water transmission main from the
Pamatawan well field to a water treatment plant at Castillejos. The routing of the raw
water transmission main will be totally within the roadway right of way. No easement
acquisition will be required (see Environmental and Social Impacts, Chapter 5);
(c) construction of electrical power transmission lines to the well field and treatment plant;
(d) construction of a water treatment plant and a booster station. The proposed treatment
process consists of aeration, sedimentation, and chlorination. The booster station will
deliver the treated water to the water distribution system through the treated water
transmission main;
(e) construction of approximately 19,400 meters of treated-water transmission main from the
treatment plant to a pool of storage reservoirs located just inside the Kalaklan Gate of the
secured area. The routing of the transmission line will be within the highway right-of-
way and will include eight river crossings;
(f) installation of a ground water monitoring network for monitoring the ground water table
and water chemistry at the Pamatawan well field;
(g) reforestation in the Pamatawan River basin to improve the aquifer recharging process;
and
(h) consulting services for a hydrological study of the Morong River and the Hermosa-
Dinalupihan aquifer to identify water supply sources to meet the long-term water supply
needs of Hermosa and Morong.
3.12   The assets and debts resulting from these investments will be owned entirely by SBMA; no
on-lending is involved. Details of the water supply component, including the structure for privatizing
the water and sewer facilities and outline terms of reference for the technical designs, construction
supervision and studies are in the project implementation plan. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that SBMA will conclude a water sales contract with Subic Water by December 31,
1998. Further, a condition of effectiveness is that the Subic Water Joint Venture Agreement shall
have become effective in accordance with its terms.



- 13 -
3.13   Power Distribution (US$26.1 million). This component would merge the Olongapo City
Public Utilities Department (PUD) and SBMA's Power Services Department (PSD). There is
considerable scope for combining resources to achieve efficiencies by sharing manpower and
common facilities. Merging Olongapo's PUD and SMBA's PSD operational and administrative
functions will relieve their space constraints by moving to a new headquarters building, establishing
common storage, maintenance and training facilities, and rationalizing existing facilities. The merger
will also strengthen commercial operations, and improve revenue opportunities and customer service.
The proposed rationalization and consolidation of these two small power distributors under the
proposed project will bring about significant economies of scale and are in line with the
recommendations for power sector reforms in the Bank's November 1995 Power Sector Restructuring
Report. Electricity demand in SBMA, while lower than it was when the Naval Base was in full
operation, is growing rapidly as new industries come into operation. This has not, however,
translated into a corresponding increase in revenues, as most facilities at the base lacked electric
meters and it is estimated that more than half of water and power consumption is not billed. Meter
installation in those facilities under Subic II is, thus, expected to lead to a significant increase in
SBMA's revenues.
3.14   The National Power Corporation (NPC) now supplies 16 MW in Olongapo City and 10 MW
to SBMA, and their joint demand is expected to increase about 14 percent a year to around 55 MW in
2002. If the respective hourly demands are combined to be metered as a single NPC consumer,
studies show total demand will be lower by about ten percent. This growth rate is the basis for the
design of the system reinforcement plans under Subic II.
3.15   About 200 km of the network is overhead, with 100 km underground. Most of the overhead
network in the Secured Area is in good condition, with some sections requiring upgrading to carry the
forecast area loads. About 20 km of new underground cable is required to replace sections which
have deteriorated and to improve the environmental character of the system in waterfront areas. The
switchgears are old and need to be replaced and an inventory of spare parts is needed to effect proper
maintenance of existing equipment.
3.16   The two power distribution agencies have high non-technical losses that urgently need to be
monitored and reduced. This will require a major review of metering requirements to (a) establish a
method of accounting for administrative consumption (currently estimated to be about 40 percent of
SBMA's total consumption), (b) provide individual meters on all domestic consumers in SBMA
housing areas, and (c) undertake a systematic re-calibration and, if necessary, replacement of all
consumer owned meters in the Olongapo franchise area. In addition, it will be necessary to upgrade
the existing Olongapo computer billing system to process the bills for all consumers in the supply
area and to provide basic information for management and monitoring of the loss reduction program.
3.17   The Olongapo distribution system is over 40 years old and shows signs of rapid deterioration.
Many of its wooden poles have been attacked by termites and are in danger of collapsing during
typhoons. Conductor sizes are generally too small, with high technical losses (estimated at about 15
percent of consumption) and serious voltage regulation problem. Most of the original power factor
correction capacitors have failed and are out of service. The lack of adequate maintenance facilities
makes repair work impossible, and when failures occur, the lack of replacements is increasing the
incidence of overloading of adjacent equipment. While the situation has not yet reached intolerable
levels, it is evident that as demand increases, serious failures are likely to become a chronic problem.
The project would consist of:



-14-
(a) construction of about 23 km of overhead and about 3 km of underground 69 kV sub-
transmission circuits, together with the expansion of five existing 69/13.8 kV substations
and the construction of one new 69/13.8 kV substation, to effect the interconnection of
the Olongapo and SBMA franchise area;
(b) installation of about 20 km of 13.8 kV cables to replace damaged cables and to enhance
the environment of prime waterside locations in SBMA's area;
(c) rehabilitation and extension of about 50 km of 13.8 kV and 50 km of LV systems,
including replacement of 4.1 kV system in Olongapo City;
(d) provision of facilities and equipment for the integrated power distribution network,
including electric meters and meter test equipment, storage and maintenance facilities,
administrative office, meter test and repair facilities, office equipment, and MIS and
billing systems.
(e) engineering services for the supervision of installation, including strengthening the
technical capability of the merged operations; and
(f) technical assistance, training, and management services to establish commercial
operation in the integrated organization including billing, accounting and administration.
3.18   The assets and debts resulting from these investments will be owned entirely by SBMA; no
on-lending will be involved. SBMA has agreed to enter into a contractual relationship with Olongapo
City to establish a legal basis for SBMA to undertake investments in power distribution outside the
secured area. A satisfactory power distribution contract between SBMA and Olongapo City was
concluded and submitted to the Bank prior to negotiations. Details of the power distribution
component, including outline terms of reference and the contractual agreement, are in the project
implementation plan.
3.19   Roads, Bridges and Related Infrastructure (US$28.1 million). The roads and bridges
under SBMA's jurisdiction need increased maintenance and must be expanded and upgraded to
prevent traffic congestion from becoming a major constraint on Subic's continued development.
While SBMA intends to carry out road maintenance and construction by contracting to the private
sector, its ability to plan, supervise, and manage these functions needs strengthening.
3.20   Under the U.S. Navy maintenance and construction activities were carried out by force
account, and SBMA did not inherit a functioning maintenance system. As SBMA's immediate
priority was to get the Freeport functioning, little maintenance was carried out in the initial period and
many roads are exhibiting signs of structural fatigue and failure. During project preparations
consultants identified a limited program of emergency maintenance that is to be contracted out with
SBMA funding.
3.21   SBMA's Public Works Group (PWG) has only recently obtained a recurrent budget to begin
a routine maintenance program in 1996. The initial program is small and constrained by lack of
adequate resources-funding is only P 4.8 million-but a critical institutional precedent of providing
an annual recurrent budget for road and bridge maintenance has been set.
3.22   This component is designed to improve road capacity and access, retrofit and construct
bridges, establish a maintenance program, and strengthen SBMA's capacity to procure and supervise



- 15 -
works to enable industrial and commercial development of the SBF. These would be accomplished
through:
(a) road improvement, including (i) widening Rizal Highway to four lanes plus turning lanes
from Kalalake Bridge to the SBMA Expressway, (ii) widening Argonaut Highway from
the Industrial Park (Phase I) Access Road to Boton Road to three lanes, (iii) widening the
link from Tipo Road to Binitican Bridge to four lanes, and building a new SBMA
expressway extension from Binitican Bridge to join Argonaut Highway near Boton
bridge, and (iv) improving signalization and channelization at key intersections in the
SBF;
(b) rehabilitation and retrofitting (including design, construction and construction supervision
of works) four existing bridges-Kalalake, Malawaan, Boton and Binitican-to meet the
latest seismic design codes;
(c) provision for a new bridge to replace the Kalaklan bridge, including studies, detailed
engineering, construction supervision and construction under the project;
(d) carrying out a road maintenance study and establishing a maintenance management
system for roads and bridges and training of SBMA's PWG in its use and in the
procurement and supervision of the contractors who would carry out both recurrent and
periodic maintenance;
(e) a road alignment study for the SBFZ By-Pass to improve traffic flow in the long term in
the freeport by ensuring that through traffic on the national highway between
Dinalupihan and Castillejos would bypass the SBFZ;
(f) improvements in related infrastructure including (i) conducting detailed surveys of
jurisdictional boundaries and installation of metes and bounds monuments,
(ii) construction of a security fence along part of the SBFZ boundary, (iii) aerial
photography and mapping of the SBFZ, and (iv) establishment of a geographical
information system; and
(g) consulting services for detailed engineering and construction supervision for the civil
works components and a TA Road Advisor to strengthen the PWG's capability to
implement this component of the project.
3.23   Details of the Roads, Bridges and Related Infrastructure component, including outline terms
of references are in the project implementation plan. Agreement was reached atnegotiations, that
SBMA will review the conclusions and recommendations of the maintenance management study with
the Bank by March 31, 1998, with a view to defining the routine and periodic maintenance works
programs and corresponding budgets to be implemented during the remainder of the project.



-16-
C.    COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
3.24   The estimated base cost of the proposed project is P 2,377 million (US$91.4 million
equivalent) with total project costs, including contingencies, being P 3,068 million (US$108.0
million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of about 60 percent or P 1,854 million
(US$65.4 million). Physical contingencies represent about 12 percent of base costs, while price
contingencies amount to about six percent in the US$ cost estimates. Physical contingencies of 15
percent have been applied on base costs for civil works and equipment and 10 percent on operating
costs. Price contingencies were applied on base costs plus physical contingencies as shown in Table
3.1 below. Table 3.2 summarizes the cost estimates, details of which are presented in Annex 4.
Constant purchasing parity exchange rate was used to convert US Dollar amounts to Peso
equivalents.
Table3.1: Price Contingencies
Contingencies:       1997          1998          1999          2000
Local Costs          7.0%          6.0%          6.0%          5.0%
Foreign Costs        2.4%          2.4%          2.4%          2.4%
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
-------Million Pesos---------  ---------Million US$--------
Components:                   Local  Foreign    Total  Local Foreign  Total % Base
A. Institutional Strengthening
-Institutional Support      18.6     87.0   105.6    0.7       3.3   4.0      4
-Ecology Center              1.8     12.0    13.8    0.1       0.5    0.6     1
B. Water Supply               365.4    481.9   847.3   14.1    18.5   32.6    36
C. Power Distribution         271.6    407.7   679.3   10.4    15.7  26.1    29
D. Roads and Bridges          275.4    455.9   731.3    10.6    17.5  28.1    31
Total Base Cost            932.8  1,444.5  2,377.3   35.9    55.5   91.4    100
Physical Contingencies        111.5    170.0   281.5    4.3       6.5   10.8    12
Price Contingencies           169.4    240.0   409.4    2.4       3.4   5.8       6
Total Costs              1,213.7  1,854.5  3,068.2   42.6    65.4  108.0    118
Percent:                     40       60      100      40      60   100
Financing
3.25   Total project costs will be financed as follows: a Bank loan of US$60.0 million is projected
to cover 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange of investment costs plus 100 percent of local
costs for consultants for the project. SBMA will finance the remaining local costs. The Bank loan
will be for a period of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based
interest rate for US$ Single Currency Loans. SBMA will bear the foreign exchange rate risk of the
loan. The loan will be guaranteed by the GOP. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the GOP
will provide this guarantee. The financing plan is summarized in Table 3.3 below.



- 17-
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Project Year               1997       1998        1999     2000   TOTAL   Percent
Annual Project
Costs
Investment costs            6.0       36.8        36.2      10.5      89.5      82.9
Operating costs             0.1        0.2         0.2      18.1      18.5      17.1
Total Financing             6.0       37.0        36.4      28.6     108.0     100.0
Required
Bank Loan                   2.2       14.0        24.2      19.6      60.0      55.6
SBMA                        3.8       23.0        12.2       9.0      48.0      44.4
D.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Management and Project Implementation Plan
3.26   The detailed elements of the organization and management of Subic II are set out in SBMA's
project implementation plan (PIP) which has been submitted to the Bank. As indicated in the PIP, the
proposed project would be carried out by SBMA. Under Subic I, SBMA has developed a structure
wherein the Deputy Administrator of Finance serves as Project Director supported by component
managers. This arrangement has been generally satisfactory and SBMA wishes to maintain this
structure for Subic II in order to take advantage of the knowledge already gained by core staff.
Nonetheless, based on lessons learned, the following enhancements would be made to increase the
effectiveness of project management.
3.27   The Deputy Administrator for Finance would continue to fill the role of Project Director for
the purposes of policy interface with the Bank. An individual will be assigned to the foreign assisted
projects office to function as Project Manager to perform the day to day tasks of project management
and oversight. The project manager will implement the project in conjunction with managers
assigned by SBMA to supervise specific components. Additional counterparts are required in the
areas of human resources management, freeport policy, incentives and regulatory interface,
community outreach and social impact. SBMA has finalized its proposed project staffing plan and
structure as part of the PIP and this was agreed at negotiations. Provision has also been made for two
advisors, one for procurement and the other for financial management. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that SBMA will maintain a project management structure acceptable to the Bank for the
overall implementation of the project, and will identify and assign personnel from its core staff to the
Project.
Performance Monitoring Indicators
3.28   SBMA's PIP includes performance monitoring indicators for each aspect of the proposed
project. In particular, there are three categories: (a) performance indicators relating to the institutional
strengthening component; (b) indicators relating to other components--power distribution, water
supply, and roads and bridges; and (c) general indicators of performance for the SBF as a whole. The
general indicators cover SBMA's projections of investments, employment creation by investors,
population, industrial buildings, and tourists for the period 1996-2005. The project-specific indicators



- 18 -
cover the objectives of each component of the project, the major activities and inputs required, the
expected outputs, and the results/impacts to be monitored during project implementation. Details of
the performance monitoring indicators are in Annex 5.
Financial Management
3.29   SBMA would be responsible for financial management of the project. The new, integrated,
PC-based Accounting/Management Information System (financed under Subic I), will allow SBMA
to establish separate project accounts which would provide management with key financial indicators
that are needed for effective monitoring of the project.  Such indicators would include cost
comparisons that would provide early warning of the need for any corrective actions relating to
over/underruns, and compliance with legal agreement covenants. The cost accounting feature of the
new financial management system will further permit SBMA to assess costs associated with
maintaining its infrastructure. Knowledge of such costs would help SBMA to determine the tariffs
that clients would be charged for water supply, power distribution and other services provided.
3.30   Based on the lessons learned from Subic I (see Chapter 1), a further innovation will be
introduced to ensure effective implementation of Subic II. To ease the workload of the Deputy
Administrator for Finance, the respective component managers will be made more accountable
commensurate with their level of responsibilities. Accordingly, it is proposed that checks for
payment of goods and/or services under the project would be signed by the component managers.
The Deputy Administrator for Finance would then countersign those checks in his capacity as Project
Director. This would afford component managers improved control as well as budget monitoring
capacity while at the same time maintaining the Project Director's oversight of project activities.
E.    PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Procurement
3.31   Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.4 below. The cost of
items described includes respective pro rata shares of physical and price contingencies. Acquisition
of land is the only project cost element entirely financed by SBMA and is under NBF. Land will be
procured according to applicable GOP procedures which have been reviewed and are satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.32   A majority of the Bank financed procurement for Civil Works, Goods and Services will
follow ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines for procurement of January, 1995 and
revised in January, 1996. Pre-qualification of contractors will be carried out for the laying of water
supply transmission mains and essential roads and bridge civil works contracts. A margin of
preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF bid price of imported goods, or the actual custom duty
whichever is lower, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers. A few contracts of relatively small
value such as bridge rehabilitation, reforestation, security fence and miscellaneous equipment -
computers, office equipment, etc., will follow NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, as these are
unlikely to attract foreign competition. Miscellaneous works costing less than US$10,000 equivalent
per contract with an aggregate value not exceeding US$50,000 may be procured with lump sum fixed
price contracts on the basis of three quotations from qualified contractors. Some urgently needed
miscellaneous equipment will be procured on the basis of national shopping as appropriate on the
basis of a minimum three quotations for individual contracts of less than US$50,000 with an



-19 -
aggregate value not exceeding US$0.3 million. As per the recent Country Procurement Assessment
report, NCB procedures are acceptable. However, SBMA has agreed to the use of appropriate
Standard Bidding Document (SBD's) issued by the Bank for ICB and to the use of SBD for Smaller
Civil Works. Consultancy services such as the detailed design, engineering, technical assistance,
including project management, construction supervision and studies will be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines for the use of Consultants; the Bank's standard form of
contract will be used for consultancy services. Further details of the procurement and implementation
arrangements by component are in the project implementation plan.
3.33   SBMA is the principal implementing agency responsible for carrying out the project,
including all procurement. This is the second project and the staff of SBMA has benefited from the
procurement experience gained in the earlier project. Consultants will be retained by SBMA to
prepare designs and bidding documents; and additionally supervise all major road, water supply and
power contracts. Provision has been made for appropriate technical assistance in procurement to
strengthen the existing SBMA staff as proposed in paragraph. 3.27. For all TA activities financed by
the proposed loan, SBMA will retain consultants according to terms of reference and selection
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and an action plan and timetable for carrying out studies and the
implementation of agreed recommendations.
3.34   Bank financed contracts above a threshold of US$0.5 million will be subject to the Bank's
prior review procedures. The review process will cover about 95 percent of total works and goods
contracts procured by ICB and NCB procedures. For consultancy contracts, the threshold for prior
review will be set at US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. In any event, all TORs,
including sole source selections of consultants regardless of the value of the contract, will be subject
to prior review. The post review of contracts will be carried out on the basis of one (1) in four (4)
contracts for goods and works.
3.35   Procurement information will be collected and recorded from comprehensive quarterly
reports to the Bank by SBMA indicating revised time schedule for procurement actions including
advertising, contract awards and completion time for individual contracts.



- 20 -
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
----------------- Procurement Method---------------------------
Items to be Procured              ICB         NCB       Other        NBF      TOTAL
Land Acquisition                                                     1.1        1.1
Works
Water Component                  13.8       5.5                              19.3
(8.0)    (3.3)                             (11.3)
Power Component                  15.0       4.8                    .3        20.1
(9.9)    (3.1)                             (13.0)
Roads Component                  18.6       7.7                    3.2       29.5
(11.5)    (4.7)                             (16.2)
Goods
Water Component                   3.3                                         3.3
(3.3)                                       (3.3)
Institutional Component          3.9                                          3.9
(3.9)                                       (3.9)
Consultants' Services
Engineering Supervision                                8.0                    8.0
(8.0)                 (8.0)
Technical Assistance                                   4.0                    4.0
(4.0)                 (4.0)
Training                                               0.3                    0.3
(0.3)                 (0.3)
Operation and Maintenance                                            18.5       18.5
54.6      18.0       12.3        23.1       108.0
TOTALS                             (36.6)    (11.1)      (12.3)                 (60.0)
Figures in Parentheses represent anount financed by the Bank Loan.
NME:  Non Bank Financed.
Disbursements
3.36   It is assumed that the loan will become effective by January 1997, and that the project will be
completed by June 30, 2000. The scheduled disbursements are shown in Annex 6. The Bank loan
will be disbursed against the categories shown in Table 3.5 below.
3.37   Disbursements for all expenditures would be based on full documentation except for
(i) contracts for works and equipment that cost less than US$500,000 equivalent, and (ii) contracts for
consulting services for US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals.
Supporting documents for disbursements based on statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be kept
by SBMA for review by external auditors and Bank supervision missions. As under Subic I, SBMA
will open a US$ denominated Special Account in a commercial bank to facilitate payments for
eligible expenditures.



-21 -
Table 3.5: Disbursement Categories
Amount
Category                          (US$ Million)     % Expenditure Financed
1. (a) Civil Works Water              10.0          60%
(b) Other Civil Works              26.3          60%
2. (a) Equipment Water                 2.9          100% of foreign, 100% local (ex-
factory cost), and 70%, of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
(b) Other Equipment                 4.2          Same as (a)
3. (a) Consultants for Water           3.1          100%
(b) Other Consultants               8.1          100%
4. Unallocated                         5.4
TOTAL                              60.0
3.38   There are two conditions of disbursement against the water supply component, Categories
l(a), 2(a) and 3(a): (a) obtaining a water permit from NWRB for the proposed abstraction of water
from the Pamatawan well field; and (b) that SBMA will enter into a"heads of agreement" with Subic
Water satisfactory to the Bank establishing the principal terms and conditions for the water sales
agreement. The Account would have an Authorized Allocation of US$2.0 million; however, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of US$1.0 million until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
shall be equal to or exceed US$30.0 million.
F.    SUPERVISION, MONITORING, REPORTING, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
Supervision and Monitoring
3.39   The proposed project will require greater than average supervision resources.  This is
principally because of three significant and distinct investment sub-components: water supply, power
distribution, and roads and bridges. Moreover, the progress on complex freeport policy and
institutional issues will need close supervision. As regards the sub-components, water supply, for
instance, cannot be supervised in isolation from Subic Water's on-going activities as this company
would execute the operation and maintenance on behalf of SBMA as well as purchase the bulk water
produced by the component. Similarly, for the power distribution component, Bank missions will
have to monitor the activities relating to the proposed consolidation of power distribution in the
OlongapolSBMA franchise area.
3.40   The key indicators of performance in SBMA's PIP-see paragraph 3.28-would be monitored
closely during supervision missions to facilitate decision making by management, both SBMA and
the Bank. Project supervision by the Bank will follow the supervision plan presented in Annex 7.
Bank supervision will require an estimated 79 staff weeks over the life of the project. These
estimates have taken into consideration provisions for supervision of the first project as both Subic I
and II will be jointly supervised. Supervision would be carried out by Bank staff and consultants with
expertise in infrastructure development (water supply, power distribution and roads and bridges),
Freeport policy and institutional development, financial and environmental management. The teams



- 22 -
would also be complemented by a privatization specialist to assess progress with the conversion of
utilities. SBMA will supervise the project on an ongoing basis through a designated project manager,
assisted by technical and financial staff within the institution as required. Further details of the
planned implementation schedule are in the project implementation plan.
3.41   A mid-term review of the project would be carried out after the second project year, estimated
in December 1998. The review would be carried out jointly by the Government/SBMA and the Bank,
with SBMA's project manager responsible for preparatory arrangements and coordination. The main
purpose of the review will be to assess progress accomplished in carrying out the project and
SBMA's Corporate Plan. Agreement to this effect was reached at negotiations.
Reporting, Accounts and Auditing
3.42   The integrated financial and management information system, currently under installation,
will give SBMA the capacity to systematically report key indicators of progress of all foreign
financed development projects. This will include provision for separate accounting for each
individual project, including Subic I and II. The system will permit SBMA to generate progress
reports tailored to the needs of the Bank and, in particular, visiting supervision missions.
3.43   SBMA's consolidated accounts (Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Statement) will be
audited annually by The Commission of Audit (COA), an arrangement which is acceptable to the
Bank. Separate project accounts indicating the various sources of funds received and expended
would be maintained ensuring that proper accounting and auditing procedures are followed. As part
of the audit process, the project's annual financial statements, together with the auditor's report and
opinion on the financial statements and the Special Account, and the auditor's separate opinion on the
statement of expenditures would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. While provisional financial statements should be submitted to the Bank no later than a month
after the closing of the fiscal year, the audit report should reach the Bank no later than six months
after the close of each fiscal year. Agreement to this effect was reached at negotiations. Agreement
was also reached that SBMA would carry out satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of
the project in accordance with agreed performance indicators in terms of physical execution and
financial reports and furnish the Bank semi-annual progress reports.



4. PROJECT FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.    SBMA's FINANCIAL POSITION
Recent Financial Results
4.1    As a Government owned organization, SBMA follows standard GOP financial management
procedures. Those include an accounting plan that must be approved annually by the Commission
and Audit (COA), and procurement methods and financial management practices that are slow and
cumbersome. While accounting entries are still done manually, an improved financial management
information system, including automated billing, is being installed and will be operational by end-
1996.
4.2   In its three years of existence, SBMA has had little time to focus on fine tuning its in-house
capacity to manage income and expenditures generated by infrastructure assets (including land)
estimated to be worth P 22 billion (US$830 million). SBMA is, however, retaining consultants to
help it design a cost accounting system with the capacity to account separately for individual
development projects, including Subic I and II. This system will also permit SBMA to generate
detailed monthly financial progress reports, including key financial indicators.
4.3    Although SBMA's income from operations has steadily increased over its first three years
(Table 4.1) revenue growth has been slower than projected at appraisal of Subic I, largely because the
Authority has not yet developed the infrastructuresuch as electric and water meters-needed for
full cost recovery under its lease arrangements. These issues will be addressed under the proposed
project (Chapter 3). Revenues, nonetheless, doubled in SBMA's second year of operations, and rose
37 percent in the third. Lease income from facilities, including residential housing, remains SBMA's
main source of revenue. Overall revenues from operations, however, were not sufficient in any of the
three years to cover operating expenditures, as SBMA's asset base is very large and the resulting,
estimated annual depreciation charges represent about 50 percent of annual operating expenditures.
Fixed assets are carried on the books at the value imputed as a result of a GOP authorized capital of
P 20 billion, consisting of a P 1.0 billion in cash capital infusion from GOP and P 19 billion
representing the estimated value of transferred assets from the former naval base. SBMA's income
generating capacity at this juncture is significantly underdeveloped and its potential to raise additional
revenue is considerable.
4.4    The current market value of SBMA's fixed assets taken over from the naval base is unknown,
as none of them have been revalued (except those assets related to the water supply system). SBMA
has opted to incur the expense of asset revaluation only if and when deemed necessary for
corporatization. Water supply assets were revalued because negotiations for such an undertaking are
in progress (Chapter 3).



- 24 -
Table 4.1: SBMA Income Generation
(Peso Million)
% over                    % over
Income From:                1993       1994        1993         1995          1994
Leases                      146.0      311.7       113         298.4           -4
Business Operations          27.2       66.2       143         224.9          240
Services (including Utilities)    19.6  32.5        66         124.6          283
Other                        35.3       67.0        90           6.9          -92
Total:                    228.1      477.4       109         654.8           37
4.5    SBMA's principal expenditures are for Depreciation and Salaries and Benefits, which
together account for 70 percent of the total. Table 4.2 below indicates the latest trends. As SBMA
has grown, Salaries and Benefits have increased the fastest, with the biggest portion of the increase
attributable to additional staff rather than salary increases. This category of expenditure is expected
to decline in line with the DBM-approved civil service allotment of 1,587 in contrast to SBMA's
current staff of 3,000 (Chapter 2). The cost of power, although accounting for only 11 percent of
expenditures, is also steadily increasing with the chief consumption going to the operations of the
airport and the water treatment plant.
Table 4.2: Operating Expenditures and Loss
(Peso Million)
Category of                                         % over                  % over
Expenditures:            1993         1994           1993         1995        1994
Salaries and Benefits     93.8        179.9           92         209.1         16
Depreciation             218.4        224.3            3         279.6         25
Power                     48.1         55.8           16          85.3         53
Other                     52.4         89.1           70         189.4        113
Total:                  412.7       549.1           33          763.4        39
Less Income Tax          228.1        477.4          109         654.8         37
Operating Loss:         184.6        71.7          -61          108.6        52
Financial Projections
4.6    The projections in Table 4.3 represent SBMA's five-year 1996-2000 investment plan. The
Subic I and II projects are an integral part of investments and account for about 80 percent of
investments through 2000. SBMA's projected threefold increase in revenues over 1996-2000 is
largely due to the impact of Subic I and II. Although in 1994 and 1995 revenues fell short of
estimates by 12 and 34 percent, respectively, the projected increases are well within reach. During
appraisal of Subic II, the ten-year estimates contained in the Subic I Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
were reviewed and revised in light of the experience gained during the first three years. With the
assistance that will be provided under Subic II to manage power distribution and the contracting out



- 25 -
of water supply operations and management to Subic Water, income from the sale of utility services
will assume an increasing importance in SBMA's income statement. Other services represent chiefly
income from operating the airport, distribution of power within the secured area to industrial and
commercial investors, hotels and other tourism-related concerns and private households. It is
anticipated that by end-1997 the majority of enterprises in the Taiwanese industrial park will begin
operations. SBMA recognizes the need to maximize income from its assets and Subic II will provide
electric meters and support an aggressive campaign to install them.
4.7    Although tariff calculations for power were done during appraisal on an indicative basis using
incremental investments proposed under Subic II, the residual value of previous investments needs to
be known to allow SBMA to recalculate tariffs to provide full cost recovery for the electricity it
provides. SBMA, therefore, will undertake a major effort to increase efficiency in power distribution
to its investors and private households. This will include a valuation of existing assets, installation of
meters and corresponding tariff adjustments. This process has begun for water supply. Assets have
been revalued and were contributed as a 20 percent share in kind to Subic Water, which will install
individual water meters in residential quarters under Subic II. Table 4.3 below indicates SBMA's
projected key financial indicators over the next five years.
Table 4.3: SBMA's Projected Key Financial Indicators 1996 - 2000
(US$ million)
Key Indicators                   1996         1997        1998         1999        2000
Revenue
- From Existing Leases           11.1        10.0          8.9         6.9          6.6
- Other Services                 28.1        44.1         60.0        70.3        66.5
- Utilities (Subic II)                                     7.7        15.5        36.2
Total Revenue                     39.1         54.1        76.6         92.7       109.3
Operating Expenditures
- Utilities (Subic II)                                    11.0        21.9        24.8
- Other                          47.5        49.8         52.3        53.0        61.3
Total Operating Expenditures      47.5         49.8        63.3         74.9        86.1
Net Income (Loss)                 (8.4)         4.3        13.3         17.8        23.2
Net SBMA Cash Surplus
- (consolidated)                  0.5         9.2         19.1         2.4          7.0
Net Equity                       729.3        717.4       712.9        711.0       709.5
Long-term Debt                    75.4         80.4       101.5        147.2       151.2
Ratios:
- Debt Service
Coverage (times)               7.47         2.51        2.64         1.99        2.86
Debt/Equity (%)                20.6         28.6        33.7         32.8        31.4
4.8    Given the dynamic situation with respect to potential privatization of SBMA's commercially
oriented activities, medium-term projections are only indicative and were carried out under the
assumption that SBMA retains control over its 1996 asset base through the year 2000. Because of the



- 26 -
unique nature of SBMA's business as it evolves from a multi-purpose authority, combining
commercial and regulatory activities, to a lean regulatory agency, traditional key financial indicators
such as "current ratio" and "return on assets", which are mainly designed to measure commercial
operating performance, are of little significance. More important are ratios that measure SBMA's
capacity to absorb debt; for example, the debt service coverage and the debt equity ratios. As
indicated in Table 4.3, these ratios remain very healthy throughout the life of the project. With 2.86
times and 31.4 percent, respectively, in the year 2000, for the debt service coverage and debt/equity,
these ratios are well within internationally acceptable limits. Further, although the incremental
project cash flow--see Annex 8, page 10--is not positive until the year 2003, as the costs of roads and
bridges are included, SBMA's consolidated cash flow remains positive throughout the project period
(see Table 4.3). Details of SBMA's cash surplus, projected revenue schedule and balance sheet are in
Annex 8 (pages 11-13). While these figures suggest that SBMA's current financial health is
satisfactory, SBMA needs to be vigilant to keep costs from rising faster than revenue generating
activities. Therefore, it will be necessary to continue to carefully review the five-year investment
plan with the Bank no later than March 31 of each fiscal year. Agreement to this effect was reached
at negotiations. Agreement was also reached that SBMA will continue to maintain appropriate
insurance coverage, or adequate reserves for, and proper maintenance of its facilities, and continue to
maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more than 70:30; of a debt service coverage of at least 1:5 from
1996 onwards.
B.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.9    A financial analysis has been undertaken for the water supply and power distribution
components of the project. Additionally, an analysis has been undertaken of SBMA to enable an
assessment of cash needed by SBMA to finance capital works, operating expenses, interest
commitments and capital repayments of the project. The latter analysis is necessary as the roads and
bridges and institutional strengthening components are not covered by either the water supply or
power distribution financial analyses. The financial rate of return has been assessed for these two
components but not for the overall project because a large part of the overall project cost is non-
revenue generating.
4.10   Operation and maintenance of SBMA's utility services is managed by the Public Works
Group (PWG). Within the PWG, the Utilities Department is split into three divisions: power services,
water services and utility planning. The Utilities Department is staffed by 131 persons divided 57,
48, and 16 between water, power, and planning, respectively. Key staff of the Utilities Department
were taken over from the U.S. military. However, owing to difficulties in procuring operating and
maintenance equipment, the department is only performing maintenance services on an ad hoc basis.
There is no routine, preventive maintenance being carried out on installations. Given the rapid
economic expansion within the SBF, it is SBMA's intention to pool its resources, including operation
and maintenance of utilities with those of Olongapo City to achieve economies of scale. At this
juncture, the institutional arrangements have already been determined for the distribution of water
(Subic Water), including utility ownership. Subic Water will absorb all of SBMA's personnel
associated with operating the water supply installations. For power distribution, the City of
Olongapo's Power Utility Department (PUD) will coordinate its operations with those of SBMA
under a contractual agreement (See Chapter 3).
4.11   For the water supply component, the financial analysis is based on incremental investment
and operating costs for the provision of treated water in bulk to the newly created Subic Water.



- 27 -
Agreement was reached at negotiations that SBMA will conclude a water sales contract with Subic
Water by December 31, 1998. For the power distribution component, the financial analysis is based
on the incremental investment and operating costs and on tariffs currently charged by SBMA and
Olongapo City. These rates will be reviewed following the completion of tariff studies and cost
recovery options to be financed under the project.
4.12   The overall design of the service provision components (water, power and roads) is based on
the population projections in Annex 1.  Population growth of 8.7 percent a year has been
assumed-compared to about 5.7 percent for other urban centers in the Philippines-to reflect the
attraction of Subic's rapidly expanding economic activity to job seekers and their families.
Summary of Financial Analysis
4.13   Annex 10 provides details of the underlying assumptions for the financial analysis of the
water supply and power distribution components of the project, including the bulk and retail water
tariffs, power distribution tariffs for commercial and domestic consumers, the billing and collection
efficiency for both water supply and power distribution, and interest costs. Below is a summary of
the financial analysis.
4.14   Water Supply Component: Total investment capital cost of the water supply component,
including physical contingencies, is estimated to be P 698 million (US$26.9 million). Incremental
operating and maintenance costs are estimated at about P 200 million in 2000 rising to about P 400
million by 2010. (Power is estimated to make up about 80% of total operating costs.) Revenue
generation from the sale of treated bulk water is based on proposed tariffs as outlined in Annex 8 and
projected incremental consumption rates: (i) domestic 240 I/day; (ii) industrial 19 I/m2 of floor space;
(iii) commercial (office) 2.5 1/m2 of floor space daily; (iv) commercial (retail) 15 1/m2 of floor space
daily, and (v) hotels 2.5 I/m2 floor space daily. This projected demand is net of non-revenue water
costs. Non-revenue water is estimated at five percent of total water pumped. System losses are
expected to be zero. The analysis assumes that construction of the water installations will be
completed by 1999 and that 2000 will be a full revenue producing year. Annex 8 shows the
incremental costs and revenues.
4.15   Financial Rate of Return: Based on these assumptions, the FIRR for the water supply
component is 14.8 percent. The analysis shows that this component should generate a positive cash
flow (after interest) in its first full year of operation (the year 2000).
4.16   Power Distribution Component: Total investment capital cost of the power distribution
component, including physical contingencies, is estimated to be P 581 million (US$22.3 million. To
determine incremental unit costs per kWh, three activities were taken into consideration for operating
and maintaining the transmission and distribution system: (a) operating the 69 KV lines including
management of NPC billings; (b) costs of power purchases from NPC; and (c) personnel,
administrative, and direct operating and maintenance costs (fuel and lubricants for vehicles including
repairs) for the consolidated distribution activities of SBMA and Olongapo City. For purposes of
determining gross incremental revenue from SBMA and Olongapo City's sale of power, a domestic
consumer rate of P 3.18 per kWh was used, and P 4.6 per kWh was used for commercial consumers.
It should be noted that SBMA now charges its customers a uniform rate per kWh of P 2.75 and
Olongapo City P 3.50. Thus, while the new rate would represent a substantial increase for the
secured area, it is considered well within the capacity of domestic consumers to pay, especially as
these are mostly international clientele. The rate for domestic consumers in Olongapo City would be



- 28 -
nearly 10 percent lower than at present, thus increasing affordability and the potential customer base.
Annex 8 shows the incremental costs and revenues.
4.17   The analysis of SBMA's power distribution proposals revealed important financial concerns
which will play a critical role in the overall financial viability of the power distribution enterprise.
The major concerns are: (i) the current high level of usage and live losses; (ii) the current high level
of SBMA administrative usage; (iii) the current dependence of SBMA on NPC and their planned
tariff increases; and (iv) the retail cap which SBMA can charge for power. If SBMA charges
excessive rates, consumers will convert to their own generators. The analysis thus highlights the
importance for SBMA to structure its tariffs to extract maximum revenue without inhibiting demand.
It also highlights the importance of minimizing losses and bad debts and establishing a procedure for
minimizing administrative consumption.
4.18   Financial Rate of Return: Based on these assumptions, the FIRR for the power distribution
component is 18.7 percent. It is anticipated that this component will not show a positive net operating
revenue until the third full year of operation (the year 2002).



5. BENEFITS AND RISK
A.    PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1    The proposed project will increase the SBF's attractiveness to overseas investors and
encourage existing investors to expand their operations. This should speed job creation, raise SBMA
revenues, provide much-needed services to residents of Olongapo City and Subic town, and improve
administrative efficiency/governance throughout the Subic Bay metropolitan area. It is estimated that
as a direct result of project interventions SBF will create many new jobs most of which will occur in
industry with the balance in tourism-related services, commerce and administration. Judging from
similar development experiences in the sub-region, incremental export earnings per industrial
employee/year of about US$12,000 can be expected. Thus, by the turn of the century, SBMA
estimates that some US$600 million in export revenues would accrue to the Philippines. The type of
light industrial activity likely to take place in SBF will typically attract value added ratios of around
40 percent, which would translate into net foreign exchange earnings of about US$240 million by the
year 2000. This does not include income generated from such activities as tourism and commerce.
5.2    Direct benefits (annual incremental revenue) to SBMA from improved and expanded
provision of services for water, and power will be significant. The project will also improve the
administrative and operational efficiency of the power and water utilities which is a necessary step
toward corporatization and eventual privatization of these utilities. The provision of cleaner drinking
water to the population of Olongapo City and the associated improvements in the city's sewerage
system, would have an immediate, beneficial impact on the overall health of the population.
B.    SBMA OPERATIONS WITHOUT THE PROJECT
5.3   SBMA's water, power, and roads and related infrastructure installations and equipment were
built to serve the needs of the U.S. Navy. The infrastructure was in relatively good condition when it
was handed over to SBMA in November 1993. Since then, however, only perfunctory maintenance
work has been carried out and more than half of water and power consumption is not billed as meters
are not installed in most facilities in the former Naval Base. Without the road widening and extension
under the project, the planned development of industrial estates on the southeastern side of the
Freeport would be seriously constrained. This could reduce the number of jobs generated by the
industrial sites by 13,000 to 16,000 over five years; given the stiff competition within the ASEAN
region for industries seeking to locate in duty free zones, it is estimated that half the employment
which would be lost if the roads were not developed would also be lost to the economy as a whole.
5.4   There is almost no domestic term financing in the Philippines, and it would be difficult for
SBMA to assemble the integrated Subic II project package without a major multilateral lender such as
the Bank. SBMA's alternative would have been to continue to undertake patchwork repairs and
expansion work on an ad hoc basis. Although private firms have joined in a water supply/sewerage
joint venture with SBMA, there is no indication that the private sector is ready to participate in major



- 30-
investments to upgrade other utilities and infrastructure. Without the Subic II project framework the
urgent sewer works improvement under the water supply component would have been delayed to
2000, with negative environmental and health impacts.
C.    ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY
5.5    This project includes three key infrastructure components which are collectively necessary
for the continued development and expansion of the SBF. From the perspective of the economic
analysis, these three components (roads, water supply, and power distribution) cannot be evaluated
separately as each component is a necessary part of a total development program if the SBF is to
expand at the rate projected by SBMA (see Annex 5).
5.6    Benefits from a development similar to SBF are substantial and they range from direct visible
benefits such as increased employment and output to improved living standards and conditions. In
this project there will be two basic benefits: (i) an increase in development (and output) in planned
industrial parks and surrounding metropolitan areas; and (ii) the maintenance of existing businesses
and population in the SBF and surrounding metropolitan areas. For the economic analysis, only
estimated benefits from the increase in development were included. If the project were not to proceed
and existing businesses left SBF because of poor infrastructural services it is unlikely that they would
relocate outside the Philippines. Benefits from an increase in development have been measured in
terms of an increase in the number of people employed and their subsequent wages and water and
electricity sales from the facilities to be built under this project. It should be noted that a facility such
as SBF provides a total service so it is difficult to realistically isolate all benefits which may accrue
from this project which includes a number of works to upgrade and maintain existing facilities.
5.7    Annex 9 provides details of the underlying assumptions for the economic analysis of the
project, including an assessment of the employment benefits, benefits from the sale of water and
electricity and other assumptions used in the analysis. Based on these assumptions, the economic
intemal rate of return (EIRR) of the project is 29.6 percent.
5.8    The analysis in Annex 9 also illustrates the project's sensitivity to variations in benefits and
recurrent costs. A range of possibilities incorporating maximum and minimum expectations, are
covered. For the "maximum", or the base case, it is assumed that full benefits are obtained from
increased employment as outlined and tariff revenue for electricity and water. If however, water and
industrial development (employment) are - as for the base case, and live losses power increase from
8 percent to 30 percent, the EIRR falls from 29.6 percent to 20 percent. The EIRR is further
reduced-to 17.1 percent-if live losses (power) are increased from 8 percent to 20 percent, billing
efficiency (power) is lowered from 95 percent to 80 percent, and industrial development
(employment) is down by 20 percent. The other scenarios explored are in Annex 9. The analysis
assumes that affordability is not a problem for water and power. In the unlikely event that tariffs for
both water and power have to be increased simultaneously, affordability will become a problem for a
maximum of 30 percent of the population of Olongapo, the segment that lives below the poverty line.
5.9    Crossover (switching) values for the project are also provided in Annex 9. These indicate a
combination of changes in benefits and costs required to reduce the net present value (NPV) to zero
(or, alternatively, the rate of return to 12 percent, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in the
Philippines). Given the conservative assumptions used in the analysis the project is not particularly
sensitive to changes in revenue and costs. If benefits are reduced 25.3 percent and expenses
maintained at the base level the NPV falls to zero at a discount rate of 12 percent. If benefits are



- 31 -
maintained at the base rate recurrent expenses need to be increased by 41 percent to obtain a zero
NPV. Benefits need to be reduced by ten percent and recurrent expenses increased by 24.7 percent
simultaneously to obtain zero NPV.
5.10   Affordabilit. A demographic analysis of Olongapo City's population shows that some 20
percent of its families cannot afford water and electricity . The project's power and water supply
components are expected to generate savings from metered billing in the Secured Area, more efficient
administration, and economies of scale that will lead to lower tariffs for small consumers-the base
rate for small consumers is projected to drop from P 3.72 to P 3.18 per kWh-and should increase
affordability. Both Subic Water and the consolidated power utility will look closely at making power
and water available to the entire population of Olongapo City through appropriate rate structures.
The project provides for tariff studies for both water and power distribution. The discussion on power
tariffs in the financial analysis should be noted in the overall economic context of the project.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.11   The Bank's Subic I Project was designed to rehabilitate essential infrastructure to attract
private investors and provide institutional support to provide the basis for sustainable growth. The
major part of SBF's development is being undertaken by the private sector, which has led to
increased inflows of investment, rental and lease income for SBMA, and employment in the Freeport
area. It has also brought rapid population growth, estimated at 8.7 percent a year, and increased
demand for essential services. Water distribution is already in the process of being privatized. The
project would further assist SBMA to respond to the increased demand for services through
privatization support which would enhance efficiency, improve cost recovery and provide
sustainability. At the same time, the project would enhance SBMA's managerial, administrative and
regulatory capabilities, to create a viable and sustainable institution.  The protection of the
environment, necessary for sustainable development of the SBF, also continues to be a key concern of
SBMA. Environmental sustainability would be addressed through ongoing master planning of the
SBF (to take account of the faster than expected growth), and the proposed project interventions,
including the creation of GIS as well as continued support to the Ecology Center. Finally, the
improvements in the road network, together with those initiated under Subic I will continue to
enhance the development of the SBF.
E.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
5.12   The proposed project has been given a "B" rating and an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) has been carried out by SBMA's Ecology Center, established under Subic I. The EIA was
reviewed by the Bank and was found to be satisfactory.
5.13   The EIA shows that most of the project's impact will be temporary as a result ofphysical
construction (as in the roads and bridges and the renovation of power transmission lines), and will
result in some loss of cover vegetation, tree cover, and some disturbance to the urban population as
power lines are rehabilitated. The impact of the well field serving the water supply component has
been carefully assessed and satisfactory mitigation measures are included in the component design.
tPhilippines: Power Merger Studies of Olongapo City and SBMA. March 1996, Chapter 3.



- 32 -
5.14   The main environmental issue in this component is preventing the withdrawal of large
volumes of water from the aquifer from lowering the water table and affecting local wells. To
mitigate this risk the design calls for the wells to be spread out over a sufficiently large area to avoid
creating a deep cone of depression in the water table. The project will also finance the planting of
about 100,000 trees in the Pamatawan watershed to prevent erosion and maintain the local ecosystem.
There may be some decrease in groundwater levels, and financial provisions were made under the
project to replace the irrigation pumps of farmers with deeper-drawing models. The well field will
not involve resettlement, although land acquisition and compensation for lost assets, including crops,
are anticipated. SBMA has completed and submitted a property acquisition and compensation plan
(PACP) for the water supply component. This has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be
satisfactory.
5.15   The power distribution component will be confined largely to refurbishing and extending
transmission lines. National environmental codes for power transmission are precise and designed to
mitigate adverse effects. No resettlement is anticipated. The roads component will have no lasting
environmental impact.
5.16   SBMA is committed to environmental protection under the legal agreements of Subic I,
which requires the formulation of an environmental management plan, including the management of
Subic Forest and its small population of Aeta indigenous inhabitants. SBMA is drawing up an
expanded environmental management plan to include an indigenous peoples development plan,
which includes provisions for the development of community-based forest management, community
development and training, infrastructure improvements, and studies to formalize the Aetas' rights to
Subic Forest. These arrangements are consistent with Bank guidelines.
F.    RISKS
5.17   There are financial risks and other risks that need to be mitigated in this project. Perhaps the
greatest risk relates to the financial viability of SBMA's bulk water supply and power distribution
components. The financial analysis (Chapter 4) highlighted the importance of addressing: (a) the
adequacy of both water and power tariffs; (b) billing and collection efficiency; and (c) usage and live
losses. In the case of bulk water, the financial analysis is sensitive to the tariff charged by SBMA to
Subic Water. For instance, the FIRR of 14.8 percent is based on a tariff of P 9.5 per cubic meter. If
this tariff is reduced by 15 percent to P 8.0 per cubic meter, the FIRR falls to around 4.5 percent.
This risk has been taken into account in the draft commercial agreement between SBMA and Subic
Water and will be closely monitored by the Bank.
5.18   As regards the power distribution component, the financial analysis assumes that usage and
live losses and billing efficiency will improve significantly between 1996 and the year 2000.
Sensitivity analysis show that the FIRR will be reduced from 18.7 percent to 6.8 percent if the usage
and live losses were increased to 15 percent. A similar result was obtained if the billing efficiency or
the tariff level is reduced. These risks are being reviewed as part of the tariff studies and cost
recovery options to be financed under the project.
5.19   Other risks: There is some risk that the development of the Freeport policy regime from the
Secured Area to the wider freeport boundaries may encounter political resistance that could lead to
slippages in implementing the revenue-generating water, and power components that would increase
costs and require higher tariffs that would affect affordability. This is considered unlikely, however,
as the central Government has repeatedly reaffirmed its commitment to Subic's development and the



- 33 -
project will promote institutional linkages with neighboring government units through water districts
and the joint power distribution arrangement. In addition, the creation of an intergovernmental task
force to revise the implementing rules and regulations for eventual signature by the President should
strengthen SBMA's role as the administrator of the freeport zone.
5.20   The possibility of losing SBMA leadership, in the form of its visionary chairman or his
managerial front line, also poses a risk to the project. The inclusion of additional institutional
strengthening elements into Subic II is designed to address this need. It is essential that the strength
of the institution not be dependent upon the presence of a small group of individuals.
5.21   Continued flow of lahar (mud flows) from Mt. Pinatubo presents an additional risk to the
project. Flows precipitated by rains have blocked road access to the SBFZ for domestic tourists and
freeport shopping clientele on occasion. This is being mitigated by raising the San Fernando-
Dinalupihan road and building a high dike to stop lahar flows. In the longer term, completion of the
Northern Expressway-Tipo link will offer an alternate route. SBMA further expects to mitigate this
risk by improving air links and attracting a high speed ferry company to provide service between
Subic and Manila. A third airline recently began operations out of Subic, and the ferry is expected to
become operational shortly. The risks of lahar flows interfering with the physical components of the
project, i.e., water supply, is very low as a result of careful design and site selection.
5.22   While a slowdown in the Freeport's industrial/commercial development could affect project
sustainability, its infrastructure components are designed to lift the constraints that could lead to
endogenous problems. Slowing regional trade or world trade, or diminished confidence in Philippine
economic and political stability could, however affect Subic's growth. This would most likely reduce
the job-seeking population inflow below the forecast 8.7 percent; this could affect cost recovery, as a
one percent drop in the growth rate would lower annual utility revenues five to ten percent. Road and
bridge improvements are also based on projected traffic levels that are dependent on forecast
industrial development in the SBF. SBMA and Subic Water are, however, continually monitoring
population growth in Olongapo and, given that detailed design of components will not be undertaken
until spring 1997, adjustments in the light of most recent experience are possible.



6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A.    AGREEMENTS
6.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it will:
(a)    provide a guarantee on the proposed loan (para. 3.23).
6.2    Agreements was reached at negotiations that SBMA will:
(a)    conduct its affairs so as to ensure that major coTporate decisions with respect to its
corporate structure, its management structure, each investment plan and plans
specifying general civilian uses and related economic activities to be promoted in the
SBF area, are consistent with the Corporate Plan; and furnish to the Bank, at mid-
term review, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Corporate Plan
(para. 2.12);
(b)   take all measures necessary to ensure that all persons whose property and other assets
are adversely affected under the water and power components of the Project are
compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Property Acquisition and
Compensation Plan or the Principles for Property Acquisition and Compensation
(para. 5.14);
(c)    maintain a project management structure acceptable to the Bank for the overall
implementation of the project; including the assignment of experienced personnel
from its core staff to the project (para. 3.27);
(d)   review the conclusions and recommendations of the road maintenance study with the
Bank by March 31, 1998, with a view to defining the routine and periodic
maintenance work programs and corresponding budgets to be implemented during
the remainder of the project (para. 3.23);
(e)    not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the power agreement between SBMA and
Olongapo City without the Bank's agreement (para. 3.18);
(f)   retain consultants according to terms of reference and selection procedures
acceptable to the Bank for all TA activities financed by the proposed loan, and an
action plan and timetable for the carrying out of studies and the implementation of
agreed recommendations (para. 3.33);



- 35 -
(g)    undertake to obtain a water permit from NWRB for the proposed abstraction of water
from the Pamatawan well field, and conclude a water sales contract with Subic Water
by December 31, 1998 (paras. 3.12, 4.11);
(h)    carry out satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in
accordance with agreed performance indicators in terms of physical execution and
financial reports and furnish the Bank semi-annual progress report (para. 3.43);
(i)   jointly review with the Bank, December 1998, its Corporate Plan and progress
accomplished in carrying out the project (para. 3.41);
(j)   jointly review with the Bank its rolling, five-year investment plan on an annual basis
no later than March 31 of each fiscal year, and its implementation, over the life of the
project (para. 4.8);
(k)    provide annual audited financial statements to the Bank no later than six months after
the close of its fiscal year, prepared by auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and provide
financial statements one month after the close of the fiscal year (para. 3.43); and
(I)    continue to maintain appropriate insurance coverage, or adequate reserves for, and
proper maintenance of its facilities, and continue to maintain a debt/equity ratio of no
more than 70:30; of a current ratio of at least 1.2 and a debt service coverage ratio of
at least 1.5 from 1996 onwards (para. 4.8).
6.3    Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)    approval of SBMA's Corporate Plan by its Board of Directors (para. 2.12); and
(b)   the Subic Water joint venture Agreement shall have become effective in accordance
with its terms (para. 3.12).
6.4    Conditions of disbursement against the water supply component are that SBMA will:
(a)    obtain a water permit from NWRB for the proposed abstraction of water from the
Pamatawan well field (para. 3.38); and
(b)    enter into a "heads of agreement" with Subic Water satisfactory to the Bank
establishing the principal terms and conditions for the water sales agreement (para.
3.38).
B.    RECOMMENDATION
6.5    Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$60 million, for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the
Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US$ Single Currency Loans. The borrower will be
SBMA, with the guarantee of the Republic of the Philippines.



- 36 -                               Annex 
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Profile of the Subic Bay Area
The Subic Bay Area
1.    Subic Bay is located on the western part of the main island of Luzon. The proposed project
area is the geographic area whose metes and bounds were established by R.A. 7227, covering an
estimated total land area of 60,000 ha, and water area of 9,525 ha. It includes the Secured Area (the
former Naval Base), Olongapo City and Subic Town in Zambales Province, and the Municipalities of
Morong and Hermosa in Bataan Province (see IBRD Map No. 28291). Olongapo has a long history
of linkages to the Secured Area and strong relationship with SBMA prevails. Since the base
conversion began, SBMA has taken steps to build alliances with the other local government units
(LGUs) in the greater SBF zone. The launching of such a consultative initiative is significant and
will improve SBMA's chances of serving as a sub-regional catalyst. Below are some of the key
features of the proposed project area.
2.    The Metropolitan Area of Subic Bay is rapidly changing and urbanizing. The effects of rapid
urbanization are apparent in the industrial, commercial and residential growth, and in the increase in
the number of squatter settlements surrounding the urban centers. The city of Olongapo is now 100
percent urban, however, the other municipalities of Subic, Morong, and Hermosa still maintain
varying combinations of rural and urban development. This profile presents an overview of the area's
characteristics which are of significance to this project.
3.    The Secured Area. The fenced-in Secured Area encompasses the former U.S. Naval Facility
which has formed the core of the Subic Bay development and was the main focus of Bank support in
the first phase (Subic I). This approximately 6,000-hectare area is enclosed on its northern and
southern boundaries by fences erected by the U.S. Navy and contains SBMA's offices, duty-free
shops, hotels, seaports, airports, recreational facilities, residential housing and with physical life
estimated from 10 to 15 years. The entire secured area is owned by SBMA and SBMA exercises its
full authority over this portion of the Freeport. The area spans both Zambales and Bataan provinces.
4.    Reverted Lands. The remaining 7,000 hectares of military facility that was turned over to
SBMA in 1992 consists of two distinct areas. The Philippine Military Base (PMB) running along the
southern and eastern edge of the secured area and the joint U.S. and Philippine Military Training Area
(MTA) on the Redondo Peninsula. As former military reservations, the land is owned by SBMA, but
the areas were not serviced by roads and not fenced by the U.S. Navy. As a result, SBMA does not
exercise its full authority over the areas and existing private property exists within the area. The
majority of the PMB lies within the province of Bataan and the existing municipal boundaries of
Hermosa and Morong overlap with the PMB.
5.    The construction of the Manila-Subic Tollway (see IBRD Map No. 28291) will traverse the
PMB and open the area to development and potential squatting and customs leakage. Subic II will
assist SBMA by extending the fence and establishing boundary markers to exercise its full authority
over the PMB, including this area within the Secured Area. The completion of Subic II will permit
the inclusion of this area within the "separate customs territory". The securing of the MTA at this



Annex I
Page 3 of 4
time is not included in the Subic II project. The MTA lies entirely within the municipality of Subic
and the province of Zambales.
6.    Olongapo City. The adjoining city of Olongapo has a territory of 18,500 ha and is located in
the province of Zambales. As a first-class municipality, Olongapo City is largely independent of its
province and responsible for its development planning, property tax collection, utilities provision and
operates an independent police force. The City is inextricably linked with the Secured Area and there
are substantial economies of scale in closer integration of the infrastructure services. These have
been taken into account in the design of Subic II.
7.    Remaining Areas within SBMA's Metes & Bounds. The remaining areas of SBMA were
fixed by Republic Act 7227 which established SBMA boundaries as co-terminus with the former U.S.
facility as defined by the U.S.-Philippine Bases Agreement of 1947.  The remainder of the
municipality of Subic lies within this area as does the southern portion of the municipality of San
Antonio. All of the municipalities have a Major-Council form of government. As second-tier
municipalities, responsibility for governance functions are shared with the provincial government.
Development planning occurs at the municipal level, while property tax assessment and collection
can occur at the provincial level. Utilities may be provided by local districts or provincial franchises
and collectives. Education, health, and social welfare services are provided by the municipality, but
there are no independent municipal police forces. While the full jurisdiction of SBMA extends to
these areas, SBMA does not exercise its authority over these areas.
8.    Hermosa and Morong. The municipalities of Hermosa and Morong are mentioned in
Republic Act 7227 as constituent elements of the Freeport, but the majority of their territory lies
outside the metes and bounds of SBMA as defined by Presidential Proclamation. Under Republic Act
7277, "the President is likewise authorized to create Special Economic Zones" covering Hermosa and
Morong upon recommendation of the Bases Conversion and Development Authority (BCDA). These
municipalities are located within the province of Bataan.
9.    CastilleJos. Dinalupihan and San Marcelino. Under Republic Act 7227, the Presidential
authority to create Special Economic Zones also extends to the neighboring municipalities of
Castillejos, Dinalupihan and San Marcelino, but these municipalities are not mentioned as constituent
elements of the Freeport.  The raw water source identified under Subic II lies in this area.
Dinalupihan lies in the province of Bataan while Castillejos and San Marcelino are located in
Zambales.
Socioeconomic Characteristics
10.   The Population. At the end of 1995, the secured area had an estimated population of 6,170.
These are mostly expatriates and key officials of SBMA. While a national census was performed in
1995, the results have not yet been tabulated. As a result, the existing population estimates are based
on projections prepared on the basis of the 1990 census and do not take into account the effects of the
eruption of Mount Pinatubo and the withdrawal of U.S. forces in 1992. Olongapo's 1995 population
is estimated at 212,786 and the population growth is the slowest in the region. Subic Town has an
estimated population of 52,730 and is growing rapidly due to internal migration and a high rate of
natural increase. The estimated population of Hermosa is 32,980, while Morong is relatively small at
17,060. In total, the secured area and the four municipalities included in the Freeport contain about
322,000 people. (Surveys undertaken by the Population Commission found the 1993 populations of
San Marcelino and Castillejos to be 29,225 and 27,541, respectively. The 1995 population of



- 38 -                              Annex I
Page 3 of 4
Dinalupihan is estimated at 68,918. These additional municipalities have a combined population of
126,000 persons.)
Projected SBFZ Population by Community
Estimated         -----------------------Projected---------------------
Population              1995               2000          2005           2010
Secured Area           6,170             11,000         20,000        34,000
Olongapo             212,780            375,000        450,000       450,000
Subic                 52,730             93,000        167,000       285,000
Morong                17,060             30,000         54,000        92,000
Hermosa               32,980             58,000        104,000        178,000
Total                321,720            567,000        795,000      1,039,000
11.   Although a precise estimate of the current population of the SBFZ is difficult to establish,
projection of the future population of the area is vital as the basis for projecting future demand for
infrastructure services. Following a review of the widely differing population estimates for the area,
the project preparation team concluded that conventional models of population projections would be
meaningless in the special circumstances of the SBFZ. This is because wide swings in the population
have occurred over the past few years to match the region's falling and now rising economy due to
the closure of the U.S. Naval Base and the subsequent development of the freeport. While the SBFZ
accounts for less than half a percent of national population, the SBFZ has accounted for 4.6 percent of
new industrial employment and 2.8 percent of all new employment in the country from 1993 to mid-
1995. At the present time, there is still substantial slack in the local labor market - the 1995 survey of
Olongapo City found an unemployment rate of 27 percent. While the Olongapo City labor supply is
increasing by 7,600 annually, continued employment generation will exhaust this supply and
encourage substantial in-migration.
12.   Previous studies of urban migration in the Philippines have found that each additional urban
employment opportunity leads to the short-term migration of 1.7 individuals. On this basis, the
annual creation of 20,000 jobs within the Freeport in the typical Filipino context would have resulted
in annual in-migration of 21,000 on top of a natural increase of 7,000 - resulting in an annual
population growth rate of over eight percent.
13.   The population projections prepared for this project were derived from the employment
generated by the complete conversion of the U.S. Naval Facility. This intense economic development
provides the basis for projecting an overall population growth rate of 8.7 per annum for the period
1995-2010. This rate of growth compares favorably with the annual growth rates of 5.5-6.5 percent
in the other secondary urban centers of the Philippines, and is reasonable because of the economic
activity and scale of foreign direct investment in the SBF - approximately US$1,250 annually per
capita. The above table shows the projected population for the Secured Area and the adjoining
LGUs.
14.   Education and Literacy. Reliable current information is not available for the Subic Bay
Metropolitan Area, but the average household size for Olongapo was five persons in 1990 with a high
percentage of population in the 0-15 age bracket. This population has a relatively high degree of



- 39 -                               Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
literacy: ten years of schooling for about 98 percent of the population. This reflects the adequate
numbers of learning institutions, the high value placed on education, and the success of adult and
community education programs. Even the poorest segments of the Subic Bay area population, the
refuse pickers at the New Cabalan landfill site had a significant level of primary education and could
read and write in Tagalog.
15.   Labor Force and Employment.  Preliminary social impact assessment cites a labor
participation rate of 53 percent and an employment rate of 89 percent for the metropolitan area.
These figures are based on the 1990 Population Census, defining the economically active population
as those between the ages of 15 to 64. The unemployment rate was 5.7 percent for the metropolitan
area.
16.   The informal sector has grown in the urban areas reflecting the formal sector's inability to
absorb the growing labor force. Women and children from the poorer households account for 70
percent of this informal sector and this is a survival strategy. Although operating on the margins of
the formal economy, the informal sector is nevertheless an integral part of the economy. In many
instances it has developed strong supply and service links to the formal sector and operates in a
highly competitive market using locally available resources and unskilled and semi-skilled labor.
17.   Urban Poverty. One of the most visible dimensions of urban poverty is the existence of
squatter settlements on public land. The growth of these settlements can largely be ascribed to the
influx of skilled and unskilled migrants from the countryside and the lack of work opportunities. The
host cities cannot absorb the influx of migrants, nor are they equipped to provide minimal housing
and basic services. It is estimated that 90 percent of the urban poor are illegal settlers. Insecurity of
tenure, fear of eviction and relocation, and fear of fire are constant preoccupations which add to the
stigma of being poor and living in marginal conditions. The Presidential Commission on the Urban
Poor estimates the income of the urban poor families at less thanI 5,000 a month (US$200). The
minimum wage is P 4,000 a month. In the metropolitan area the urban poor are located on the
margins of the cities and around garbage dumps or landfill sites from which they derive a livelihood
as scavengers.



40-                                    Annex 2
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Freeport Concepts -- A Comparison of Subic and Other Freeports
1.     The rapid development of the Subic Bay Freeport is also impressive when contrasted to the
development experiences of most freeports worldwide. Freeports are recent variants of the traditional
freeport or free zone concept which have been in existence for several centuries. Free zones were
established to encourage entrepot trade, mostly within harbors among international trade routes.
Early examples of free zones include Gibraltar (1704), Singapore (1819), Hong Kong (1848),
Hamburg (1888), and Copenhagen (1891). Today, free zones are found in virtually every trading
country; leading examples include the 240-foreign-trade zones in the U.S., free zones and freeports in
every trading center in Europe, and commercial free zones in Africa, Middle East and Latin America.
Freeports are free zones that cover a larger physical area, such as cities (e.g., Hamburg); islands
(examples include Batam Island, Indonesia and Labuan Island, Malaysia); or entire countries (Hong
Kong, Singapore or Mauritius.)
2.     Free zones and their variants continue to be internationally recognized Customs concept,I and
share certain basic elements: (a) They are limited to a physically defined area. In the case of export
processing zones (EPZs), this is usually an industrial estate; commercial free zones generally
encompass a port area, freeports may be ports, cities, islands or even entire countries. (b) They are
considered to be extra-territorial, physically or administratively located outside the national customs
territory, where customs duties and taxes do not apply, and regulatory controls are simplified and kept
to a minimum. (c) Third, merchandise may be freely stored indefinitely within the zones, re-exported
or imported into the host country's customs territory upon payment of applicable import duties and
taxes. Free zones differ in the extent of the physical area covered by the zone, what activities and
processes are allowed to take place, and the end-user markets where free zone products may be sold.
3.     Modern freeports closely resemble the classical free zone concept, but offer several unique
advantages:
* They tend to cover larger areas, and therefore offer greater flexibility to firms in terms of
the location of their plants. The Labuan and Batam Island freeports, for example,
completely encompass entire islands. Freeport, Bahanas covers a number of the
Bahamian islands. The freeports of Singapore and Hong Kong encompass entire
countries.
*  The range of permissible activities within freeport areas are much broader. Firms can
undertake any legal activity including manufacturing, warehousing, transshipment, and
re-packaging activities, among others.  Individuals can reside within freeports,
permanently or temporarily.
1The International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures of 1979
(Kyoto Convention) defines free zones as being 'part of the territory of a State where any goods introduced are
generally regarded, insofar as import duties and taxes are concerned, as being outside the Customs territory and
are not subject to the usual Customs control. In commercial free zones, goods are admitted pending subsequent
disposal; goods admitted to industrial free zones may be subjected to authorized processing operations."



-41-                                   Annex2
Page 2 of 4
*  All types of merchandise can be introduced duty- and tax-free within the freeport by
registered enterprises or individual residents; enterprises can freely import in any
merchandise in any quantity, and are not restricted to that directly used in the
manufacturing process as in the case of EPZs.
*  Duty- and tax-free merchandise can be sold at the retail or wholesale level and/or
consumed freely within the freeport area. This is in contrast to EPZs or even commercial
free zones which do not permit retail sales or on-site consumption of duty- and tax-free
products.
*  Unlike EPZ enterprises who are usually required to export at least 80 percent of their
production, freeport enterprises are free to sell any amount to the export market, local
market or to consumers located temporarily or permanently within the freeport. Sales to
the domestic customs territory are unrestricted so long as all applicable import duties,
taxes and other charges are fully paid by the importing party.
4.     There are very few fully functioning freeports in existence; leading examples are profiled in
the table below. Singapore, Hong Kong, Gibraltar, Macao are true freeports with low or no direct and
indirect taxes, low or no import duties and charges, no foreign exchange controls, liberalized banking
policies and very few controls on the types of economic activity permitted. Newer freeports such as
Freeport, Bahamas; Labuan Island, Malaysia; Penang Island, Malaysia; province of Quintana Roo,
Mexico; and Batam Island, Indonesia offer a much more competitive package of incentives, including
low or no income taxes; duty- and tax-free importation of all goods including consumables; no
foreign exchange controls; liberalized domestic and offshore banking; liberalized immigration and
residency controls; and simplified business registration and other regulatory controls.
5.     Several other freeports are under development at various locations. Assisted by Singapore,
the Indonesian government is transforming Bintan and Karimun islands in the Riau island group into
freeports, falling under the authority of the Batam Industrial Development Authority. Malaysia has
reinstated freeport status to Penang island, which enjoyed the privilege for many years until the
1 980s, to take advantage of the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle initiative. An entrepot
zone is also being developed in Kuantan on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia, and a huge bonded
area in Shenzen, PRC.
6.     Similar mechanisms have long been in operation in the PRC, and are expanding. The PRC
introduced the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) concept in 1979 as part of its "open door policy" which
consciously used the SEZs as proving grounds for market-oriented economic reforms. There are
currently 11 SEZs, in addition to Open Coastal Cities and Areas. Although patterned after the
freeport concept, SEZs contain several important differences. (a) They cover a much larger territory
than any EPZ and most freeports, including major population centers. (b) They provide a greater
range of permissible activities, embracing not only manufacturing, but also tourism, commercial
activities, and real estate development. In fact, non-manufacturing activities (tourism and commercial
real estate development in particular) dominate economic activity and account for a large part of
foreign direct investment. (c) The SEZs are more of an administrative rather than policy concept.
SEZs offer numerous differential incentives within their territory -- they do not provide a uniform set
of incentives to enterprises located within their territory as in the case of EPZs, free zones and
freeports. (d) Strict controls are placed on sales of SEZ goods into the Chinese customs territory,
even upon full payment of import duties and taxes.



Profile of Leading Freeports and Special Economic Zones
llainan Island SEZ          Shenzen SEZ           Xiamen SEZ             Zuhair SEZ             Batam Freeport          Labuan Freeport
Size         34,000 sq. km.              2,020 sq. km.          1,516 sq. km.          1,266 sq. km.          416 sq. km.             92 sq. km.
Population   6.9 million                 2.76 million           1.2 million            I million              150,000                 n/a
Cumulative    7,000 firms;                8,000 firms;          2,400 firms;           5,600 firms;           n/a                     n/a
FDI Stock    USS10.8 billion              US$8.1 billion        US$7.1 billion         US$6 billion
Exports      USSI billion                 US$7.8 billion        US$2.4 billion         US$1.6 billion         n/a                     US$283 million
Infra-       * 2 airports                * I airport            * I airport            * I airport            * 12 industrial parks   * 2 industrial parks
structure    * 1,200 MW power supply      * extensive road&     * 2 ports, 1O berths   * 2 ports              * 28 hotels             * international airport
* 15,00 km highways       rail network            * good road & rail     * 2 industrial districts    * international airport  * 20 hotels
* 2 ports, 20 berths        * 8 ports, 92 berths  network                * 800 MW power         . 80 MW power supply    * 2 ports
. 30 sq. km. free zone at   * 2 bonded zone       * 3 Taiwan investment   supply                * 2 ports               * high speed data telecom
Yang Pu port               districts              zones                  * 48 sq.km. Henggin    * teleports             links via teleports
* 6 economic development    * 7 science &         * 2 industrial districts    Economic Development                      * offshore financial center
zones                     technology parks                               Area
9.8 sq.km.
Technology
Development Zone
Main         * 15% flat tax rate          . Same                * Same                 * Same                 * 3% effective income    . 3% flat tax on net income
Incentives   * 2 year holiday plus 50%                                                                        tax rate                * tax deductions & allowanc
reduction for 3 years                                                                           . 100% foreign          * 50% personal income tax
thereafter                                                                                      ownership               break                                t.
* 50% reduction in income                                                                       * duty-free imports,    * 100% foreign ownership
tax rate for 70% exporters                                                                      exports                 * duty-free imports, exports
and high tech industries                                                                        * unrestricted sales to  * unrestricted sales to
* I 00% duty /tax exemption                                                                     Indonesian mkt          Malaysian market
on inputs & materials used in                                                                    * national duties only on   * special incentives for
exports or sold within SEZs                                                                     foreign content         offshore banking
* 50h/o duty/tax exemption on                                                                   * automatic land lease  * liberal work & residence
materials sold in zones                                                                         extensions               permits
without further processing                                                                       * no foreign exchange or  * subsidized land rents &
* priority in obtaining Bank                                                                     currency controls      service fees
of China loans for foreign                                                                       * liberal work&
JVs                                                                                              residence permits
* exemption from building
property taxes within SEZs
* foreign exchange retention
for exporters
* no tax on profits
remittances
NoIt:   Data is as of end-1994. The PRC is currently contemplating scaling back some incentives for coastal SEZs in favor of inland locations.
Sourc: TSG, compiled from official publications.
S i



- 43 -                                 Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
7.    In addition to these freeports and SEZs are the large number of EPZs and commercial free
zones worldwide. Current estimates put the total number of industrial estates (lEs) and private and
publicly owned EPZ industrial estates at over 200 in some 50 countries. In East Asia, there are at
least 70 EPZs in operation, and another 25 under development. In the Philippines alone, the four
public EPZ projects have been joined by some 11 private industrial estate-EPZs. Under the newly
enacted Economic Zone legislation, some 35 locations around the country are expected to be
developed into so-called ecozones; two locations have been provided freeport status similar to the
Subic Bay Freeport (SBF).
8.    There are several implications of these zones for the Subic Bay Freeport: (a) although the
SBF is an innovative development in the Philippine context, the freeport is not a new concept. Free
zones and their variants have well-accepted international definitions, and several, especially in East
Asia, have been successfully operating for many years. (b) Many of the Asian freeports and SEZs
pose significant competition to the SBF as they offer a superior package of incentives.



- 44 -                      Annx 3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
SBMA's Organizational Chart



NEW ORGANIZATION OF SBMA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
I                 ,                 | CORPORATE BOARD
J~~~~~~~~~ SECRETARY 
OFFICE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR/
SR. DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR
|OFFICE OF THE LEGAL CORPOIRATE COUNSEL                   STRATEGIC PLANNING  OFFICE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE                      IT                  C
[INTELLIGENCE & INVESTIGATION OFFICE |MANAGEMENT INFORMATION  SYSTEM  OFFICE
[PUBLIC AFFAIRS OFFICE                 ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION  OFFICE
MINISTRATION|                FINANCE                  PUBLIC WORKS &              TRANSPORTATION  &            TRADE & TOURISM
GROUP                      GROUP                  TECHNICAL SERVICES             COMMUNICATIONS                   GROUP                       LFAE
GROUPOP                                                                                  U
H UMANRESOURCES    IINANCIAL PLANNING    I             ENOINEERINO DEPARtMENT|     SEAPORT OP!RTONSDET. |       PROMOTONS&MKTG.DEPT. |U.OR                 I
MANAGEMENT DEPT.   I    I     EUDOET DEPT.     I                                                                                            I RECRUnMENT CTR.
LANDTATE                   TREASURYDEPT.              UTILTIESDEPARTMENT           AlRPORTDErARTMENT  E        INVESTMENTPROC.NDEPT.  |EALT
d   SECURITY DEPT.  I      ACCOUNTING DEPT.   I                               H  LAND TRMSPORTATION DEPT. |  q   RE31TrATION & LOCATOR
AI AANCE DEPT.    i       |WDorc 
FIRE DEPARTMENT
D TPROCUREENT A PROERTY
I  DEPARTMAENT    I                                                                     
PASS PROCESSING &CONTftOE IiX
CORP. SUPPORT S9CS. 



- 46 -                      Annex 4
Page I of 7
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table



PHILIPPINES
Second Subic Bay Preeport Project
Table 1. institutional Support
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Ousntities               Unit               Base Cost (1000)                  Totals Tncludinq Contingencies (10001
_Un it   1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  Coat  _197_  1998    A             ~~2000    Fo~i i    1997    199          1999    2000    Tota~l
I. Imyeutaent Costs
A. ImstitutiomaI Streogthening /a
T/A Freeport Policy                          sme        21    21    21        9    72 18,000   378.0   378.0   378.0   162.0 1,296.0   382.5   391.7   401.1   176 0 1,351.4
T/A (national) Freeport Policy                PM         6      6      6      6    24  5,000    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   120.0    30.4             31.1    31.8    32.6   125.9
T/A Human Resource Mgmt                       PM         8      4      -      -    12 18,000   144.0    72.0            -        -   216.0   145.7    74.6            -        -   220.3
T/A (local) Coemunity Outreach/social    PM              6      -      -      -      6  8,000    30.0          -        -        -    30.0    30.4           -        -        -    30.4
T/A Coemmercjalisation Planning               PM         6      6      6      6    24 18,000   108.0   108.0   108.0   108.0   432.0   109.3   111.9   114.6   117.4   453.2
T/A (local) Comsnercialisation Planning   pm             9      9      9      9    36  5,000    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0   180.0    45.8    46.6    47.8    48.9   188.8
Miscellaneous Studies lb                    Lumnpsum                                                   -agk.~Q0..       -        -        O ...1 ..il.                -        -
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                                                                 735.0 1,133.0   561.0   345.0 2,774.0   743.8 1,174.1   595.3   374.9 2,888.1
D. Support to PAP Office
T/A Project M4gmt Advisor                     PM         9      6      6      3    24 18,000   162.0   108.0   108.0    54.0   432.0   163.9   111.9   114.6    58.7   449.1
T/A (local) PM Advisor                        PM        12    12    12    12    48  5,000    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0   240.0    60.7    62.2    63. 7    6 5.2   251.8
Support Staff                                 PM        12    1 2    12    12    48  2, 700 ......2.A       32.4.~L   .......3A  3.....2.4A  12    3....2.8L   33.6...  34.j,4  --...I.2 .....L.0
Subtotal Support to rkp office                                            ~~~~~~~254.4   200.4   200.4   146.4   801.6   257.5   207.7   212.7   159.1   836.9
C. I/S - Equipment
Office Equipment HR Mgmt                    1,umpsum                                              71.0    71.0    71.0    71.0   284.0    82.6    84.6    86.6    88.7   342.6                               -
Off ice Equipment Planning /c                year        1      1      1      1      4 50,000    so5 g .......L. ..0. 0    50.0 ...20.0Q,.               59 ......2  6i.....0  __f.iZ.. ...2i..
Subtotal I/S - Xquipmeut                                                                          1..21-0   12...1.0.  2.    1...21.0.  __I.A_Q  __..J"...    144A 2   147.7L  151A-.2   583.9.t
Total                                                                                                   1,110.4 1,454.4   882.4   612.4 4,059.6 1,142.1 1,526.0   955.6   685.2 4,308.9
\a Institutional Advisor.
\b Includes local and international consultants.
~c CoeMuter, photocopier. supplies, etc.
Tue Oct 29 16:36,31 1996



PHILIPPINBS
Second SubiC Bay Preeport Project
Table 2. Strengthening of Ecology Center
Detailed Costs
(US$ )
Totals Including
Ouantities              Unit          Base Cost ('0001                Contingencies (P000)
Unit   1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  Cost  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total 1997  1998   1999   2000  Total
I  Investmnt Costs
A. Institutional Straotheoiog
T/A Ecology Center                      pM          a     -      _      _      8 18,000 144.0        -     -      - 144.0 145.7        -      -      - 145.7
T/A (local) Ecology Center              pM          4      -     -      -      4  S,O00   20 0       -     _      -  20-0  20-2               _ _    20-2
Subtotal Institutional Strenth.ning                                                         164.0       -      -      - 164.0 166.0       -      -      - 166.0
B. Equipsant
Miscellaneous Equipment              Luumpsum                                            200.0       -      -     - 200.0 232.8        -      -      - 232.8
C. Social Ipact Asasasmat /a
Road and Bridge Rehab                Lumpsum                                              20.0       -     -          20.0  23.3       -      -      -  23.3
Deep Water Wells                     Lumpsum                                              75.0       -      -     -  75.0  87.3        -      -      -  87.3
Generator 10 KVA                       Unit         1      -                   I _  1 15.000  15.0      -         -  15.0  17.5        -      -      -  17.5
T/A for School                          pm          1     1      1      1      4  5,000    55  0.0              5 0   20-0  5L       5.2 __513  5L4  21 0
Subtotal Social Impact aseass.t                                                             115 .0   -o   5 0   5.0 130 0 133.1   5.2   5-3   5 4JA 1490
Total Investaa nt Costs                                                                          479.0   5.0   5.0   5.0 494.0 531.8   5.2   5.3   5.4 547.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Social De..lopent                                                                                                                                                                                      1
Development Specialist               Lumpsum                                              98 5           .90 94   9.9  36-8  9.5  10.3  11.0  1L.8  425L
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                              85   9.0   9-4  9.9  36.8   9,5  10.3  11.0  11-8  42A 5 
Total                                                                                             487.5  14.0  14.4  14.9 530.8 541.3  15.4  16.3  17.3 590.3
\a Implementation of the Indigenous People Action Plan as well as monitoring of RAPS.
Tue Oct 29 16:36:41 1996
0



PHI LIrPP INHS
Second Subic Bay Preeport Project
Table 3. Water Supply Component
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Cuantiries              Unit                   Base Cost (0001                       Totals Including Contingencies 1l000I
Unit   1997  198  192000  Totl  Cast                                                       To9L  1998   i999  20     Sntal           200   Q    Total
I. Inestamt Costs
A  P-ataa Wlitfield /a
Land Acquisicion                                            Ha        ls      -      -      -    10 40,000      720.0         -         -          -    720.0     728.6          -         -         -    728.6
Well Construction /b                                       Unit        -    20       -      -     20 80 .000        -  1,600.                         1,600.0          -  1,906.8          -         -  l,906.8
Equipment /c                                              Lumpau,                                                   -    330.0    330.0            -    660.0          -    393.3    402.7           -    796.0
Groundwater Monitoring Network /d                         Lumpsun                                                   _    100.0           -              100.0          _    119.2          -                119.2
Watershed  Heforestation /s                                 Ha         _    75   100        -   175  2,500          -    18-.5    250.0            -    437.5          -    223.4    305...1         -     5
Subtotal Pamatawan  lellfiald                                                                                      720.0  2,217.5    580.0            -  3,517.0    728.6  2,642.7    707.8              -  4,079.1
B. Trtammission Mim. Booster Stat. Tretmt Plat
Land Acquisition /f                                         Ha         _      2      _            2 40.000          -      80.0          -         -     80.0          -      82.9         -                82.9
Civil Work Transmission /g                                Luspsum                                                   -  1,745.0  2,S24.0            -  4,269.0          -  2,079.5  3,080.1           -  5,159.6
Civil Works Water Treatment /h                            Lumpsum                                                   -    124.0    586.0            -    710.0          -    147.8    715.1           -    862.9
8quipment /i                                              Lumpsum                                                   -    _        1 985 0          -  1.985.0          -         -  2-422-A          -  2.422.4
Subtotal Transmision Main, BoosOter Stat. Tretat Plant                                                                  -  1,949.0  5,095.0           -  7,044.0          -  2,310.2  6,217.6            -  8,527.8
C. Treoatd Hater Transmissi.o  Main
Civil Work TM Castillejos/talakan                         LuMpsum                                                   -  4,800.0  4,714.3            -  9,514.3          -  5,720.3  5,753.0           - 11,473.3
C..Cosutants Ser-ices
International Consultants /j                                me        12    30    30       -    72 18,000    226.0    540.0    040.0               -  3,296.0    213.6    559.6    573.0             -  1,1351.2        %O
Local Consultant /k                                         -         40    72    41            153  S,100    204.0    367.2    209.1                   780.3    206.4    380.5    221.9             -    808.9
Local Consultants /1                                        me        02    82    00        _   244  3,000    246.0    246.0    240.0              -    732.0    249.0    254.9    254.7             -    758.6
Support Staff                                             Lusp:um                                                24.8      35.0      35.0          -     94.8       25.1      36.3      37.1         -      98.5
Of fice Rental and Equipment                              Luspsum                                               407.2          -         -          -  40.2    412..   1         -          -         -    4121
Subtotal Consultants flrvicas                                                                                    1,098.0  1,188.2  1,024.1            -  3,310.3  1,111.2  1,231.3  1,086.7              -  3,429.2
S. Mater Loss Copensation
Comensation for Loss of Crops /m                         Lu psum                                                    -    320.0           -         -    320.0          -    331.6          -         -    331.6
Water Loss Mitigation In                                  Luspsum                                                    -    200.2          -              200.2          -    238.6          -         -    238.6
Replacement of M4otor Pumps /o                            Lunpsum                                                             -      30.0          -      30.0         -         - 3 ,,  6                  - 1L.-
Subtotal .latar Loss Compensation                                                                                       -    S20.2      30 0 -----          550,2         -    570 2       366.          -    60ID
Total Investment Coats                                                                                               1,818.0 10,674.9 11,443.4             - 23,936.3  1,839.8 12,474.7 13,801.7             - 28,116.3
II. Escurrnt Costs
A. 0   1 N Wellfield, treat. plant & min line                Lumpsum                                                    -         -         -  S.65.S0  8.654.  0         -         -          - 102344.0 20.144.0
Total RCUrrest Costs                                                                                                                                  -         - -    654-0  8,654.0                10.344.0 10 344l0
Total                                                                                                                  1,818.0 10,674.9 11,443.4  8,654.0 32,590.3  1,839.8 12,474.7 13,801.7 10,344.0 38,460.3
\a See Preparation Report. Volume II, Appendix S.
\b Table 1, Item 1.0 (10MM.
\c Table 1. Item  3.0.
\d Item *.0.
\e Potential area for reforestation in Pamatawan Watershed 3,700 ha,
\f Table 1. Item 1.0 (90%).
\9 Table 1, Item 4.0.
\h Items 5.0,0.1 and 0.2
\i Items 5.3 thru 5.10
\j Includes Water Supply Bngineer, Hydrogeologist and Hydrologist.
\k Includes Water Supply Engineer, Hydrogeologist and Hydrologist.
\1 Includes Construction Technicians/Inspectors, Surveyors and Draftsmen.                                                                                                                                                    S
\. Por 40 Ha at Peso 200.000/Ha.
\n Cost of Deepening existing wells.
\o Replacement of 40 pumps at Pesos 18,050.
Tue Oct 29 16:36;33 1996                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
O :



PHILIPPINES
Second Subic Bay Freeport Project
Table 4. Power Distribution Component /a
Detailed Costs
(USS )
Ouantities             Unit                   Base Cost ('000)                       Totals IncludinQ Contingencies I 000)
Unit   1997  1998  1999  2000  Totl Cost    1997             1998       1999      200      Ttl        1997      1998       19        200      Toc.l
I. XnDV-tm t Costs
k. I9 kV Transmission System
69 kV TransmiSSion System                     Lumpsum                                              117.0    585.0  1,053.0    585.0  2,340.0    136.2    697.2  1,285.0    731.0  2,849.4
69/13.8 Xcv Substations                       Luepsum                                              250.5  12.62.5  2254.5  1.2152.5  S.010-0    29.15  1.492.6  2 L751 2  1I565I1  6.100.6
Subtotal 69 kV Teansmissio   Systm                                                                     367.5  1,837.5  3,307.5  1,837.5  7,350.0    427.7  2,189.8  4,036.3  2,296.2  8,949.9
B. Distributiom System
13.8 kV Pehabilitation                        Lumpsum                                              183.0    915.0  1,647.0    915.0  3,660.0    213.0  1,090.4  2,009.9  1,143.4  4,456.7                        a
LV Construction & Consumer Services           Lupsum                                               1.5    72,.5  1.390.5   772.5 3,0900    1.                    920.6  1.696. 9 9 6   5 3   1762. 6      Vl
Subtotal Oistribution System                                                                           337.5  1,667.5  3,037.5  1,687.5  6,750.0    392.8  2,011.0  3,706.8  2,108.7  8,219.3                       o
C. Operatio- snd Construetio. Support
Operational 6 Conms. Equipment                Lumpsum                                                85.0    425.0    765.0    425.0  1,700.0           98.9    506.5    933.6    531.1  2,070.1                 a
Stores and Logistics                          LUmpSUm                                                51.0     255.0    459.0    255.0  1,020.0          59.4    303.9    560.1    318.7  1,242.0
Environmental Enh. & Safety                   Lumpsum                                               14.5 .172.-5        130.5      72.5 ,.  290.0      16.9      86.4    159 .       90.6    353.1
Subtotal Oper-tion   d Construction Support                                                            150.5    752.5  1,354.5    752.5  3,010.0    175.2    896.8  1,652.9    940.3  3,665.2
D. Technical Assistance                          Lumpsum                                               112.0    560.0  1,008.0    560.0  2,240.0    113.3    580.3  1,069.6    608.5  2,371.8
E. Land Acquisition                              Lumpsum                                               270.0          -         -         -    270.0    273.2            -         -         -    273.2
F. Component Management                          Lumpsum                                                 8.0   4LQ          72.0       40.0    160.0        8.1       41.5      76.4      43.5    169.4
Total In.wstment Costs                                                                                   1,245.5  4,077.5  8,779.5  4,877.5 19,780.0  1,390.3  5,719.4 10,542.0  5,997.2 23,648.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. 0 & MC coSts                                  Lumpsum                                                   -          -         -  6,346.0  6.,346.            -         -         -  7.585.3  7 585i3
Total Recurrat Costs                                                                                        _     _       -         -  6 346.0  6.346.0             -_- _.-  7.585.3  7 585 I 3
Total                                                                                                     1,245.5  4,877.5  8,779.5 11,223.5 26,126.0  1,390.3  5,719.4 10,542.0 13,582.5 31,234.3
\a See Preparation Report, Volume IV, Appendix 5.
Tue Oct 29 16:36:36 1996
tA
0N>



PHILIPPINES
Second Subic Bay Freeport Project
Table S. Roads, Bridges and Rel. Infrastructure /a
Detailed Costs
(US$)
quanti ties             Unit                  Base Cost ('000)                      Totals Including Contingencies ('0001
U       ni t 1997  1998  1999  2000       Cost        19    7 1 999    _                                                           20 1997  1998  1999  0  Total
I. Investuent Coats
A. Widecieg of Highways /b
Rical Highway                                      Lumpsum                                              234.4  2,578.4  1,875.2            -  4,688.0    272.8  3,072.8  2,288.4             -  5,633.9
ArgonauL Highway                                   Lumpspu                                               72.0    791.5    575.6            -  1.439.0       83.7    943.2    702.4       _       1.729.4
Subtotal Widening of Highways                                                                               306.4  3,369.9  2,450.8           -  6,127.0    356.5  4,016.0  2,990.8                 7,363.3
B. Bxpremssay Extension /c
SBP Expressway                                    Lumpsum                                                    -  2,144.0  2,144.0  1,072.0  5,360.0             -  2,555.1  2,616.4  1,339.6  6,511.1
Argonaut to Airport                                Lumpsue                                                   -  1.392.4  1.392.24    3696          10.2  38    -  1.,659.4  1.699 2             4.l2.Q  4.228.5
Subtotal Bapres..ay Ratensien                                                                                      3,536.4  3,536.4  1,768.2  8,841.0             -  4,214.4  4,315.6  2,209.6 10,739.6
C. Bridge Re.hbilitation  - Retrofit /d
Kalalake, Boton B Malawan Bridges                 Luepsum                                                    -         -    300.0    200.0    500.0                      -    366.1    249.9    616.0
*. [-l.kls Bridge Intsrs.ctiee/Security Plaza /a
Intersection and Security Plaza                   Lumpsum                                                    -    690.0  1,265.0    345.0  2,300.0                  822.3  1,543.7    431.1  2,797.1
B. RBads., Draie  & Bridges  Rittesanc.  If
Maintenance Mget Systee                            Lumpsum                                               90.0    504 9                     -    5'4.9    104.7    601.7            -         -    706.4
Core Area Road Reha                               Luepsuu                                                    -    860.0          -         -    860 o          -  1,024.9          -         -  1,024.9
Secondary Roads Rehab                             Lumpsum                                                    -    590.0          -         -    595.0          -    709.1          -         -    709.1
Periodic Maintenance                              Lumpsoe                                                    -      Q.S    800.0 b.O ...AQ0.0 .4                              976. 3    499. 8  2.429.5
Subtetel Rods., Drains & Bridges Meieteeeeca                                                                90.0  2,759.9    800.0    400 0  4,049.9          104.7  3,289.1    976.3    499.8  4,069.9
P. SBF Bypass - Dinaluphian/Castille3us /g              mm         -    11       -     -    11 18,000           -    198.0                          198.0         -    205.2          -         -    205.2
G. Related Infrastructure /h
Metes, Bounds i Airport Mapping                   Lumpsum                                                74.8    673.2           -         -    748.0       75.7    697.6                    -    773.1 38
Security Fencing                                  Lumpsue                                               261.8  2,355.8           -         -  2,617.5    304.6  2,807.4            -         -  3,112.0
GIS System                                        Lumpsum                                                30.0   270.0            -         -    300.0       30.4    27928          -         -    310.2MLZ
Subtetal Related Infrstructure                                                                             366.6  3,299.0           -             3,665.5    410.7  3,784.8           -         -  4,195.5
B. SPN D*sigo and Conatruction /i
Bira  Argonaut Highway Construction               Lumpsum                                                10.0    165.0    120.0            -    300.0       15.2    171.0    127.3           -    313.5
SBF EBpreasway/Argunaut                           Lumpsum                                                    .    176.0    176 0        88.0    440.0          -    182.4    186.8        95.6    464.8
Bridges Retrofit                                  Lumpsum                                                    -       7.5     13.8        3.8      25.0         -       7.8      14.6       4.1      26.4
Kalaklan Bridge Design                            Luepsum                                                16.5      99.0    11   5299.0    330.0             16..i7    102.6        122 6    107.6    3A
Subtetal SPM Design end Construction                                                                        31.5    447.5    425.3    190 8  1,095 0           31.9    463.7    451.3    207.3  1,154.1
1. Inetitstio-al Support /j
T/A Supervision Package 1 & 2                      Lumpsum                                              105.0          -         -         -    105.0    106.3           -         -         -    106.3
Component Iepl. Teae /k                           Lumpsue                                            ....72.f.       9.1. --7 23t91   92     3  177.0     80.7           247.8    253i 7  _29.8  842i0
Subtotal Institutional Support                                                                          ..il.it7 -239.1   239.1 .._.._2I    902.0    186.9    247A8    253S                 259.8    948A 2
Tetal lnvestat Coate                                                                                            979.1 14,539.7  9,016.6  3,143.1 27,678.4  1,090.7 17,043.3 10,897.4  3,857.6 32,889.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. 0 & B costs
0   M costs                                        Lumpsum                                                   -        f l .O   lQSO.O    150L0    450.0        -    171.0 ,,125J   1 ,12791 3    525A
Tetel Recurrent Costs                                                                                                -    150.0    l5.O        lSO.O    450.0          -    171.0 ,125j  -Z7Ll   ,52I5A
Total                                                                                                            979.1 14,689.7  9,166.6  3,293.1 28,128.4  1,090.7 17,214.3 11,072.5  4,036.9 33,414.4
\e See Preparation Report, Volume 5, Appendix 10
\b Volume 5, Appendix II,  Table 3 as modified by appraisal team and SBMA.
\c Final Report Addendum, Table 7, modified by appraisal team and SBMA.
\d Volume 5, Appendix 11, Table 3, Final Report Addendum, Table 6, plus Appraisal teas estimates.
Xe Appraisal team and 5BMA estimates.
\f Volume 5, Appendix II, Table 2.
\g Final Report Addendum, Table 7.
\h Final Report, Addendum page 23.
\i Final Report, Addendum page 23.
\j Volume 5. Appendix SI, Table 7.                                                                                                                                                                                  0
\k Roads Bridges/Coestr-ction Engineer, SBM4A Counterpart, Systems Analyst and support.                                                                                                                             (lQ
Tue Oct 29 16:36:38 1996                                                                                                                                                                                             0i



PHILIPPIN3S
Second Stubic Bay Freeport Project
Project Cost S _ rzy
(Paso '0001                                            (USS '000)
I       t Total                                         %          Total
Foreign    Base                                         Foreign    Base
Local    Foreian    TotaL   Exchange           Costs    _JLca     Poreign    Total   Exchanae  -CostLs
A. Institutional Strengthening
1. Institutional Support              18,593.1  86,956.5 105,549.6            82          4      715.1   3,344.5   4,059.6            82          4
2. Ecology Center                      1.7841  1.2016J.  13.800.8             87           1      68.6 ..3462.2         530.8         87          1
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening  20,377.2  98,973.2 119,350.4                83          5      783.7   3,806.7   4,590.4            83          5
B. Water Supply                         365,440.3 481,907.0 847,347.3             57         36  14,055.4  18,534.9  32,590.3             57         36
C. Power Distribution                   271,554.4 407,721.6 679,276.0             60         29  10,444.4  15,681.6  26,126.0             60         29
D. Roads and Bridges                    275.420L2 455.918.2 732.338.4             62         31  10.593.1  17.S35.3  28.128.4             62         31
Total BASELINE COSTS                      932,792.1 1,444,520 2,377,312            61        100  35,876.6  55,558.5  91,435.1             61        100
Physical Contingencies                 111,495.4 169,967.3 281,462.7            60          12   4,288.3   6,537.2  10,825.5            60          12                   t.
Price Contingencies                    169.364.6 240.QI0.5 4099375.1            59          17  2.386,A    3,361-3 5L 747.5              Ss          6
Total PROJrCT COSTS                       1,213,652 1,854,498 3,068,150            60        129  42,S51.2  65,456.9 108,008.1             61        118
Wed Oct 30 10:53:50 1996
O 



- 53 -                       Annex5
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators



REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
A. Performance Indicators -
Institutional Strengthening Component
Objectives              Inputs         Processes/Activities      Expected Output/Impact                  Indicators                 Timing
Strengthen SBMA's   1. Consultancy        * review of customs     * streamlined movement of      * introduction of computerized    * 1/97 - 6/98
capacity to regulate   services in customs   concepts and           goods and services between     merchandise controls, removal of
and manage the       controls,               procedures in other    freeport and customs territory  documentary controls over duty-
growth of the        documentation,          freeports            * reduced leakages of duty-free    free shops
Freeport.            procedures, taxation    * analysis of existing  goods into domestic customs   * revision of the freeport customs
and investment          rules and              territory                      procedures manual
incentives.             regulations,         * enhanced competitiveness of   * reduction in amount of time for
including effective    SBF firms                      customs to clear import & export
tax rate calculations    * rationalized incentives for  consignments
* review of tax and       freeports in the Philippines  * establishment of framework for
incentives policies                                  resolution of pending issues
in other freeports                                   relating to taxation and investment
and special                                           incentives with concerned national
economic zones                                        government agencies
* training and
exposure visit to
other freeports
2. Consultancy       * identification of     * clear delineation of         * establishment of a freeport policy  * 1/97 - 9/98
services on freeport   regulatory &            regulatory and oversight       unit within SBMA to undertake
regulatory             oversight skills not    responsibilities with national  regulatory & oversight functions
framework              present in the          government agencies          * issuance of DOJ opinions on
SBMA                                                  video transmission, printing &
publishing freedoms in SBF;
SBMA authority over air traffic
rights
* review of oversight    * enhanced definition of      * establishment of framework for
& commercial           freeport framework in line     commercial dispute resolution
dispute resolution     with legislation and
framework applied     international best practices
elsewhere                                                                                             o2
* development of        * delineation of functions,    * issuance of SBMA framework
appropriate            responsibilities & authority   agreement with LGUs including                    o 
framework for          with neighboring LGUs          provision of utilities services
interface with
LGUs



Objectives           Inputs               Processes/Activities      Expected Output/Impact         Indicators                           Timing
3. Consultancy       . analysis of core      . division of SBMA into        . development of plan to restructure * 1/97 - 6/98
services in            functions, services     separate entities for major    the SBMA
privatization and       & organizational       functions: administrator of  * development of SBMA criteria to
SBMA                    structure              freeport regime; exerciser of  assume equity positions in
organizational       * change                  municipal authority; owner &   projects
development             management             developer of assets within the   . issuance of timetable for
analysis including     Freeport                       privatization of SBMA
plan to unbundle     * greater role for private sector  subsidiaries
organization           in provision of services within  * implementation of privatization
. analysis of             the freeport                  transactions
alternative
mechanisms for
commercialization
of SBMA functions
& properties
* expert transactional
support              __
%Ae



- 56 -                                   Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
B. Performance Indicators - Other Components
PROJECT                                                             OUTCOMES AND
OBJECTIVES                INPUTS                 OUTPUTS                 IMPACTS
Power Component
To consolidate and     *  US$19.8 million      *  Construction of 23   *  Reduce SBMA's
rationalize power         from the IBRD loan      km of o/head and 3       administrative
distribution services in  and SBMA funds.         km of underground        consumption of
the SBMA and                                      69 kV sub-               electricity from 40%
Olongapo City franchise  Funds would be used to   transmission circuits;  to 10% by 2000;
areas.                 procure equipment      .  Expansion of five     *  Reduce usage and
(including electric        existing 69/13.8 kV      live losses from 24%
.  Strengthen          meters), works,            substations;            to 12% by 2000;
commercial         consultants, and training   .  Construction of one    *  Provide 100% meter
operations, and    and technical assistance.  new 69/13.8 kV           coverage to domestic
improve revenue                                substation;             consumers in the
opportunities and                          a  Installation of 20 km    SBMA housing areas
customer service by                            of 13.8 kV cables;      by 2000;
ensuring reliability                       *  Rehabilitation and   *  Replace 100% of
in distribution of                            extension of 50 km of    consumer-owned
power supply.                                  13.8 kV and 50 km of    meters in the
LV systems.             Olongapo franchise
area by 2000.
Water Component
To increase the quantity   US$33.3 million from the  *  Development of 20    *   Meet projected water
of treated water       IBRD loan and SBMA         wells with average       demand by user:
available in the Secured  funds.                  capacity of          *  Domestic - 49.5 to
Area, Olongapo City and                           450m3/hour;              87.3 million liters/
Subic Town.           Funds would be used to    *  Construction of         day (MLD),
procure equipment,         7,600 meters of raw      Commercial - 13.8 to
consulting services for    water transmission       72.8 MLD, &
overall project            main;                    Institutional - 3.1 to
management, detailed    *  Construction of          4.7 MLD by 2000;
design, construction       electric power       *   Increase incremental
supervision, and           transmission lines to    water sales of about
hydrological studies.      the Pamatawan well       33 million cubic
field and treatment     meters by 2000;
plant;              *   Reduce non-revenue
*  Construction of water    water to 5% of total
treatment plant and a   water pumped by
booster station;        2000;
*  Construction of      *  Reduce system losses
19,400 meters of        for bulk water close
treated water           to 0% by 2000;
transmission main;    *   Provide 100% water
*  Installation of a        meter coverage to
ground water            consumers in the
monitoring network;     SBMA housing areas
*  Reforestation of the     by 2000.
Pamatawan River
Basin; and
*  Identification of
water supply sources.



- 57 -                                   Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
Roads and Bridges
A. Road widening &     *  US$27.6 million      *  Widening Rizal and    *  Increasing network
intersection           from the IBRD loan     Argonaut Highways,       capacity to meet
improvement in the     and SBMA funds.        & the link from Tipo     projected traffic
vicinity of the port,  *  Funds would be used  Road to Binitican       growth from
airport and new       to procure              Bridge;                  expanded airport,
industrial areas of   equipment, civil     *  Extending the            port, and the new
the Freeport.          works, Technical        Freeport expressway;    industrial areas;
B. Preserving the         Assistance (Roads    *  Retrofitting 4 existing  *  Improving network
bridges in the         Advisor), consulting   bridges--Kalalake,       user benefits by
Freeport from         services, staff         Malawaan, Boton,         reducing travel time
severance following   training and studies.   Binitican;               from increased links
serious seismic                            *  Constructing a new       speed and reduced
occurrence.                                   Kalaklan bridge;        intersection delays;
C. Provide superior                            *  Establishing a road    *  Improving vehicular
access route into the                         maintenance              and pedestrian safety
core area of the                              management system;       by improved traffic
Freeport.                                  *  Carrying out a road      management and
D. Develop SBMA's                                 alignment study for     pedestrian
maintenance                                   the Freeport By-Pass;    segregation at major
planning and                                   and                    intersections and
management                                 *  Improving related        bridges;
capability.                                   infrastructure.      *  Provide greater
service life and traffic
capacity to existing
distressed bridges in
the SBF;
.  Enhance SBMA's
ability to procure and
supervise
maintenance works
by private
contractors.
C. The SBF's General Indicators of Performance
Indicator                   Unit       1996    1997    1998    1999        2000     2005
Cumulative investment       US$ mill   1,530    1,870    2,200    2,600    3,000    5,400
Jobs created by investors  '000          16       24       30       38       45       83
Area population            '000         236      241      246      251      256     423
Industrial buildings        m2 '000     220      340      440      560      670    1,220
Intemational tourists      '000          60       85      110      135      160     330



-58-                                    Annex6
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule Per Semester
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year      Semester Ending         Disbursement            Cumulative
1997               31-Dec-96                  0.0                   0.0
30-Jun-97                 1.8                   1.8
1998               31-Dec-97                  8.1                   9.9
30-Jun-98                 8.1                  18.0
1999               31-Dec-98                 18.0                  36.0
30-Jun-99                 6.0                  42.0
2000                31-Dec-99                 9.0                  51.0
30-Jun-00                 5.0                  56.0
2001                31-Dec-00                 4.0                  60.0



- 59 -                                Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
Bank's Supervision Input into Key Activities
1.    Over and above the regular time needed for day-to-day supervision at HQ in particular for
procurement review, comments on progress and audit reports as well as related correspondence, the
table below indicates that about 79 staff weeks of Bank supervision are required. No distinction is
made between Subic I and II in terms of total staff weeks; however, in terms of activity, I or II
denominates the respective phase.
Expected Skill
Estimated Date    Activity                     Requirement                   Weeks
January 1997      Work Progress I              Freeport Specialist             18
Environmental Aspects 1, 11  environmental Specialist
Detailed Engineering II      Financial Analyst/Economist
Launching Studies II         Task Manager
Review of New Financial and
MIS, I & II
July 1997         Construction Progress I      Engineers as needed             8
Procurement progress II      Task Manager
Review of 5-Year Rolling     Financial Analyst
Investment Plan I & II
December 1997    Implementation and Studies     Engineers                      8
Progress I & II              Freeport Specialist
Sociologist
June 1998         Institutional Progress &II   Institutional Specialist        4
Task Manager
December 1998    Mid-Term Evaluation II        Task Manager                    18
Overall Implementation I     Engineers
Freeport/Institutions Specialist
Financial Analyst
Environmental Specialist/
Sociologist
June 1999         Overall Implementation       Engineers as needed             10
Progress I & II              Financial Analyst/Economist
Task Manager
November 1999    Final Supervision I            Task Manager                   8
Overall Implementation       Engineers
Progress II                  Financial Analyst/Economist
June 2000         Implementation Completion     Generalist                     5
Report I



- 60 -                                  Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
SBMA Contribution to Supervision
2.     SBMA is the executing agency for the project. As such, it will contribute a manager as well
as several technical assistance personnel to supervise project implementation. Moreover, it will
regularly report on progress by means of periodic reports as well as by audited, annual financial
statements (Balance Sheets and Income Statements).



- 61 -                                Annex 8
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Financial Analysis of Project Components
1.    This annex provides details of the financial analysis undertaken for the water supply and
power distribution components of Subic II. The financial rate of return has been assessed for these
two components but not for the overall project because a large part of the overall project cost are non-
revenue generating. For the water supply component, the financial analysis is based on incremental
investment and operating costs for the provision of treated water in bulk to the newly created Subic
Water. For the power distribution component, the financial analysis is based on the incremental
investment and operating costs and on tariffs currently charged by SBMA and Olongapo City. These
rates will be reviewed following the completion of tariff studies and cost recovery options to be
financed under the project. Constant 1996 prices were used in the financial analysis.
Tariffs
2.    Bulk Water Tariffs: SBMA has not reached agreement with the joint venture retail distributor
of water, Subic Water, on bulk water rate tariffs apart from the fact that the rate must be viable for
SBMA. The key variable in the financial analysis of the bulk water component was thus the bulk
water tariff. The major concern is that tariffs be structured which ensure that the bulk water supply
enterprise of SBMA is financially viable and that the bulk rate will provide Subic Water with
sufficient margin to allow it to operate profitably. The financial analysis concludes that a bulk rate of
about P 9.5/m3 would be needed for the bulk supply enterprise to be viable and to generate sufficient
revenue to repay the project loan. Power makes up about 80 percent of the operation and
maintenance costs of bulk water so the analysis is sensitive to changes in the price of power. The
price of power used was P 4.6/kWh and the selection of this rate is discussed below. If the price of
power is reduced by 30 percent to P 3.18/kWh then the price of bulk water may be reduced to
P 8.0/m3.
3.    Tariffs for bulk water vary significantly in the Philippines. In Davao City for example the
bulk/wholesale rate as of the February 29, 1996 was P 17.00/m3 compared to the highest usage rate
of P 12.00/m3 for domestic and commercial and industrial users. Smaller users have a lower rate.
By comparison, the bulk rate in Cebu City is + 4.96/m3 but this is considered to be low.
4.    Retail water tariffs: Retail tariffs have been assessed by Subic Water and their initial
proposals are shown in the table below. These tariffs will be subject to review once SBMA's bulk
water tariff is determined.
5.    The top portion of the table below shows the projections of the total water demand by user for
the years 2000, 2005, and 2010 for the Subic Water supply area. Based on these projections and the
proposed water tariff information shown in the bottom portion of the table, an average retail rate of
about P 14/m3 is determined. This is approximately in line with the commercial and domestic rates
for retail water in Davao City.



-62-                                   Ann8
Page 2 of 13
Projected Water Demand for the Secured Area, Olongapo City and Subic
-Projected Total Water Demand (Mid)-
Type of Demand         1995              2000              2005              2010
Domestic               49.5              87.3              116.1             140.2
Commercial and
Industrial              13.8             72.8               82.4             84.0
Institutional           3.1               4.7                5.6              6.0
Total           66.4              164.8            204.1             230.2
Proposed Water Tariff
Location:                 Domestic   Commercial  Industrial  Institutional   Avg. Tariff
- Minimum       8.30       24.90         41.50       8.30        20.66
- Maximum      9.45        27.39        45.65       12.45        36.80
QkngajQ..iZx-Minimum      6.05        12.10        12.10       6.05         8.00
-Maximum        7.11        14.22        14.22        7.11        8.00
6.     Power Distribution: Two tariffs are included in the financial analysis; one for commercial
enterprises, and the other for domestic consumers. Future tariff rates have not been determined by
SBMA although a new tariff structure is in prospect which will differentiate between domestic,
commercial, industrial, and institutional users. The tariff used in the financial analysis for domestic
consumers, P 3.18 per kWh, is based on the tariff levied elsewhere in the Philippines and SBMA's
estimate of investors' and other consumers' willingness to pay. The tariff used for commercial
enterprises (P 4.6 per kWh) equates to US$0.18 per kWh. This is high by international standards and
it roughly equates to the cost of power if it were generated on site by the consumer. These rates are
needed for the power enterprise to be viable.
7.    Bulk power purchases from the NPC account for approximately 75 percent of the estimated
cost of distributing power in the project area so the analysis is sensitive to changes in the price of bulk
power. The NPC rate used in the analysis is P 2.3 8/kWh which is in-line with the agreement
between the World Bank and NPC in which the NPC projects that the average selling rate will
increase from P 1.73/kWh in 1995 to P 3.0/kWh in 2000.
8.    In the Philippines the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) generally regulates wholesale and
retail tariffs; the latter varies between suppliers because of the method used for determining tariffs.
ERB regulations relating to the fixing of retail power charges do not apply to SBMA because of the
special status of the organization so the tariffs proposed in the analysis can be charged without ERB
approval. Olongapo City power distribution is regulated by ERB but when integrated with SBMA the
power distribution business in Olongapo City will have the same status as the rest of SBMA's power
business.



- 63 -                                Annex 8
Page 3 of 13
Billing and Collection Efficiency
9.    Water supply, Water demand is projected to rise by about 64 million cubic meters per annum
by the year 2010 and it is anticipated that this additional requirement can be met by the proposed
works which will be financed under the project. The financial analysis shows, on average, that by the
year 2000 incremental water sales of about 33 million cubic meters will be achieved with a value of
about US$12 million. By the year 2010 this is expected to rise to 57 million cubic meters. Under the
project it is anticipated that twenty wells will be drilled of which twelve will be equipped in the first
instance. The remaining wells will be equipped as demand requires. It is assumed that accounts will
be issued for incremental water sales and that all billings will be collected by SBMA as Subic Water
will be the only enterprise which draws on SBMA's bulk supply.
10.   The current metering and consequential collection for water delivered is low (see Chapter 3).
As a result, one of SBMA's principal targets will be to install meters to all existing water users as
quickly as possible and to install meters simultaneously with new water connections. This action will
be essential for the viability of Subic Water.
11.   Power supplvy  The basis of the power component is to rehabilitate and rationalize the power
distribution network and to buy power for SBMA's distribution network from the NPC. The financial
analysis includes assumptions on the growth of power in the SBF and Olongapo City and these are in-
line with projected industry and population growth trends. In addition, the analysis includes
important assumptions relating to usage and live losses and billing efficiency. The assumptions
included in the model estimate that usage and live losses will equal 12 percent and that billing
efficiency will equal 85 percent in 2000. These cost items are projected to decline to eight percent
and 95 percent respectively by the year 2004. SBMA's non-revenue producing administrative
consumption is projected to decline from  10 percent in 2000 to 4 percent in 2005.  These
improvements in efficiencies are crucial for the viability of the power component.
12.   Current losses in both the SBF and Olongapo City are significant. In the SBF the number of
consumers who are actually metered is minimal and the administrative consumption is very high at
approximately 40 percent of the total SBMA consumption. In Olongapo City in 1994 systems losses
were over 30 percent and this does not include billing efficiency. The problem of monitoring and
reducing non technical losses needs to be addressed with a degree of urgency if the projections in the
financial analysis are to be achieved. As identified, this will require a major review of metering
requirements to: (i) establish a method of accounting for administrative consumption (currently
estimated at about 40 percent of total SBMA consumption); (ii) provide individual meters to all
domestic consumers in all SBMA housing areas; and (iii) undertake a systematic recalibration and, if
necessary, replacement of all consumer-owned meters in the Olongapo franchise area. In addition, it
is necessary to upgrade the existing Olongapo computer billing system to process the bills for all
consumers in the supply area and provide basic information for management and monitoring of the
loss reduction program. In line with these requirements, SBMA is planning to install a primary
metering system in 1996 for industrial consumers, including those whose requirements are above 300
KVA. Once this new system has been installed, the tariff will be restructured. For the bulk of
residential consumers in SBF, SBMA is installing individual metered connections to replace the
single meters used for groups of houses under the Naval administration.



- 64 -                                 Annex 8
Page 4 of 13
Interest Costs
13.   Because SBMA is the borrower under the project and because the power distribution network
and bulk water supply facilities will be totally owned and controlled by SBMA, no on-lending charge
has been factored into the interest charges included in the financial analysis. However, as the GOP is
guaranteeing the loan and is charging SBMA a one percent guarantee charge this charge has been
added to the current IBRD rate of 6.94 percent. A commitment fee of 0.75 percent for undisbursed
loan balances has also been included in the analysis of the water and power components. The
financial analysis also shows interest charges at constant prices.
Summary of Financial Analysis - Water Supply Component
14.   Costs: Total investment capital cost of the water supply component, including physical
contingencies, is estimated to be P 698 million (US$26.9 million.) Incremental operating and
maintenance costs are estimated at about P 200 million in 2000 rising to about P 400 million by
2010. (Power is estimated to make up about 80 percent of total operating costs.)
15.   Revenue: Revenue generation from the sale of treated bulk water is based on proposed tariffs
as outlined above and projected incremental consumption rates: (i) domestic 240 I/day; (ii) industrial
19 1/m2 of floor space; (iii) commercial (office) 2.5 U1m2 of floor space daily; (iv) commercial (retail)
15 1/m2 of floor space daily, and (v) hotels 2.5 1/m2 floor space daily. This projected demand is net
of non revenue water costs. Non revenue water is estimated at five percent of total water pumped.
System  losses are expected to be zero.  The analysis assumes that construction of the water
installations will be completed by 1999 and that 2000 will be a full revenue producing year.
16.   Financial Rate of Return: Based on these assumptions, the FIRR for the water supply
component is 14.8 percent. The analysis shows that this component should generate a positive cash
flow (after interest) in its first full year of operation (the year 2000).
Summary of Financial Analysis - Power Distribution Component
17.   Costs: Total investment capital cost of the power distribution component, including physical
contingencies, is estimated to be P 581 million (US$22.3 million). To determine incremental unit
costs per kWh, three activities were taken into consideration for operating and maintaining the
transmission and distribution system: (a) operating the 69 KV lines including management of NPC
billings; (b) costs of power purchases from NPC; and (c) personnel, administrative, and direct
operating and maintenance costs (fuel and lubricants for vehicles including repairs) for the
consolidated distribution activities of SBMA and Olongapo City.
18.   Revenue: For purposes of determining gross incremental revenue from SBMA and Olongapo
City's sale of power, a domestic consumer rate of P 3.18 per KWH was used, and P 4.6 was used for
commercial consumers. It should be noted that SBMA now charges its customers a uniform rate per
kWH of P 2.75 and Olongapo City P 3.50. Thus, while the new rate would represent a substantial
increase for the secured area, it is considered well within the capacity of domestic consumers to pay,
especially as these are mostly international clientele. The rate for domestic consumers in Olongapo
City would be nearly 10 percent lower than at present, thus increasing affordability and the potential
customer base.



- 65 -                                   Annex 8
Page 5 of 13
19.    Financial Analysis: The analysis of SBMA's power distribution proposals revealed important
financial concerns which will play a critical role in the overall financial viability of the power
distribution enterprise. The major concerns are: (i) the current high level of usage and live losses;
(ii) the current high level of SBMA administrative usage; (iii) the current dependence of SBMA on
NPC and their planned tariff increases; and (iv) the retail cap which SBMA can charge for power. If
SBMA charges excessive rates consumers will convert to their own generators.
20.    The analysis thus highlights the importance for SBMA to structure its tariffs to extract
maximum revenue without inhibiting demand. It also highlights the importance of minimizing losses
and bad debts and establishing a procedure for minimizing administrative consumption.
21.    Financial Rate of Return: Based on these assumptions, the FIRR for the power distribution
component is 18.7 percent. It is anticipated that this component will not show a positive net operating
revenue until the third full year of operation (the year 2002).
Financial Risks
22.    The bulk water supply enterprise will only have one customer, Subic Water, so the collection
of revenue should not be a major task. On the other hand, SBMA's bulk water supply enterprise will
not have a spread of clients (or risk) and if Subic Water is unable to meet its financial commitments,
SBMA's water enterprise will be vulnerable. The financial viability of the enterprise is very sensitive
to the tariff charged by SBMA to Subic Water. In the financial analysis a tariff of P 9.5 per cubic
meter was used, and this produced a financial rate of return of 14.8 percent as indicated. If this tariff
is reduced by 15 percent to P 8.0 per cubic meter, the financial rate of return falls to 4.5 percent.
This analysis shows that great care needs to be exercised in establishing the bulk water tariff.
23.    SBMA's proposed power supply enterprise faces greater financial risk than the bulk water
supply enterprise because of usage and live losses, billing efficiency and wholesale tariffs levied by
NPC. The financial analysis assumes that usage and live losses and billing efficiency will improve
significantly between 1996 and 2000. If this does not occur, the enterprise will not be viable. A
sensitivity analysis was undertaken on the base data prepared in the financial analysis. In one
alternative, usage and live losses were increased to 15 percent, and this reduced the financial rate of
return from 18.7 percent to 6.8 percent. A further analysis increased live losses to 20 percent and this
resulted in a negative return. An analysis of billing efficiency produced similar results. For example,
if the billing efficiency in the model is reduced to 85 percent, the financial rate of return falls to one
percent. Tariff levels are also critical. If the commercial and industrial rate used in the model is
reduced from P 4.6 to P 4.0 per kWh, the financial rate of return falls to zero.



-66 -                                                                    Annex 8
Page 6 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Financial Analysis - Bulk Water Supply Component
Cder.-dw     1 n' 111117  1      1m   | 2000     001       2002    2003    2004  |200          200 | 2007    2006  | 709   2010-15
CAPITAL CASH FLOW
Irre4w0lt costs (so0)                   1818a0  12031.9  13006.2
9O n o.i,sbons tS000)
.IBRD 10n                               1098.0  7660.2  933a.5
- SS   corrboorl                         720.0  4377.7  3667.7
I"8                                     i1a.l  1237.9  1300 2
OPERATOAL CAS# FLOW
-NIt ir=Iy.r(i6A3yr)                                               31.40    34.25    37.09    39.94    42.78    45.63    47.52    49.41    51.30    53.19    55.07
-Dry year (rvipa"                                                  39.e5    4250    45.34    41.19    51.03    53.aa    55.77    57.e6    59.55    61.44    63.33
erolaitYebrr t PM3                                 14.94    14.75    14.75    14.65    14.55    14.32    14.20    14.10    14.00    13.90    13.69
WhoWsales wtw4bryern(phn3)                                           9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5      9.5     9.5      S.5      9.5
an>s Onti    (P.rnil)
-Nomfi ruinfal ywar                                                298.3   325.4   352.4   379.4    409.4   433.5    451.4    489.4   487.4   505.3   523.2
- Dry yew                                                          376.7   403.5   430.7   457.8   484.8   511.9   529.8   547.9   56S.7   583.7   601.6
_d. t Oht DAM co. nonil or (P nOt)
*Ad.nistration                                                      12.6    13.7    14.5    16.0    17.1    18.3    19.0    19.8    20.5    21.3    n3o
Psonost                                                             7.9      a.s      9.3    10.0    10.7    11.4    11.9        12.4    12.8      13.2    13.9
-Power, wg tbet.pI pg.6OMk9Wm3 A 0P   4.0                           95.3   104.0    112.6   121.3   129.9   138.5   144.3   150.0   155.7   161.5   167.2
-Pow, planttoS9FIOC  0.5WV8*3@P    4.6                              72.2    78.8    85.3    91.9    96.4    104.9   109.3    113.8   118.0   122.3   126.7
-Chnwicals                                                           6.9      7.5      S.2      6.S      S.4    10.0      10.5    10.9    11.3      11.7    12.1
- Equdprh d                                                         12.8    13.7    14.8    16.0    17.1    18.3    19.0           19.8    20.5    21.3    22.0
-Non-r*~~  pr5d,,M  wmto                                            5.0      5.5      5.8      8.4      8.8      7.3      7.8      7.9     8.2      8.5      8.8
Total                                                              212.4   231.7    250.9   270.2   259.4   308.7    321.5   334.3   347.1    359.9   372.8
Incrmmerital O8Mctdry year(P. rbi)                                282.9   282.2   301.4   320.7   339.9   359.2    372.0   384.7   397.5   410.3   423.1
Nol ooen rr2 (P.n*
Norl minfli yewr                                                   s5.9    93.7   101.4   109.2   117.0    124.8    129.9   135.1   1403    14f.4   150.8
- Dry ye.r                                                         113.8   121.8   129.3   137.1    144.9    1527    157.9    163.0    166.2   173.4   178.5
Ave,raop.M.(P.ni (on drlyyewrin4)                                   92.8    1 0.6   108.4   116.2   124.0   131.7    136.9   142.1    147.3   1524    157.8
9s1 ave oo anon  v. (S MO)                                        3570.5  3a70.6  4188.7  4419.2  4757.3  5067.0   5265.8   5464.9  5663.7  5862.5   69.8
lJrrg (0 000)
IBRD cordonnnt feh                      127.5    70.0
-Ro irDirnt                               87.2   695.4  1430.9  1436.9  1430.9  1341.1   1245.3  1149.5  1053.7   957.9   862.1   766.3   670.5   574.8
Totajir4entot                            214.7   78S.4  143e,9  1438.9   1436.9  1341.1  1245.3  1149.5  1053.7   557.9   582.1    768.3    670.5   574.8
Total iteres @ 156 pdcos                 214.7   747.5  1370.3  1338.2  1206.8   1191.1  1080.1    973.7    571.9   773.8   680.1   590.4    504.5   422.3
Op ntrng re  d aftwrirddre              .214.7  -747.5  -1370.3  2232.3  2563.7  2977.5  3389.0  3793.7  4195.4  4492.0  4784.a  5073.3   5358.0  sa37.4
IBRD captal nvymrs                                                                  1208.4  1208.4  1208.4  1206.4   1206.4  1206.4  1206.4  1206.4  1206.4
tm cash flaw eS(So                      -214.7  -747.5  -1370.3  2232.3  2563.7  1771.1   2182.8  2587.2  298a.9   3285.5  3578.4  3286.9  4151.5  4430.9
Cimistin. ec,h  flaw     3)             -214.7  -962.2  D2332.5   -100.2  2483.5  4234.9  6417.2  9004.4  11993.4  15278.9  18857.3  22724.2  26875.7  31306.8



- 67 -                                Annex 8
Page 7 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return - Bulk Water Supply Component
Period  Year        Incremental        Capital     Net cash    Discounted
Revenue      Costs    investment     flow      cash flow
($ mill.)    ($ mill.)    ($ mill.)    ($ mill.)    ($ mill.)
1    1997                                1.818       -1.818     -1.623
2    1998                               12.038      -12.038     -9.597
3    1999                               13.006      -13.006     -9.258
4    2000        12.227      8.656                   3.570       2.269
5    2001        13.268      9.397                   3.871       2.196
6    2002        14.306      10.137                  4.169       2.112
7    2003        15.347      10.878                  4.469       2.022
8    2004        16.385     11.617                   4.767       1.925
9    2005        17.426     12.359                   5.067       1.827
10   2006        18.117      12.851                   5.266       1.695
11   2007        18.807      13.342                   5.465       1.571
12   2008        19.498      13.834                   5.664       1.454
13   2009        20.188      14.326                   5.862       1.344
14   2010        20.876      14.817                   6.060       1.240
15   2011        20.876      14.817                   6.060       1.107
16   2012        20.876      14.817                   6.060       0.988
17   2013        20.876      14.817                   6.060       0.883
18   2014        20.876      14.817                   6.060       0.788
19   2015        20.876      14.817                   6.060       0.704
20   2016        20.876      14.817                   6.060       0.628
FIRR=        14.8 %



- 68 -                                                                    Annex 8
Page 8 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Financial Analysis - Power Supply Component
CJend ryzn   I"? | m             Is"|   m  200     2001 | 2002  |2003 |2004  |2005  |200e    2007 |  0S|2009   2010.15
CAPITAL CASH  FLOW
rax inr t pen  ao.,ty A( A2000)        1373.8  5519.1  9934.4  5519.1
rorn dso  bosems4 S, 000)
T-Rhoan                                78323. 391769 7052.2  391749
SBP   contnbution Saoo    1E01.2  2802.2 11O12
-                                      1373a8   551911 134.4  5519.1
OPERtATIONAL CASH FLOW
nestonsee           VAr                                            13125    164.8   190.9   2042    211.1   215.2        216    2175 2     25      21.0      2.7
I sawePSD                                                          124.8   1372    151.0    19.1    162.7   200.9   221.0   243.1    2674    294.2   323.
Ohagpo PUD                                                        150.3   16S.4   181.9   200.l   220.1   242.1   268.3   293.0   322.3   354.5   389.9
Total                                                              275.1   302.5   332.9   395 2    402.8   443.0   49753    536.1    589.7   948.7    713.0
Asverge reumption Dle tem (
Comerial consum rs                                                  46       4.      4.       4.6           71       71       71       71      71            71
-Ooeticconsumers                                                    2      3 25       25      25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25
SBMA                                                                1D        a        a       4        4        4        4        4        4        4        4
Inorenrenhalo.Re.(Ps7 12.0                                                     10.0          2 6.6     2.7   1.3   1 .8  1902    29.0    202    23.0
rBMlig fncieny                                                     hS.0    87.5    90.0    92.5    95.0    95.0    95.0    rBs o         95 D     95.0    95.0
A-one Weail salina oftts (PhW.h)
Cmrclconsuners                                                4.6      4.S      4.e     4.       CS4      4.o      4.6      4.6      4J6      4.a      4.8
DoMestic oftsume                                                   3.18    3.18     3.18     3,18     318     3.18     3.18     3.181    3.18     3.18     3.18
=nrmttO    e (,Pmillon)                                      77n.9    9a.9  1094.0  1265.6  1429.7  1572.3  172986  1902.8  203.0   2302.4  2532.4
Averae retail once rev coected (PMAVh)                              4.21     4.21    4.22     4.23     4.23     4.23    4.23     4.23     4.23     4.23      4.23
I     EY. IP i ion)
- wrolesalepoere ostper 45h                                         2.38     2.38    2.38     2.38     2.38     2.3a     2.38    2.36     2.38     2.38      2.38
-PrcahasefromNPC                                                   654.7   720.2   792.3   871.6   958.7  1054.3  1156.8  1275.9  1403.5  1543.9  1698.1
-Personnel expnses                                                 137.5   151.3   166.4   183.0   201.3   221.4   243.9   287.9   294.7   324.2   356.6
Adnisratrativ-e sp-res                                              27.5    30.3    33.3      38.6    40.3    44.3    48.7    53.6        58.9     64.a    71.3
DeprWeiation                                                       57.1    57.1    57.1    57.1    57.1        57.1    57.1    57.1      57.1     57.1    57.1
Total                                                              876.e  966.9  1046.1  1146.3  1257.4  1377.1  1509.2  16S4.5  114.2  1990.0  21U3.1
N9t098!8tj0tr9el8e (P nim-)                                        -98.0   -35.0    44.9   117.3   172.3   195.2   220.4   248.3   278.6   312.4    349.3
Net operatingrevenewe   (S000)                                   -3768.5  -1348.5  1727.8  4511.5  8826.9  7507.9  8477.2  9548.8  10724.8  12016.7  13434.6
(rflr9 (S '000)
l  0BRDcoitm   f                         111.7    82.3    29.4
I-BR interes                             62.2   373.3   633.2  1244.3  1244.3  1181.4  1078.4   996.5   912.5   929.8   748.5   663.6  50.7   497.7
Total interet                            173.9   4s5.6   962.6  1244.3  1244.3  1181.4  1078.4   995.5   912.5   826.8   746.6    63.8    580.7   497.7
Totalinterest8 1998prlces               173.9   444.9   918.0  1158.9  1131.7  1031.5   935.4   843.2   754.8   870.1    581.0   511.2   436.9    365.7
Oeratina reVewe ater iterest           -173.9  -444.9  -918.0  -4927.3  -2478.2   698.1  3576.1   5763.7  8753.1  7807.1  8959.9  10213.5  11579.8  13069.2
BRDc otbanlol vrn1 1044.8  1044.8  1044.8  1044.8  1044.8  1044J.  1044.8  1044.8  1044.8
Not6L6b i9Ew0002                       -173.9  -444.9  -918.0  -4927.3  -2478.2  -348.7  2531.3  4736.9  5708.3  5762.3  7915.1  9168.8  10535.1  12024.4
CunuyLtivy cmow t0009                   -1739   418.8  -1536.8  -8444.2  4942.3  -6291,0  4759.7  -2020.7  3S87.6  10449.9  1355.0  27533.8  38068.8  50093.2



- 69 -                               Annex 8
Page 9 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return - Power Supply Component
Period  Year        Incremental         Capital     Net cash    Discounted
Revenue      Costs    investment      flow      cash flow
($ mill.)    ($ mill.)    ($ mill.)    ($ mill.)    ($ mill.)
1    1997                                 1.374      -1.374       -1.227
2    1998                                 5.519       -5.519      -4.400
3    1999                                 9.934       -9.934      -7.071
4    2000        29.956      33.725       5.519       -9.288      -5.902
5    2001        35.534      36.880                   -1.346      -0.764
6    2002        42.078      40.350                    1.728       0.875
7    2003        48.675      44.164                    4.511       2.041
8    2004        54.987      48.360                    6.627       2.676
9    2005        60.475      52.967                    7.508       2.707
10   2006        66.522       58.045                   8.477       2.729
11    2007       73.184       63.635                   9.549       2.745
12   2008        80.501       69.776                  10.725       2.753
13   2009        88.555       76.539                  12.017       2.754
14   2010        97.401       83.967                  13.435       2.749
15   2011        97.401      83.967                   13.435       2.454
16   2012        97.401       83.967                  13.435       2.192
17   2013        97.401      83.967                   13.435       1.957
18   2014        97.401       83.967                  13.435       1.747
19   2015        97.401       83.967                  13.435       1.560
20    2016       97.401       83.967                  13.435        1.393
FIRR=        18.7 %



- 70 -                                                                             Annex 8
Page 10 of 13
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Financial Analysis - Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority Cash Flow
C'-wwo   1t                      16       o        21         6            2 10        26a      2_       2W67   2           2.   2I .15
CAM& A.CAS  PLOW
fi26.6  W42.       go0.6 oo01
&A -W.**                                1616.0  12037.9  130082
.P-e_elb                                13273.   0611.1   964A   510.1
* ft.Re_*& 54dg~                        1028.6  16448.5  102A   3610.1
- 0o.hgeeb *.                            025        6.5 0    6        6.0
5064.  3648111  24110. :.     4.
1IBflR.lW0001                           4273.1  222.1  22215.1   06628
CAPITALCASH FLOW       1               -.15117 *12748.0 .1O6001  43112.0
OPRA7T04  CASH PLOW
.6.Awd..                                                          122257  13206.0  14306.7  SU647.1  14    17420.1  16116.7  1o7.3  16497.6  2010A  20670.
. Pe_e3n.5144p..                                                  256551  30022   42077.7  48572  54U07.1  1474.9  65622.3  7314.1  SOS1O2   61SSSJ  074014
.R-fb 4 b--
E 4.WW c.*.
Toel                                                              42182.7  48616  SOMA  640222  713711  771JO.0  64836.0  919614  o6nWo.0 106743A  116277.8
662   0W. 7    1015 7.0  10877.   116174  t1260.1  1260A   133423  13034.1  14325.0  14816.8
- P_rehn68.o                                                     327241  36660.3  402.1  44103.7  4as82  52566.0  56U042  028383   3776A4 7n6sn.7  086.5
.Rf&4dg.                                          150I0    IS100    100.0       1 0.    10.    50.0    100.0    60.0     6.00    160.0    110.0   1000.0   1S0.0
. E5dm    n.                               565      6.0      0.4      0.      10J      10.J    10.J      11J      11J      1160    125       12.5     12.5      125
Tetd                                       IS   10.0   1664  42540.7  441  5S47.7  063021  101386  6076  7105.0  771401  62772.0  91677.1  06485.7
OERgATINCfl.CASH FL(SOWO                  4J    -1560   .10 54   .77J   2632s   57367   06157  112326  12413.3  13S11  140512  16226.0  1 68.7  192310
CASH FLOW BEFORE ITERESTW D)   .14072 .12D .0 10 I S  .740SJ   23630   5757   06S1.7  112322   124133  13* A1  148512  16.0  1686.7  191331
.18* D                                    SW41    223A      484
-10 9RD                                  3302   21442   3067.5   411.0   4110   42102   00061 3J          6    3306.0  3007.3  27068   24S06    2106.1   180.
TOW Wed                                  723    2w8       40161   48110   48110   42102   30615   3806   32062   3007.    27061   2405A   2105.   16044
TdWkftb6d@lU6pw                          7332   2312.3  2646.   42012   4102.7  3736A4   33601   206.7   273    24203   2135.1   1652A4  118.7   1325.7
C..     ehUe                           .23631 -15202 .1406         7671.1  .1728    16663   8421 J    1762   0677.0  11M11   12716.1  14272.0  t02M2  160062
1SR0 M"                                                                              I7071   176S    70s    U77    1767 1277.5  27n715   3771S   3717
FM =h  W WM.22631 -16220.3 .1480    -.7A711  -171    .17012    641.3   4361   SOSA   73642  6S63    10606.1  11491.A  14218A
CunvAellys enh *tw (SV=                .23021  -170732  424n83  .40154.7 *41MA  4-8 64 1420421  -376860 -SIMA6 .244013 -16472.7  487.7  46.7  20626



SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
Financial Projections
28 April 1995  4:16PM
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT              1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       2000      2001       2002       2003       2004
In Thousands Pesos
BEGINNING CASH POSITION          634,360     93,733    136,550    168,402    196,697    219,704    237,922    256,419    265.470    276,672
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION         387,210  1,085,826    972,833  1.092,582    551,386    640,100    737,341    818,694    880,981  1,087,186
Net Income Beore Interest and Other Lo  (127,804)  1234,049)  (134.1411    82,772    148,812    224,960    321,619    391,912    452.457    691,113
less: Amortized Income            36,153     73.060    106.310    133,860    134,465    141,381    142,738    144,230    145.872    147.679
add: Receipts from Long-term Lease of   252,000  1,012,500    787,500    675.000
add: Receipts from Golf Course    28,000      5,000      5,500      6,050      6.655     7,321      8,053      8,858      9,744     10.718
add: Receipts from Water & Sewerage  5,913    5,000      1.250      1.250      1,250      1,250     1,250      1,250      1,250      1.250
add : Depreciation Expense       283,292    370,717    452.912    513,274    554,806    572,426    577,603    579,487    579.487    579,487
Working Capital Increasel(Decrease)  l18,037)  (283)   (33,878)   (51,903)   (25.672)   (24,476)   (28,447)   (18,582)   (16.084)   (47.704)
OPERATING CASH POSITION         1,021,571   1,179,559  1.109,383  1,260,984    748,083    866,054    982,138  1,082.676  1,154,770  1,373,008
...
DEBT SERVICE                      63.098    229.346    294,581    364.175    376.201    371.340    289,809    272.674    263,963    255.099
Interest Charges                   53,897    108.124    165.889    203,118    214,890    206,110    188,056    169,540    159.107    148.430
Repayment of Notes
Ptincipal Repayments                        102,500    102,500    131.250    131,250    136,049    74,243     77,243     80,618     84,118
Other Fees/Charges                 9,201     18,722     26.192     29,807     30,061     29,181    27,509     25,891     24,239     22,551
FUNDS AFTER DEST SERVICE         958,472    950,213    814,802    896,810    371,882    494,714    692,329    810,002    890,807  1,117.909
0.e
FUNDS FROM LOANS & CONTRIBUTIONS
IBRO (World Bankl Loan           530,277    341 692     44,231
IECDF IExirnbank) Loan           434,526    181,963
Philippine National Bank Loan    602,249
IBRD Loan 2                                 176,963    680,438    369,788     42,000                                                              -
Notes Payable
Governrnent Appropriations        51,023
Grants & Subsidies                23,568        710
TOTAL LOANS & CONTRIBUTIONS     1,541,643    701,329    724,668    369,788    42,000
TOTALAVAILABLEFUNDS             2,500,115  1,651,541  1,539,470  1,266,597    413,882    494,714    692,329    810,002    890,807  1,117,909
CAPITAL INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS
IBRD-Funded Projects             689,360    444,200     57,500
IECDF-Funded Projects            434,526    181,963
lORD Loan 2                                 235,950    907,260    493,050     56,000
Other Construction Projects      314,208    496,666    165.937     80,067     75,709    75.355
Equipment Purchases              767,751    144,210
TOTAL CAPITAL OUTLAYS           2,205.845  1,502,990  1,130,687    573,107    131,709    75,355
FUNDS AFTER CAPITAL OUTLAYS       294,270    148,551    408,783    693,490    282,173    419,360    692.329    810,002    890.807  1,117,909
MINIMUM REQUIRED CASH BALANCE      93,733    136,550    168,402    196,697    219,704    237,922    256,419    265,470    276,672    288,816
TOTAL CASH SURPWUSJiDEFICIT)      200,537    12.002    240,381    496,794     62,469    181,437    435,910    544,532    614,134    829,094
IF:  1. CASH SURPLUS                                                                                                                           8
Cash Available               200,537     12,002    240,381    496,794    62,469    181,437    435,910    544,532    614,134    829,094     _
Dividends to Government                                                                        53.027     98,241    134,556    260,066     -
Purchase of Securities       200,537     12,002    240,381    496,794    62,469    181,437    382,883    446,292    479,579    569,027     0
2. CASH DEFICIT
Cash Required
Sale of Securities
Additional Financing Required



SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
Financial Projections
28 April 1995  4:16PM
REVENUE SCHEDULE (Cash)               1995       1996        1997       1998       1999        2000       2001       2002        2003       2004
In Thousands Pesos
LAND & BUILDING LEASE REVENUES     523,488   1,329,217   1,182,759   1,175,739    559,848    586,656    600,399    634,929    670,861    725,698
REVENUES FROM EXISTING LOCATORS    201,936     172,600    152,700    139,050    112,975    103,225       89,850     95,500    100,675    100.675
Industrial Concerns              88,312     69,950      54,725     43,625     19,150      10,875      6,650      7,225       7,850      7,850
Commercial/Tourism Concerns      85,792     79,650      80,050     80,725     78,075      77,450     77,325     81,850      85,825     85,825
Others                           27,832     23,000      17,925     14,700     15,750      14,900      5,875      6,425       7,000      7,000
REVENUES FROM INDUSTRIAL FACILITI   22,512      48,267     86,036    122,515    153,559    171,052      177,864    185,120    192.847    223.157
Lease ol ExistiiiU Duildings    18,816     26,838     42,874      45,660     48,628      51,789     55,156     58,741      62,559     66,625
Land Lease of Undeveloped Areas   3.696      7,029      16,163     26,454     38,690      53,022     56,469     60,139      64.048     68,211
Land Lease of Subic Bay Industrial P        14,400      27,000     50,400     66,240      66,240     66,240     66,240      66,240     88.320
REVENUES FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVI     20,160      70,290    129,302    210,183    262,439    279,498    297,665    317,013    337,619    359.564
Lease of Existing Buildings      20,160     38,340      61,248     65,229     69,469      73,985     78,794     83,915      89,370     95.179
Land Lease of Commerical Areas              31,950      68,054    144,954    192,970    205,513    218,871     233,098    248,249    264,386
REVENUES FROM HOUSING UNITS        278,880   1,038,060    814,721     703,991     30,875     32,882      35,019     37,296     39.720      42,302
Short-term Lease of Housing Units  26,880   25,560      27,221     2B.991  .  30,t75      32.882     35,019     37,296      39,720     42.302
Long-term Lease of Housing Units  252,000   1,012,500    787,500    675,000
Housing Joint-Venture
REVENUES FROM SUPPORT OPERATION     122,373    193,714    361,920    544,781    672,752    853,412   1,061,058   1,153,933   1,234,702   1.486,840
Port Operations                  40,320     72,000    144,000    198,000    217,800    239,580    333,815    367,196    403.916    561,231
Airport Operations               26,950     59,250      59,250     70,050     70,050      81,570    101,730      77,668    120,960    120.960
Lease of Power Plant             19,600     17,500      17,500
Power Distribution               29,590     39,964    139,920    275,481    383,652    524,762    617,388    700,257    700,257    794,249
Water & Sewerage                  5,913      5,000       1,250      1,250       1,250      1,250      1,250       1,250      1,250       1,250
Telecommunications                                                                         6,250      6,875       7.563      8,319      9,151
SPECIALIZED FACILITIES & CONCESSIO  251,825    237,246    256,401     333,131    357,337    359,800    369,220    377.873    386,988    397,923
Petroleum, Oil and Lubricant Depot I    114,800    102,500    102,500    131,250    131,250    131,250    131,250    131,250    131,250    131,250
Golf Course Concession           28,000      6,000       5,500      6,050      6,655       7,321      8,053       8,858      9,744     10,718
Marina Concession                 2,541      2,471       6,026     35,418     40,528      23,336     25,984     27,189      28,110     30,032
Grande Island IF.U. JUAN)         2,604      2,525
SBMA-Operated Hotels/Houses      60,480     81,000      94,500    108,000    121,500    135,000    135,000    135,000    135.000    135,000
Other Tourism Concessions        42,000     41,250      45,375     49,913     54,904      60,394     66,434     73,077      80,385     88,423
Merchandise Control System
Toll Revenues (SBMA-Tipo Expressw
Security Services
Others                            1,400      2,500       2,500      2,500      2,500       2,500      2,500      2,500       2,500      2,500  Q
INTEREST INCOME                      6,862      18,384     23,962     38,090      60,397     63,200      70,517     85,832    103.684    122,867   t
Short-term Investments            2,654     10,675      11,155     20,770     40,642      43,141     50,398     65,714      83.565    102.749   
Interest Earned on Security Deposits  4,208  7,709      12,807     17,320     19,754      20,059     20,118     20,118      20,118     20,118   _
gTOTAL REVENUES                    904,547   1,778,561   1,825,043   2,091,740   1,650,333   1,863,069   2,101,193   2,252,567   2.396,235   2,733.328



SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
Financial Projections
28 April 1995 4:16PM
BALANCE SHEET
In Thousands Pesos
ASSETS                          1995      1996       1997       1998      1999       2000      2001       2002       2003      2004
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                    217.089    398,632    546,657    684,418    719.703    740,876    759,373    768,423    779,625    791,769
Cash Available for Ope    93,733    136,550    168,402    196,697    219,704    237,922    256,419    265,470    276,672    288,816
Security Deposits & Ad   123,356    262,082    378,265   487,721    499,999    502.953    502,953    502,953    502,953    502,953
Short-term Investments  266,877    278,879    519,260  1,016,054  1,078.523  1,259,960  1,642.844  2,089,136  2,568,714  3,137,742
Receivables             109,131    138,187    189,517    257.217    296,149    331,605    371.292    396,521    420,466    476,648
Inventories              30,383    44,427     58,827     71,324    81,072     88.310     95,566    97,970    101,311    104,976
Sub-Total                  623,481    860,125  1,314,261  2,029,013  2,175,447  2,420,751  2,869,074  3,352,049  3,870,116  4511 1351
LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS
Holdings in SBDMC        14,000     14,000    14,000     14,000    14,000     14,000     14,000    14,000     14,000     14,000
I Sub-Total                    14,000    14,000     14,000     14,000    14,000     14,000     14,000    14,000     14,000     14,000
FIXED ASSETS
Land and Land Improveme 15,222,007 16,222,007 15,222,007 15,222,007 15,222,007 15,222,007 15,222,007 16,222,007 15,222,007 15.222,007
Building and Structures    4,118,940  5,557,035  6,798,315  7,886,502  8,459,609  8,59f,317  8,666,672  8,666,672  8,666,672  8.666,672
Equipment             1.157,322  1,419,032  1,461,532  1,461,532  1,461,532  1,461,532  1,461.532  1,461,532  1,461,532  1,461,532
LESS: Accumulated Depre   729,307  1,100,024  1,552,936  2,066,210  2,621.016  3,193,442  3,771,045  4,350,532  4,930,018  5,509,505
Net Fixed Assets     19,768,963 21.098,051 21,928,918 22.503,832 22,522,132 22,081,415 21,579.166 20,999,680 20,420,193 19,840,706
Wo_ks in Process      1.438.095  1.241.280  1.088.187    573.107    11.709    75.356         0.         0                    0
Sub-Total               21,207.057 22.339.330 23.017,105 23,076,938 22,653.841 22.156.769 21.579,166 20.999.680 20.420,193 19,840,7061
,UTOTALASSETS              21.844,538 23,213,455 24,345,367 25, 11992 24,843,288 24.691,520 24,462,241 24.i65,729 24.304,309 24365841
UABIUTIES & CAPITAL             1995       1996      1997       1998      1999       2000       2001      2002       2003       2004
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Payables and Accrued Exp    93,733    136,580    168,402    196,697    219.704    237,922    256,419    265.470    276,672    288,816
Notes Payable                0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0          0         0
Deterred Credits         12,905     12,905    12,905     12,905    12,905     12.905     12,905    12,905     12.905     12 905
Sub-Total                  106,638    149,454    181,307   209,601    232,609    250,827    269_324    278 374   289_577   301 720
LONG-TERM LIABIUTIES
IBRO (World Bank) Loan  687,777  1,029,469  1,073,700  1,073,700  1,073,700  1,035,075    993,575    949,075    901,200    849.825
IECDF IEximbank) Loan   456,310    638,274    638,274    638,274    638,274    605,531    572,788    540,044    507,301    474,558
Philippine National Bank Lo    532,181    429,681    327,181    195,931  64,681    0          0         0          0          0
World Bank Loan 2             0    176,963    857,400  1.227,188  1,269,188  1,269,188  1,184,575  1,099,963  1,015,350    930,738
Deferred Credits (Pre-paym    464,099  1,413,539  2,101,479  2,649,919  2,523,359  2,396,799  2.270,239  2,143,679  2,017,119  1,890,559
Trust Liabilities       127,526    266,252    382,425    491,891    504,169    607.123    507,123    507,123    507,123    507,123
|  Sub-Total                2.267,893  3,954,178  5,380,459  6,276,902  6,073,370  5.813.715  5,528,300  5,239,884  4.948.094  4,652,803
CAPITAL
National Government Equit 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000 19,100,000
Paid-inCapital          817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815    817,815
Grants & Subsidies       23,568    24,279     24,279    24,279     24,279     24,279    24,279     24,279     24,279    24,279
Additional Capital Contribu  0          0        0          0          0         0          0          0         0                    '"
Retained Earnings      *471,376   -832,271  -1,158,493 -1,308,646 -1,404,785 -1,415,116 -1,362,089  -1,263,849 -1,129,293   -869,227
Beginning           *280,474   -471,376   -832,271  -1,158,493 -1,308,646 .1,404,785  -1,415,116 -1,362,089 -1,263,849 .1,129,293   0
Net Income          -190,902   -360,894   -326,222   -150,153    .96,139    -10,331    106,054    196,481    269.112   520,132      -r
Dividends                 0          0          0         0          0          0     53,027    98.241    134.556   260.066          w r
Sub-Total                19,470,007 19,109,823 18,783,601 18,633,448 18,537,309 18,526.978 18,664.617 18,847470 19,066,639 19.411.317          o
|ITOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL   21,844,538 23,213,455 24,345,367 26,119,952 24,843,288 24,591.520 24,462 241 24 365 729 24,304,309 24:365 841



- 74 -                                Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.    This project includes three key infrastructure components which are collectively necessary
for the continued development and expansion of the SBF. From the perspective of the economic
analysis, these three components (roads, water supply, and power distribution) can be evaluated
separately, however, in combination they provide a larger benefit to the development of the SBF
industrial zone as well as the surrounding metropolitan area. As each component is a necessary part
of a total development program if the SBF is to expand at the rate projected by SBMA. As the
general indicators of performance for the SBF show in the table below, SBMA projects a very
significant investment program during the period 1996-2005. These indicators are in line with the
development of the SBF to-date.
General Indicators of Progress for the SBF, 1996 to 2005
Indicator                   Unit    1996   1997   1998    1999   2000    2005
Cumulative investment     US$ mill   1,530   1,870   2,200   2,600   3,000   5,400
Jobs created by investors  '000        16     24      30      38      45      83
Total jobs                 '000        64     71      83      94     113    206
Value added/employee      US$ '000     20     23      26      30      33      50
Area population            '000       236    241    246       251    256    423
Industrial buildings      m2 '000     220    340    440       560    670   1,220
Office space built        m2 '000      33     45      60      80     100    210
Hotel rooms                 No.        75   1,050   1,350   1,650   2,000   4,000
International tourists    '000         60     85      110    135    160    330
Benefits
21.Benefits from a development similar to SBF are substantial and they range from direct visible
benefits such as increased employment and output to improved living standards and conditions. In
this project there will be two basic benefits: (i) an increase in development (and output) in planned
industrial parks and surrounding metropolitan areas; and (ii) the maintenance of existing businesses
and population in the SBF and surrounding metropolitan areas. For the economic analysis, only
estimated benefits from the increase in development were included. If the project were not to proceed
and existing businesses left SBF because of poor infrastructural services it is unlikely that they would
relocate outside the Philippines. Benefits from an increase in development have been measured in



- 75 -                                 Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
terms of an increase in the number of people employed and their subsequent wages and water and
electricity sales from the facilities to be built under this project . It should be noted that a facility such
as SBF provides a total service so it is difficult to realistically isolate all benefits which may accrue
from this project which includes a number of works to upgrade and maintain existing facilities.
Employment Benefits
3.    The table below provides an estimate of the employment by industry for four phases of future
development in the SBF. It is shown according to phased land development and it is expected that
the project will provide sufficient infrastructural facilities to allow each of four phases to be
developed.
Employment by Industry
SBDMC Phase 1  SBDMC Phase 2    SBDMC Phase 3          JAIDO
Completion due       1999            2000               2002             2002
Enterprise
Electronics      3,900             1,200             2,200            1,600
Garments         2,000             2,200              200             1,500
Manufacturing    3,400            2,400              1,600            5,500
Other              200                                                 100
TOTAL            9,500            5,800             4,000            8,700
4.    The benefits from the expanded capacity in the industrial parks is the value added to the
economy from those activities which could not otherwise be accommodated in the industrial park.
The value added from these industries could not be computed directly as there is no explicit plan as to
what precise outputs would be produced and what inputs would be required. Since this is an export
processing zone and the investors are all foreign companies, the production of most of the inputs will
be foreign. The only value added to the Philippines is from the employment in these industries, taxes,
and services provided to the industries and their employees. The value added from employment was
computed by taking the average compensation paid of US$3,000 and deducting the opportunity cost
of US$1,400. The latter is the estimated average urban wage for areas outside of Manila in 1996.
The number of employees was estimated by taking the projected growth in employment and
deducting 66 percent assuming that these people could have found employment elsewhere in the
Philippines. The total benefits derived from improved direct employment was multiplied by 1.25 to
take into account the employment in complementary service industries.
Benefits From Sale of Water and Electricity
5.    Tariff revenues from the sale of all electricity and water from installations financed under the
project have been taken into account as a proxy for benefits. This implies that increased consumption
of water and power is fully explained by projected changes in the income of customers.



- 76 -                                  Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
Other Assumptions Used in the Analysis
6.     Prqject analysis: All project costs and benefits have been included in one analysis of the
project as the further development of SBF is considered to be contingent on each of the components.
None of the components were evaluated separately.
7.    Project costs: Consultant's services, accounting for about 15 percent of total project costs,
have been included in economic costs, although direct benefits cannot be fully captured in
quantitative terms. The cost of unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 50 percent given the
lingering unemployment rate in the SBF- Olongapo area of close to 30 percent as a result of the
closing of the former naval base and about 20 percent in the Philippines in general. Investment costs
have been shadow priced at 95 percent of their financial value and all other operational inputs,
including bulk power purchased from NPC, have been shadow priced at 90 percent of the financial
price. This reflects the estimated labor content of all input items.
8.     PrQject life: The estimated economic life of all project components is 20 years.
9.     Replacement costs:  Post project replacement costs of transformers, pumps and related
equipment and vehicles have been included.
10.   Cost of capital: The opportunity cost of capital used in the analysis is 12 percent.
11.   Residual values: No residual values were added at the end of the projected economic life of
the project.
12.    Contingencies:  Physical contingencies of 15 percent were used for civil works and
equipment, but all price contingencies were excluded.
13.    Economic rates of return and sensitivity. The base case for the economic rate of return is
assessed using a billing efficiency for the power component of 85 percent in 2000 rising to 95 percent
in 2004. Usage and live losses are assessed on the basis of 12 percent in 2000 falling to eight percent
in 2002. This billing efficiency and live losses assumption is a considerable improvement over that
currently being achieved. The sensitivity analyses presented below assess the impact on the return
from the project if these improvements are not achieved. The returns from the water component are
not adjusted on the bases of billing efficiency or losses because the bulk water will only be sold to
one utility distribution organization, billing efficiency should be 100 percent. The sensitivity analysis
also assesses the impact of a reduction in the number of people employed resulting from the project.
EIRR
Base case                                                                         29.6%
Sensitivity analysis
*  Water and industrial development (employment) - as for base case
Power-live losses up from 8% to 20%                                        24.8%
*  Water and industrial development (employment) - as for base case
Power-live losses up from 8% to 30%                                        20.0%
*  Water and industrial development (employment) - as for base case
Power-live losses 8% billing efficiency down from 95% to 80%               24.5%



- 77 -                                   Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
*  Water and industrial development (employment) - as for base case
Power-live losses 8% billing efficiency down from 95% to 70%                  19.6%
*  Water and power- as for base case
*  Industrial development (employment) - employment down by 30%                  26.8%
*  Water - as for base case
Power - live losses up from 8% to 20%
Power - billing efficiency down from 95% to 80%
Industrial development (employment) - employment down by 20%                  17.1%
Crossover values
*  Benefits - benefits down 25.3%
*  Costs - Costs up 41%
*  Benefits and costs
Incremental benefits down 10% and incremental costs up to 24.7%
Net Present value
At 12%                                                               US$118 million
14.    The data above illustrates the project's sensitivity to variations in benefits and recurrent costs.
A range of possibilities incorporating maximum and minimum expectations, are covered. For the
"9maximum", or the base case, it is assumed that full benefits are obtained from increased employment
as outlined and tariff revenue for electricity and water. The analysis assumes that affordability is not
a problem for water and power. In the unlikely event that tariffs for both water and power have to be
increased simultaneously, affordability will become a problem for a maximum of 30 percent of the
population of Olongapo, the segment that lives below the poverty line.
15.    Crossover (switching) values for the project are also provided above. These indicate a
combination of changes in benefits and costs required to reduce the net present value (NPV) to zero
(or, alternatively, the rate of return to 12 percent, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in the
Philippines). Given the conservative assumptions used in the analysis the project is not particularly
sensitive to changes in revenue and costs. If benefits are reduced 25.3 percent and expenses
maintained at the base level the NPV falls to zero at a discount rate of 12 percent. If benefits are
maintained at the base rate recurrent expenses need to be increased by 41 percent to obtain a zero
NPV. Benefits need to be reduced by 10 percent and recurrent expenses increased by 24.7 percent
simultaneously to obtain zero NPV.
16.    Affordabilitv. A demographic analysis of Olongapo City's population shows that some 20
percent of its families cannot afford water and electricity . The project's power and water supply
components are expected to generate savings from metered billing in the Secured Area, more efficient
administration, and economies of scale that will lead to lower tariffs for small consumers-the base
rate for small consumers is projected to drop from P 3.72 to P 3.18 per kWh-and should increase
affordability. Both Subic Water and the consolidated power utility will look closely at making power
and water available to the entire population of Olongapo City through appropriate rate structures.
The project provides for tariff studies for both water and power distribution. The discussion on power
tariffs in the financial analvsis should be noted in the overall economic context of the project.
Philippines: Power Merger Studies of Olongapo City and SBMA, March 1996, Chapter 3.



REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Calendar years    1997   | 199           1999        2000       2001        2002        2003       2004        2005       2006        2007       2009        2009      2010-15
Investment costs ($S000)
- Institutonal strengthening           1072.2     1399.0       855 6      599 1
- Bulkwater supply                     1727.1    11436,0    12355.9
-Power dstribution                     1305.1     5243.1      9437.7     52431
- Roads & bridges                      987 0    15624.2       9755 9     3372.6
- Ecology centre                       499 2         4 8         4.8         4.8
Total Investment costs (S000)         559006    33707.0    32409.8       9219.6
Project beneftts
Industrial benefts
- Est new jobs in SBMA area                                    2375        6200       10025      17025       21650      24825       28000      28000       28000       28000      28000       28000
- Atributable to project- (33%)                                 784        2046        3308       5618        7145       8192        9240       9240        9240        9240       9240        9240
-Total industrial benefds                                      1568       4092        6617       11237      14289       16385      18480       18480       18480      18480       18480      18480                      00
Water suPIo ($000)                                                       12227       13268      14306       15347       16385      17426       18117      18807       19498      20188       20876
Power dedribution ($000)                                                  29956       35534      42078       48675      54987       60475      66522       73184       80501      88555       97401
Total benefits (S000)                                          1568       46275       55418      67620       78311      87756       96381     103119      110471      118479     127224      1367"
Recurrent costs (V000)
-Ecologycentre                             6           6           6          6           6           6          6           6          6           6          6           6           6          6
-Water supply                                                              7670        8326       8981        9637       10291      10948       11383      11818       12253       12689      13123
- Power supply, bulk power                                                22664       24930      27426       30169      33185       36496       40146      44166       48582      53443       58781
- Power supply, other                                                      5573        5935       6329        6763       7243        7768        8347       8984        9683       10454      11302
-Roads(maintenance)                                  135         135        135         135         135        135         135        135         135         135        135         900        135
Total recurrent costs                      6         141         141      36048       39332      42877       46710      50860       55353      60017       6110        70660       T7492      83348
Net project benefits (VOSO)            -5597      -33849      -30988       1007       16066      24743       31601      36897       41028      43102       45362       47019      48731       53406
IA
0E



- 79 -                                  Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Period     Year          Incremental       Capital  Net benefits Discounted
Benefits    Costs   investment            net benefits
($S000.)   ($'000)    ($'000)    ($'000)    ($'000)
1        1997                        6       5591      -5597      -4997
2        1998                      141      33707    -33849    -26984
3        1999          1568        141      32410    -30984    -22054
4        2000         46275      36048       9220       1007        640
5        2001         55418     39332                  16086       9128
6        2002         67620     42877                  24743      12535
7        2003         78311     46710                  31601      14295
8        2004         87756      50860                 36897      14902
9        2005         96381      55353                 41028      14795
10       2006        103119      60017                 43102      13878
11       2007        110471      65110                 45362      13040
12       2008        118479      70660                 47819      12274
13       2009        127224      77492                 49731      11397
14       2010        136758      83348                 53409      10929
15       2011        136758      83348                 53409       9758
16       2012        136758      83348                 53409       8712
17       2013        136758      83348                 53409       7779
18       2014        136758      83348                 53409       6945
19       2015        136758      83348                 53409       6201
20       2016        136758      83348                 53409       5537
EIRR=       29.6 %                         118710






EBRD 28291
lXr   lsr   MAP A                                                                   "' ows   \l   '                                                                        P H I L I P P I N  E S
tT. C-df,-Plnl  )                   'tA                                                                             -                                  SECOND SUBIC BAY FREEPORT
-                                                                                                                   -, ,/Q-   - --                                                    PROJECT
IUWOI .                                                                                                                                                                                        P-d-d b\ -   5 D.,-   , F Thoo., d 8p-dkTph. b-     Ae
/res~  Ir   'j  eS/S                                                                                                                             T h / \  -  79. Wp 4d o.ol G-oop, ooy Iodg-.  A. IgGolpay l,o, ooy
KAL                                                                                                                                                      -2-  1 0r  -  ,_
ROADS AND BRIDGES COMPONENT.  ;7y  n                 V,                       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAS 00StAS Ofle                                     *    Ar,IU*OT~L5
V                        T SEWERAGEDTREATMENT-PLANTS,-__X S                                                       -  EXIST NG HlGHwAY              1. .-                ,  :.
PO   W AE R  FILR ATE IB O N   C PL A N E N T            -,d .- t1                        T k W ~ \                                                                             :$N  .    P O O S D HI H A Y         t    .    .           ,  . .
- P      OOESUBSAICREOTONSBUDR TzOs BEV UP   ETGROADED                                                  PA.T                                     r                                       ,_  .
~ ROADSEAD SBRICGESI ECONMICPONEBONDAY~t V   :.
BRIDGES (PROJECT - RETROFITIANGR
-      ~ -  ROAD (POJC -                              /           |1D\ENING)                                                                                                                                                        NVLun
?-2    .    .  x ~~~~.J>, A.          =>       __'                                                                                                                    sY    - \ 
* ~         ~         NAA GAE  MAAZN                                                                                                                                        NjJ B: Sri  Economi   Zone               
WATER SUPPlY COMPONENT ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       KWk.       I                                                                                                               C
TRANSMISSION 2         3                                                                                      MAPI                                                          G        CenEraS
OWAER FILTRAIBUON PLMNO NE                                                                                                                                                        PRPADHGWY
PROPOSEAD BURICGESPCA ECOMONOMIC ZOEBuDAYS                                                                                                                                           ,-                                     o
PROVANC BPOUND - ARY    NING) 
0  GATENAVLSMGAZNE                                                                                                                                                                        -
~~~~~~~~MAP C: S6Cetl   euo
TRANSMISSION MAIN                                                                                                                               GROWTH CENTERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMEER
-  PRO   D HIGHWAYS ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ OCORI AY









IMAGING
Report No:      15956 PH
Type: SAR



