Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4111 PH
Loan Agreement
(Second Subic Bay Freeport Project)
Floating Rate Single Currency Loan
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
Dated July 18, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4111 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1997 between NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of the Philippines (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; (B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other 
obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
"Section 6.03 is modified to read: “Section 6.03.  
Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals 
Page  2
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan 
will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt 
or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or 
the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the 
Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or  (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, 
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“By-Laws” means the Borrower’s corporate by-laws as adopted by the 
Borrower’s Board of Directors pursuant to its Resolution No. 93-060, dated July 27, 
1993.
(b)
“Corporate Plan” means the Borrower’s plan for its overall corporate 
structure and its strategic role in the development of the SSEZ (as hereinafter 
defined), referred to in Section 7.01(a) of this Agreement,  as  such plan may be 
amended from time to time. 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year. 
(d)
“Freeport Status” means the Borrower’s legal status and related 
incentives regime establishing the Borrower as a separate customs territory for the 
free flow and movement of goods and capital within, into and out of the SSEZ, which 
status is legislated under the Guarantor’s laws and regulations pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 12 of the Guarantor’s Republic Act No. 7227.
(e)
“Investment Plan” means the Borrower’s investment program and related 
financing plan, to be prepared and adopted by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.07 of this Agreement. 
(f)
“PACP” and “PPAC” mean the Property Acquisition and Compensation Plan and 
the Principles for Property Acquisition and Compensation, each dated July 22, 1996, 
approved by the Borrower, which set out the policies and procedures governing land and 
other property acquisition and compensation in connection with the implementation of 
Parts B and C of the Project respectively and the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said policies and procedures. 
(g)
“Power Agreement” means  the agreement dated June 30, 1996 between the 
Borrower and Olongapo City with respect to the carrying out of Part C of the Project. 
(h)
“Project Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution 
of Part B or Part C of the Project, had or would have (a) his standard of living 
adversely affected; or (b) his right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises and agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c) his business, occupation, 
work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Project Affected 
Page  3
Persons” means all persons who qualify as a Project Affected Person.
(i)
“Road Maintenance Study” means the study to be carried out under Part 
D(4) of the Project. 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(k)
“Secured Area” means the lands occupied by the Subic Naval Base and its 
contiguous extensions as embraced, covered and defined by the 1947 Military Bases 
Agreement between the  Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America as 
amended, referred to in Section 12 of the Guarantor’s Republic Act 7227. 
(l) 
“SSEZ” means the Subic Special Economic Zone as such area is defined and 
its territory is delineated in Section 12 of the Guarantor’s Republic Act No. 7227, 
which area is subject to the administration and management of the Borrower under the 
Guarantor’s applicable laws and regulations.
(m)
“Subic Bay Freeport Laws” means, collectively, the following act, 
executive orders and implementing rules and regulations: the Guarantor’s Republic Act 
No. 7227 on Accelerating The Conversion of Military Reservations Into Other Productive 
Uses, Creating the Bases Conversion and Development Authority For This Purpose, 
Providing  Funds Therefor And For Other Purposes, dated July 22, 1991 (also known as 
the “Bases Conversion and Development Act of 1992”); the Guarantor’s Presidential 
Proclamation No.50 Proclaiming The Adoption And Implementation Of the Subic Conversion 
Program As A Priority National Program For Economic Development and Directing All 
Heads of Departments, Bureaus, Offices, Agencies and Instrumentalities of Government 
To Support The Program, dated September 18, 1992; the Guarantor’s Executive Order 
No.62 Prescribing Policies And Guidelines To Implement Republic Act No.7227, dated 
February 27, 1993; and the Borrower’s Rules and Regulations Implementing The 
Provisions Relative To the Subic Special Economic And Freeport Zone And the Subic Bay 
Metropolitan Authority Under Republic Act No.7227, as approved by the Borrower’s Board 
of Directors on November 3, 1992, and as published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette 
dated March 8, 1992. 
(n)
“Subic Water JV Agreement” means the agreement dated November 24, 1995 
between the Borrower, Olongapo City Water District, D.M. Consunji, Inc and Biwater 
International Limited for the establishment of a company intended to engage in the 
provision of water and sewerage services and in the establishment, operation and 
maintenance of water and sewerage facilities and systems in the SSEZ. 
(o)
“Subic Water” means the company to be established pursuant to the terms 
of the Subic Water JV Agreement. 
(p)
“Water Sales Contract” means the agreement for the sale of water to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Subic Water  pursuant to Section G (1) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million dollars ($60,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for 
this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
Page  4
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the 
initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, for other reference 
rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by 
the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate 
and the LIBOR Total Spread for Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
(i)
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency,  
(A) in a manner at all times consistent with the 
Environmental Management Plan and the Land Use Plan, (B) 
in conformity 
with sound administrative, commercial, 
economic, financial and 
engineering practices, and (C) 
in accordance with appropriate safety, 
health and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank; and 
(ii)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the 
continuing implementation of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, commercial, financial, economic and 
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall conduct its affairs so as to ensure that major 
corporate decisions, including, without limitation, with respect to its corporate 
structure, its management structure, each Investment Plan and plans specifying general 
civilian uses and related economic activities to be promoted in the SSEZ, are 
consistent with the Corporate Plan.
(b) The Borrower shall (i) not later than October 31, 1998, furnish  to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Corporate Plan, together with any 
proposed revisions thereto; and (ii) not later than June 30, 1999, exchange views with 
the Bank on such report.  
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative, commercial, economic financial and engineering practices. 
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Section 4.05. Except in the ordinary course of business, the Borrower shall not, 
Page  6
unless mutually agreed in advance between the Bank and the Borrower, sell, lease, 
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which are required for 
the efficient conduct of its operations or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall promptly take all measures necessary to 
acquire, maintain, renew and otherwise exercise all rights, powers, privileges and 
franchises required for the proper conduct of its operations and carrying out of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank, not later than March 
31 in each Fiscal Year, a proposed Investment  Plan of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank may reasonably request, to be carried out by the Borrower during the next 
five (5) following Fiscal Years; 
(b)
exchange views with the Guarantor and the Bank on the Investment Plan 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and 
(c)
thereafter take all measures required on its part (including, without 
limitation, adoption of the Investment Plan by its Board of Directors) to carry out 
promptly the investments proposed for the following Fiscal Year in such Investment 
Plan as shall have been agreed upon among the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE V 
Financial Covenants 
Section 5.01. ( a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records and accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) and the records  and accounts for 
the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such 
year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and financial statements as 
well 
as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
Page  7
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 5.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of the 
Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated 
debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower, 
including the debt to be incurred. 
Section 5.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,  the Borrower shall not 
incur any debt if, after the incidence of such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall 
be greater than 70 to 30. 
Section 5.04. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.2. 
(b)
Before June 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank and the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, 
the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
Section 5.05. For the purposes of Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.04 of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in the 
ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve (12) months, 
including accounts receivable,  marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year. 
(b)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of  taxes, and dividends. 
(c)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
(d)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its 
terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is originally incurred.  Debt 
shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered 
into.
(e)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: (A)
the sum of 
revenues from all sources related to operations and net non-operating income; and (B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on debt.
Page  8
(f)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: (A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and (B) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues 
in (A) above. 
(g)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on,  debt. 
(h)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the Borrower 
not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, 
which both the Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since 
such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating results of the 
Borrower. 
(i)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of  the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the times of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Guarantor, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for: (i) the disestablishment or dissolution of the Borrower; or (ii) 
the suspension of any of the Borrower’s operations, so as to affect materially and 
adversely the Borrower’s ability to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement or otherwise carry out the Project, or any part thereof.  
(b)
The Subic Bay Freeport Laws shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s 
Freeport Status or the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower, or the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
(c)
The Guarantor, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action, including (but without limitation) the enactment or issuance of 
legislation, orders or regulations, which may materially and adversely affect, 
prevent, or otherwise interfere with the Borrower’s ability to carry out the Project, 
or any part thereof, or the performance by the Borrower of any of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
(d)
The By-laws shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower, or the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: any event specified in Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following are specified as additional events within the 
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
The Borrower shall have adopted a corporate plan satisfactory to the Bank 
for its overall corporate structure and its strategic role in the development of the 
Page  9
SSEZ. 
(b)
The Subic Water JV Agreement shall have become effective in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the PACP and the PPAC have been duly approved 
by the Borrower and that all necessary corporate and governmental approvals and 
actions have been taken, as the case may be, to enable the PACP and the PPAC to be 
implemented in accordance with their terms. 
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Administrator of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
SBMA Center
Building No. 229
Waterfront Road
Subic Bay Freeport Zone
Republic of the Philippines
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                           By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
Page  10
SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
By /s/ Richard Gordon
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                  Amount of the
                 Loan Allocated
       % of
 
                 (Expressed in
   Expenditures
Category
             Dollars)
  to be Financed
(1)
Works for:
 (a) Part B              10,000,000       60%
     of the Project
        (b) Parts C and D
            of the Project      26,300,000       60%
(2)
Goods for:
 (a) Part B
            of the Project       2,900,000 )     100% of foreign
   )     expenditures,
(b) Parts C, D and
    E of the Project
   )     100% of local              
4,200,000 )     expenditures
                                           )     (ex-factory
                                    )      cost)
                                           )      and 70% of local
                                           )      expenditures for
                                           )      other items
                                           )      procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
       services and training
       (a) for Part B of the
           Project               3,100,000        100%
       (b) for Parts A, C 
           and D of the Project  8,100,000        100%
(4)
Unallocated               5,400,000
                                __________
TOTAL
            60,000,000
 
 2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a), (2) (a), 
Page  11
and (3)(a) until (i) the Borrower has obtained a water permit from the Guarantor’s 
National Water Resources Board in accordance with the requirements of Presidential 
Decree No. 1067 for the proposed extraction of water from the Pamatawan well field 
under Part B(1) of the Project; and (ii) the Borrower shall have entered into a “heads 
of agreement” with Subic Water satisfactory to the Bank establishing the principal 
terms and conditions for the water sales agreement to be entered into by said parties 
pursuant to Part G(1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods and works under contracts 
not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000; (b) services provided by consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) 
training; all  under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (a) strengthening its 
institutional capacity  to carry out its regulatory, administrative and management 
mandate with respect to the SSEZ, as set out under the Subic Bay Freeport Laws and (b) 
improving the provision of infrastructure services in the SSEZ required to support its 
economic growth.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Institutional Strengthening
(1)
Strengthening the regulatory, administrative and management capacity of the 
Borrower through the provision of expert services to assist the Borrower in:
(a)
developing strategic freeport policies, including with respect to 
freeport competitiveness, customs, taxation and investment incentives; 
(b)
planning and carrying out further commercialization and privatization 
activities; and
(c)
assessing its skills mix needs to carry out its regulatory, 
administrative and management functions and developing and carrying out appropriate 
staff training programs.
(2)
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity for environmental management, monitoring 
and regulation through: (a) providing expert services, training and miscellaneous 
equipment to the Borrower’s Ecology Centre for (i) the expansion of community outreach 
services and the implementation of resettlement and land acquisition and compensation 
programs; and (ii) the development of community-based forest management, community 
development and infrastructure improvements in Pastolan Village; and (b) preparing an 
indigenous people’s development plan to address the impact of economic growth in the 
SSEZ on indigenous  people living therein.
Part B:
Improving Water Supply
Improving the supply of treated water in the SSEZ  through:
(1)
detailed engineering and development of the Pamatawan well field, including the 
construction of approximately 20 wells;
(2)
constructing a raw water transmission main from the Pamatawan well field to a 
water treatment plant at Castillejos and a treated water transmission main from the 
treatment plant to a pool of storage reservoirs;
(3)
constructing an electrical power transmission line to the Pamatawan well field 
and to the Castillejos treatment plant;
Page  12
(4)
constructing a water treatment plant and a booster station;
(5)
installing ground water monitoring networks for monitoring the ground water 
table and water chemistry at the Pamatawan well field;
(6)
reforesting in the Pamatawan River basin to improve the aquifer recharging 
process; 
(7)
carrying out a hydrological study to identify water supply sources to meet the 
long term water supply needs of Hermosa and Morong; and
(8)
compensating Project Affected Persons.
Part C:  
Improving Power Distribution
Improving power distribution in the SSEZ by rationalizing and consolidating the 
power distribution networks in Olongapo City  through:
(1)
constructing overhead and  underground 69 kV sub-transmission circuits, together 
with the expansion of five existing, and the construction of one new, 69/13.8 kV 
substations, to effect the interconnection of the distribution systems of Olongapo 
City and the Borrower;
(2)
installing 13.8 kV cables to replace damaged cables and to enhance the 
environment of prime waterside locations in the Secured Area;
(3)
rehabilitating and extending 13.8 kV and LV systems, including replacement of 
the 4.1 kV system in Olongapo City; 
(4)
providing common facilities for an integrated power distribution network, 
including equipment, storage and maintenance facilities, an administrative office, 
meter test and repair facilities, office equipment, management information and billing 
systems and meter test equipment; and
(5)
compensating Project Affected Persons.
Part D:
Rehabilitating and Upgrading Roads, Bridges and Related 
Infrastructure
Improving road capacity and access, rehabilitating bridges, establishing a 
maintenance program and strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to supervise works to 
enable industrial and commercial development of the  Secured Area, through:
(1)
improving roads, including (a) widening  Rizal Highway, (b) widening  Argonaut 
Highway, (c) widening the link from Tipo Road to Binitican Bridge and  constructing a 
new SBMA expressway extension  and (d) improving  signalization and channelization of  
intersections in the Secured Area;
(2)
rehabilitating and retrofitting (including design, construction and construction 
supervision of works) the Kalalake, Malawaan, Boton and Binitican bridges;
(3)
carrying out a feasibility study  of, and designing, engineering and 
constructing,  a replacement bridge  for the Kalaklan bridge;
(4)
carrying out a road maintenance study and thereafter establishing a maintenance 
management system for roads and bridges and training the Borrower’s Public Works Group 
in its use and in the procurement and supervision of contractors carrying out 
recurrent and periodic maintenance; 
(5)
carrying out a  strategic land use study and a road alignment study for the SSEZ 
to improve traffic flow; and 
(6)
improving related infrastructure through (a) conducting detailed surveys of 
jurisdictional boundaries and installation of metes and bounds monuments, (b) 
constructing a security fence along part of the Secured Area boundary, carrying out 
aerial photography and mapping of the SSEZ and (c) establishing a geographical 
Page  13
information system.
******* 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
July 15, 2002
1,260,000 
January 15, 2003
1,300,000 
July 15, 2003
1,340,000 
January 15, 2004
1,380,000 
July 15, 2004
1,420,000 
January 15, 2005
1,460,000 
July 15, 2005
1,505,000 
January 15, 2006
1,550,000 
July 15, 2006
1,600,000 
January 15, 2007
1,645,000 
July 15, 2007
1,695,000 
January 15, 2008
1,745,000 
July 15, 2008
1,800,000 
January 15, 2009
1,850,000 
July 15, 2009
1,910,000 
January 15, 2010
1,965,000 
July 15, 2010
2,025,000 
January 15, 2011
2,085,000 
July 15, 2011
2,145,000 
January 15, 2012
2,210,000 
July 15, 2012
2,280,000 
January 15, 2013
2,345,000 
July 15, 2013
2,415,000 
January 15, 2014
2,490,000 
July 15, 2014
2,565,000 
January 15, 2015
2,640,000 
July 15, 2015
2,720,000 
January 15, 2016
2,800,000 
July 15, 2016
2,885,000 
January 15, 2017
2,970,000 
___________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
repaid 
except as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  14
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Prequalification Bidders for works/contracts under Parts B(2) and 
D(1)(a),(b) and (c), D(2) and D(3) of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Seedlings under Part B(6) of the Project, minor works for bridge rehabilitation 
under Part D(2) of the Project, the acquisition and installation of a security fence 
under Part D(6)(b) of the Project, and miscellaneous office equipment and computers 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works Works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitation to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
Page  15
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Management  
The Borrower shall maintain a project management structure, including the 
designation of experienced staff with appropriate delineation of responsibility, 
satisfactory to the Bank for the overall implementation of the Project. 
B. 
Project Monitoring and Reporting
The Borrower shall: 
(1)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with  the indicators set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 5, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(2)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank; (a) by October 31 each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the twelve month period 
preceding the date of such report; and (b) on or about October 31 1998, a mid-term 
report, integrating the date and other information contained in reports prepared 
pursuant to subparagraph (2) (a) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Project during the period preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(3)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
C.
Expert Assistance
The Borrower shall engage consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement: (a) to assist in the financial management 
and overall procurement requirements of the Project; (b) for the purposes of carrying 
out Part A of the Project; (c) to carry out the hydrological study under Part B (7) of 
the Project;  (d) to provide design and supervision support under Part D of the 
Project; (e) to carry out the bridge replacement  feasibility study, strategic land 
use study and the road alignment study under Parts D(3) and D(5) of the Project, 
respectively; (f) to provide (i) overall advice on road maintenance and scheduling of 
works and (ii) detailed engineering and construction supervision for civil works 
carried out under Part D of the Project; and (g) to provide (i) assistance for the 
monitoring and implementation of resettlement and property acquisition and 
Page  16
compensation plans of the Borrower and (ii) miscellaneous technical support for the 
Ecology Centre, under Part A (2) of the Project. 
D.
Studies
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out each of the hydrological study under Part B(7) 
of the Project, the bridge replacement feasibility study under Part D(3) of the 
Project, the strategic land use study and the road alignment study under Part D(5) of 
the Project, and the indigenous people’s development plan under Part A (2) of the 
Project in accordance with terms of reference and a time schedule satisfactory to the 
Bank, and shall furnish to the Bank for comment each said study, promptly upon its 
completion; and (b) (i) carry out, and furnish to the Bank for its review, the Road 
Maintenance Study by no later than December 31, 1997, (ii) review such study with the 
Bank by no later than March 31, 1998, and (iii) thereafter take appropriate actions to 
implement the recommendations of said study taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon and in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank. 
E.
Property Acquisition and Compensation
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all Project 
Affected Persons are compensated in accordance with the provisions of the PACP or the 
PPAC, as the case may be.  For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower 
shall,  prior to undertaking any compulsory acquisition of property under such Part, 
submit to the Bank for its approval a detailed property acquisition and compensation 
action plan relative to such acquisition, including resettlement if any,  and prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of the PPAC and thereafter implement such plan as 
approved by the Bank.  The Borrower shall further: (i) maintain operational procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on a regular basis, in accordance with 
the indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the PACP and PPAC; (ii) 
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than April 30 and October 31 in each Fiscal 
Year a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on such moni
toring and evaluation activities carried out together with any additional measures 
proposed to further the progress in the carrying out of the PACP and PPAC; and (iii) 
promptly thereafter effectuate all such measures, taking into account the comments and 
the views of the Bank thereon. 
F.
Permits
The Borrower shall obtain from the Guarantor’s National Water Resources Board a 
water permit in accordance with the requirements of Presidential Decree No.1067 for 
the proposed extraction of water from the Pamawatan well field under Part B(1) of the 
Project. 
G. Contractual 
Arrangements
The Borrower shall:
(1) enter into contractual arrangements, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank by no later than December 31, 1998, for the sale of treated water obtained under 
Part B of the Project, with Subic Water; and 
(2)  exercise its rights under the Power Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Power Agreement or any provision thereof.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  17
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$1,000,000 until the  aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed an amount equal 
to $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the  Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  18
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for Parts of the Project, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to Parts of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories for Parts of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the  
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
