Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3699-PA
REPORT AND RECONNNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEATIONAL BANK POE RECONSTRCTION    DT
TO THE
EXECUTIV  DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPLIJED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIALT TO
US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR TEIB
SECOND VOCATioNAL TRAINIMG PROJECT
December 13, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipents only in the performance of
their oDical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank 2uthorization.



CURRCI EQUJIVALENTS
US$1                      G 126 (Guarani)1/
G 100                    US$0.008
C 1000                   US$7.94
G 1,000,000     -        US$7,937
GLOSSARr OF ABBREITATIONS
BNP         - National Development Bank
CAR         -  Small Farmer Credit Agency
IB          - Imstitmto of Rural Welfare
IDB         - Inter-American Development Bank
K           - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederanfbau
PIff        - Project Implementation Unit
SEAG        - Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service
SNPP        - National Vocational Training Service
VEIGHTS AND NEASURES
1 meter (m)               =   1.09 yard
1 square meter (sq A)         108 sq ft
I kilometer (km)              0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq ki)    .39 square mile
I hectare (ha)                10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
GO EEENT OF PARAGUAY
Fiscal Tear
Januaay 1 - December 31
I/ The exchange rate applicable to this project as decided by the
Government of Paraguay is G160 to US$1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Paraguay.
*         Beneficiaries: National Vocational Training Service (SNPP), Small Farmer
Cr6dit Agency (CAX) and the Ministry of Education.
*         Loan Amount:   US$5.0 million including the front-end fee.
Loan Terms:    17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The ultimate objective of this pilot project is to increase
productivity, income and employment in three selected
agricultural frontier areas where rural development projects
are ongoing or being planned. The project would provide about
16,000 farmers and rural workers with basic and intermediate
skills courses in agricultural techniques and artisan
occupations over a six-year period. A fund would be
established to provide credit for equipment, tools and working
capital to graduates of the intermediate skills training
program. The project would strengthen SNPP's capacity to
conduct rural training and improve its ability to coordinate
and integrate its training program with rural activities being
implemented by other government agencies.
Benefits:      The proposed project would help meet the need for
basic and intermediate skills in the rural areas which at
present constitute one of the bottlenecks to higher production
and income levels in the agricultural frontier areas of
Paraguay.
Risks:         Since the proposed project is pilot in nature and experimental
in its approach, it faces the customary risks and
uncertainties of such projects. The implementation of
training courses may experience some delays since SNPP is
embarking on a new training program for which it has limited
experience. Course content, orientation and methodology may
have to be adjusted as SNPP gains experience. SNPP has to
work in coordination with other rural institutions whose
timely cooperation is an important factor for the success of
the project. A shortfall in SNPP's earmarked revenues may
cause counterpart fund problems. However, the Government
guarantees to assist SNPP in providing the required
reounterpart funds.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Costs: 1
Components                Local        Foreign       Total
--- (US$ '000 equivalent) --
Basic skills training       549            835       1,385
Intermediate skills
program                   692           1,208      1,900
Technical assistance
and studies               131            29'         427
Post Training Fund          195             585        780
Institutional Dev.          272            727         999
Baseline Costs       1,839          3,652       5,491
Contingencies:
Physical               184            367         550
Price                 774           1,019       1,793
Front-end fee                                12         12
Total               2,796           5,051       7,847
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign       Total
---US$ million equivalent)----
Bank loan                -            5.0           5.02/
SNPP                    2.0             -           2.0
Government              0.8             -           0.8
Total                   2.8           5.0           7.8
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY:       1984   1985   1986   1987  1988  1989  1990
------------     USS RlTions)--
Annual          0.8    0.6    1.0    0.5   0.4   0.9   0.7
Cumulative      0.8    1.4    2.4    2.9   3.4   4.3   5.0
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4609a-PA, November 18, 1983.
Map: IBRD 17186.
1/  Directly imported items are exempt from duties and taxes.  Taxes for
other items are not significant. The conversion from Guarani to US
do'.lar was made at an exchange rate of G160 per dollar, the exchange rate
for imports to be made by SNPP, a government agency, for this project.
2/  Includes front-end fee of US$12,469.



REPORT AND RECONKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR THE
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to assist in
financing a Second Vocational Training Project. The Loan, which includes a
front-end fee of US$12,469, would have a term of 17 years including four
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report (3569-PA, September 1981) was distributed te the
Executive Directors in February 1982. An economic mission visited Paraguay
in Nay 1983. Its report is in preparation. The following discussion is
based on the findings of this mission. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing, is the
mainstay of Paraguay's econoy. Between 1976 and 1981, these activities
directly accounted for about 30% of GDP and nearly 50% of employment;
directly and indirectly, they provided over 95% of merchandise export
earnings. Most of Paraguay's manufacturing industry consists of the
processing of agricultural materials, both for home consumption and for
export. Although no significant mineral resources have been found, the
country has ample land suitable for farming and livestock raising, as well as
large areas of forest land.
4.        During the 1960s, the real growth of agricultural output and of
total GDP was slow, averaging 1.8% and 4.3% per year, respectively. The
introduction of soybean cultivation in 1970 accelerated growth, and both
crop production and forestry exploitation expanded substantially. Livestock
production also increased, albeit at a slower pace. The joint construction
with Brazil of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the Parana river, which was
started in the mid-1970s, gave a strong new impulse to the econouy, in
combination with favorable world market conditions for cotton and soybeans,
Paraguay's main export crops. In response to these developments, Paraguay's
GDP grew at an average annual rate of 10% during 1975-1981.



- 2 -
countries with higher per capita incomes. Agricultural growth has raised the
real incomes of those living in rural areas, who make up about three-fifths
of the population. A significant share of cotton and soybean output, which
accounts for most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers, many of
whom have received land under government and privately sponsored colonization
programs. Despite some lags, rural wages have generally been rising in real
terms.
6.        The rapid growth of Paraguay's agricultural production has been
associated with a significant expansion of the area under cultivation
principally through colonization.  This process was carried out largely by
small farmers, who, particularly at the beginning, migrated from the
minifundia area around Asuncion. Settlement programs initially were
organized by the government but later became massive and largely spontaneous;
recently, expansion has been further stimulated--and to some extent
guided--by the construction of roads into new areas and the improvement of
the existing road network.
7.        This decade of sustained economic growth came to an abrupt halt
in 19B2. After decelerating towards the end of 1981, GDP fell by 2% in 1982,
and is expected to fall a further 5% in 1983. Value added in the
agricultural and industrial sectors declined by 3% and 5%, respectively, in
1982. Unemployment jumped from 3% to 12%, and underemployment began to
rise. The fiscal deficit widened; a deficit of 2.5 to 3.0% of GDP is
expected for 1983. Domestic capital formation dropped by 10%, without
accounting for the even larger drop in activity at Itaipu. The Central Bank
lost US$120 million (15%) of reserves in 1982, a further loss of US$170
million is foreseen in 1983.
B.        Several factors have contributed to the recession, most of them
exogenous. Beginning in mid-1981, the large devaluation of the Argentine
peso, and later of the Brazilian cruzeiro, reversed the direction of border
trade. Thus, Paraguay's exports to its neighbors and Argentinian tourism to
Paraguay ceased almost completely. Construction of Itaipu is in its final
stages, while the Yacyreta project, which is proceeding at a slower pace than
programmed, has failed to pick up the slack. Direct capital inflows from
both projects, and hence direct demand for Paraguayan goods and services,
fell from US$470 million in 1981 (8% of GDP) to US$345 million in 1982, and
are projected to fall to US$225 million (3% of a reduced GDP) in 1983.
9.        The world recession caused a large deterioration in Paraguay's
terms of trade. While the prices of the goods that Paraguay imports - i.e.
machinery and manufactured products - remained steady, the prices of its main
exports declined steeply. Between 1980 and 1982 the prices of cotton and
soybeans fell by 22% and 17%, respectively. By the end of 1982 their prices
in real terms were at their lowest level in almost a decade. The situation
in the agricultural sector has been aggravated by the recent flooding of
extensive agricultural areas, destroying crops and leaving thousands of
families homeless. These factors have had a strong negative effect on
investor economic activities and expectations.



10.       A significant endogenous factor contributing to the recession was
the progressive real appreciation of the Guarani, which reduced the demand
for Paraguay's exports and increased its demand for importa. The official
exchange rate of the Guarani vie a vis the U.S. dollar has been maintained at
the same level since 1962. A large spread between the official exchange rate
and the fluctuating free market rate developed after 1981. The Central Bank
has responded by successively establishing preferential rates for the main
export commodities, increasing the rate for most private imports and
introducing administrative requirements for surrendering foreign exchange to
importers. More recently, the Central Bank has curbed the availability of
foreign exchange to the private sector (which has, consequently, turned
increasingly to the parallel market for financing).  The adjustments in the
exchange rate have improved prospects for exports and reduced the demand for
imports. The ad hoc nature of the measures, however, has resulted in a
complex system of multiple exchange rates which is likely to distort resource
allocation without fully offsetting the appreciation of the Guarani.
Authorities at the Central Bank are considering rationalizing the system by
gradually moving towards a unified exchange rate.
11.       Until 1979, Paraguayan authorities pursued a cautious fiscal
policy, achieving successive current account surpluses with overall surpluses
in some years. During the period 1979-82, however, revenues grew at an
average annual rate in nominal terms of 16% while expenditures grew at 30%.
Although part of the increase in expenditures can be explained by the
Government's efforts to expand productive and social services, there was also
a marked increase in salaries and transfers to the private sector. The
stagnation in revenues, moreover, resulted not only from lower economic
activity during 1982 but also from an inadequate tax structure.
12.       In 1983, revenues are expected to fall by almost 10%, and, if
expenditures are maintained at their 1982 level, the deficit will surpass 3%
of GDP. Accordingly, the authorities have taken successive steps to curb
expenditures and to raise revenues. Expenditure cuts have fallen mainly on
non-contractual obligations (materials, travel) and on investments.  Selected
sale and stamp tax rates and taxes on oil subproducts have been adjusted.
Additional measures under consideration are a tax on the profits of selected
public enterprises and tax increases on motor vehicles, gambling, sales and
cattle slaughtering and improvements in tax administration. Congress is also
considering the introduction of a personal income tax.
13.       The fall in aggregate demand initially resulting in a slowing of
inflation, which fell, as measured by the consumer price index, from 22% in
1980 to 13% in 1981 and 7% in 1982. However, the inflationary effects of the
de facto devaluation and the fall of the Guarani in the parallel exchange
market are becoming manifest. By August of 1983, the CPI was rising at an
annual rate of 17%.



-4-
Economic Prospects
14.       The short-term outlook for the Paraguayan economy is not
encouraging. As a consequence of the recent floods, falling receipts from
the Binational Entities, private investor pessimism and a reduction in public
investment, GDP may fall by 5% in 1983. To a large extent excess capacity
and unemployment are localized in areas or industries linked directly or
indirectly to the construction of the dama, which makes relief through
compensating expenditures difficult.
15.       Nevertheless, in spite of the current difficulties and the
likelihood of slow short-term growth, Paraguay's economic prospects for the
medium term are reasonably favorable. Measures to restore equilibrium in the
fiscal and external areas have been taken, and additional measures are under
consider tion by the authorities. Reserves amount to about eight months'
worth of reported imports, and the total debt service ratio is estimated at
about 24% of reported exports, reflecting a highly favorable debt maturity
structure. (If unregistered exports were included, the debt service ratio
would be only about half as high).
16.       The country has enough urnutilized agricultural land to sustain for
many years the recent expansion of production, though greater attention will
need to be paid to increasing agricultural productivity. Less immediate, but
also of significance, are the revenues that will be forthcoming when Itaipu
starts producing electricity. The eventual entry of Yacyreta into full
construction will also be an important factor in reactivating the economy.
It is projected that GDP will resume growth in 1984 at a slow pace (2-3%),
accelerating gradually to about 4% by 1988. These rates are substantially
lower than those achieved in the past, reflecting the changed external
environment.
17.       Assuming the above-projected GDP growth rate and the adoption of an
adequate exchange rate policy, exports are conservatively projected to show a
gradual recovery from a 2% gr.owth rate during 1983 to some 4% in real terms
by 1986. Exports and imports attributable to the binationals are projected
according to the projects' construction schedules. The growth of domestic
imports is projected to fall to an average rate of 3% a year, as a result of
the lower GDP growth rate and maintenance of the current higher exchange rate
for imports.
18.       Under these conditions, Paraguay, including its share in the
ownership of the binationals, would require a total net capital inflow of
about US$5.4 billion over the 1983-86 period. Of this total, some US$4.0
billion would represent half of the planned expenditures for the Yacyreta and
Itaipu Hydroelectric Projects; some US$0.35 billion would come from long-ters



public loans already contracted; US$0.35 billion from direct investment and
private loans; and US$0.1 billion from the compensation payments related to
the dams. Paraguay would thus need additional net capital inflows totaling
about US$0.6 billion - or US$150 million per year, on the average - to cover
the gap. This additional borrowing is within the country's debt service
capacity, and Paraguay continues to be creditworthy for lending on
conventional terms in the orders of magnitude outlined above.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
19.       To date, Paraguay has received Bank and IDA credits (net of
cancellations) totalling US$467.3 million. Of this amount, US$417.5 million
has been lent through 25 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million has been provided by
eight IDA credits. As of September 30, 1983, Paraguay's indebtedness to the
Bank and IDA totalled US$438.6 million, including US$227.8 million of
undisbursed funds. As of December 31, 1981, the obligations held by the Bank
and IDA were equivalent to about 22% of Paraguay's external debt, with a
blend of about 15% IDA and 85% IBRD; this share is not expected to cbange
significantly. The service on this debt amounted to 16% of total debt
serince in 1981 or about 1.4% of exports of goods and non-factor services.
On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay to date has been 48%
for agriculture, 26% for transportation, 10% for industry, 9% for education,
5% for water supply and 2% for preinvestment studies in various sectors.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, as has the
loan/credit disbursement record, except for the last year or so, when
disbursements have been affected adversely by lack of counterpart funding.
20.       IFC has had four operations in Paraguay viz., a US$4.4 million loan
with US$1.0 million equity participation for a wood processing project
(FINAP) (1974); a US$1.2 million hotel operation in the city of Encarnacion
(1980); a US$5.0 million loan with US$2.0 million equity participation for an
agricultural project in southeastern Paraguay (1982); and a US$2.5 million
loaa with US$0.9 million equity participation for a hotel operation in
Asuncion (1982). The FINAP project experienced critical financial and
managerial problems, and efforts to restructure it did not succeed. IFC is
in the process of divesting itself of the assets involved. Veakened market
conditions have affected the performance of the hotel projects. Progress on
the agricultural project has been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summery
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
21.       Current and planned Bank Group lending to Paraguay is designed to
help the Government achieve three interdependent and complementary
objectives, which are: (a) to expand output and exports by direct and
indirect support for programs that raise production and employment; (b) to
improve the management of the economy, and particularly to strengthen public
institations and financial intermediaries; and (c) to distribute the benefits
of growth more widely, and especially to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. In addition to lending, economic and sector vork provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Paraguay on
development strategy and the macro-economic management of the country.



- 6 -
22.       Bank Group support for industrial, agricultural and livestock
development projects in Paraguay is aimed at increasing value added and
diversifying exports of agricultural products, at expanding marketing
outlets, particularly for small farmers and at increasing productivity.
Lending for education, rural development and rural water supply programs is
designed to help ease the country'a rural poverty problem and to improve the
living conditions in the rural areas. Loans for transport are designed to
help improve the road infrastructure and policies and institutions in the
sector, which provides vital support to productive activity in agriculture
and industry. Finally, pre-investment projects are aimed at supporting
programs to help overcome institutional constraints, in particular in the
areas of planning, economic management, and project preparation and
execution. Preparation work is underway for projects in dairy development,
rural development, transport and education.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND RURAL TRAINING
Agricultural Investments
23.       Agriculture contributes about 30% of GDP, nearly 50% of total
employment and over 95% of Paraguay's commodity exports. The sector supplies
most agricultural items needed for domestic consumption except for wheat,
dairy products and fruits. During the second half of the 1970s, output grew
at a cumulative annual average rate of about 7.6%; two-thirds of the sector
value-added was accounted for by crop production. Most of the increase in
crop production resulted from the expansion of cropped areas in the Eastern
region, in which the area covered by the principal crops (mainly cotton and
soybeans) trebled from about 500,000 ha. in 1972 to approximately 1.5 million
ha. in 1980. The large-scale immigration of capable and entrepreneurial
farmers from Brazil made an important technological contribution to the
process of expansion, which was also furthered by the migration of Paraguayan
farmers frou the country's central areas, characterized by eroded soils and
minifundia.
24.       Government investments have facilitated agricultural growth.
During the 1960O and 19708, these investments concentrated on providing roads
to open up frontier areas, promoting settlements on virgin land through the
Institute for Rural Welfare (IBR) and private colonization companies and
financing special programs such as farmer credit lines and rural development
projects. Government investments in infrastructure, largely in the rural
areas, represented almost half the public investment budget in 1976-81.
Budget allocations for the agricultural sector, including IB's budget of
about US$4 million, annually increased by 116% in real terms between 1977 and
1981. The total ongoing investment program in the agricultural sector
amounts to about US$430 million, including US$195 million for five rural
development projects in Eastern Paraguay.



- 7 -
25.       These investments have had some success.  Road improvements have
linked production areas with Asuncion providing farmers with access to
markets, easier competition among sellers of inputs and buyers of farm
products and lower prices because of reduced transportation costs. Likewise,
investments in rural development projects have led to the expansion of
extension services, availability of special credit lines and increased
research activities. However, these investments, with the exception of the
Paraguari Rural Development Project in central Paraguay, have not included
special farmer training programs other than limited instruction from the
extension agents.
26.       Another limitation concerns the settlement activities.  Since 1960
IBR has established some 550 new settlements or colonies comprising 6 million
ha. and 109,000 lots. IB is authorized to perform an array of tasks,
including land distribution, provision of titles, organization of production
credit, marketing and social services, and the promotion of cooperatives and
industrialization. However, its organizational deficiencies and the
magnitude of the colonization process have so far limited its functions to
distribution of public lands. As of 1981 IBE provided titles only to about
12% of the existing 109,000 lots, 54% were under adjudication; and 34% had no
legal claims at all. This lack of land titles has constrained the settlers'
access to institutional credit.
Rural Training Deficiencies
27.       While agricultural investments have generally increased production,
further expansion, especially with respect to farmers productivity and
incomes, is constrained by lack of skills. For instance, in Eastern
Paraguay, some 65% of the farmers have low productivity and income. Income
data for 1981 from the Eje Norte area of Eastern Paraguay showed that net
income per capita, including family consumption, was about US$130 per farms
of less than 15 ha. (about one-third of the farms) and about US$270 for farms
between 15 and 30 ha. (about two-thirds of the farms). Income data for other
areas showed similar results. In 1977 a USAID study estimated that 54% of
rural families had incomes below the poverty line (i.e. less than US$300 per
capita per year). These families have small farms, speak mostly Guarani and
have no access to institutional credit because they do not possess land
titles.
28.       Most of these farmers are poorly educated; the average level of
schooling for the adult rural population in Paraguay is 2.7 years of primary
school. In 1977, 22% of the adult population had not had any education, and
up to 86% of those who attended school had not completed the primary level.
Only about 9% had completed primary school and only 5% had received some
secondary schooling. Training takes place on-tbe-job, with low levels of
education limiting the ability of farm families to acquire new knowledge and
skills. Most of these farmers use rudimentary technology lacking knowledge
and capital to purchase modern implements. In Eje Norte, for instance,
80%-90% of the farmers clear forests and prepare the soil manually which
limits the potential crop area cleared to less than one ha. and the actual
cultivated area to about 5-6 ha. per family per season. These farmers need
to learn better techniques of land clearing rotation, soil preparation, and
seeding. Experience shows that adequate skills and technology (as well as



complementary credit) will result in much improved agricultural output.
While the national average yield for soyboan. is 1.5 tona/ha., Brazilian
immigrants in Eastern Paraguay with higher lovels of skills as well as acceos
to credit and technical assistance harveat 3.2 tons/ha. Similarly, cotton
yields average 870-1,500 kg./ha. in the Chore area, but farmers receiving
credit and intensive technical assistance from foreign experts harvest up to
2,800 kg./ha.
Training Demand
29.       In the absence of statistics on the national demand for rural
training in basic and intermediate skills, the demand for selected frontier
areas, viz., Eje Norte, Alto Parana, Canendiyu and Itapua was estimated based
on the composition of the labor force, the present level of skills and the
level of skills required in the future. According to these estimates, about
30,000 farmers with farms of less than 10 ha. would need basic skills
training and about 7,000 farmers who have land titles would need intermediate
skills training (Table 1). Also, about 30% (or about 7,600) of the
economically active population engaged in non-agriculture sectors are
targeted to need intermediate skills training to operate effectively their
trade.
Training Supply
30.       At present few rural training programs exist at either the basic or
intermediate level. The National Vocational Training Service (SNPP) is the
only institution active in basic training which offers two small programs.
At the intermediate level, the Ministries of Education and Agriculture and
SNPP offer urban-based courses for those employed in the formal sector.
There is practically no intermediate skills training program for small
farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The technical assistance provided by the
Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service (SEAG) does not have sufficient
depth to be considered intermediate skills training.
31.       The National Vocational Training Service (SNPP).  This agency which
was created in 1971, has semi-autonomous status under the Ministry of Labor
and Justice but no legal personality. Its Board of Directors include
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture and W4ucation and the
National Planning Secretariat. SNPP derives its fundi. . from an earmarked 1%
payroll tax levied on the manufacturing and service sectors. SNPP's training
activities initially addressed vocational and technical skills requirements
in the modern sectors, particularly manufacturing but expanded in 1976 to
begin a modest rural basic skills training program. SNPP also started a
two-year training course for rural youth in its Chore center. SNPP's
activities likewise include managerial training and assistance to business
enterprises in managerial and related training matters. In 1981, SNPP
trained 3,760 workers in 260 courses, including 1,850 rural dwellers. Rural



-9-
Table 1
TARGET POPULATION FOR TRAINING BY SEX
AND TRAINING LEVEL FOR SELECTED FRONTIER ABEAS a/
Target Population   b/
Male   Female   Total
Basic Skills '/         19,400  10,600  30,000 d/
Intermediate Skills e/
Farm                   4,500   2,500   7,000 f/
Non-Farm               4,400   3,200   7,600 g/
a/ Project area of Eje Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 2141-PA),
Departments of Alto Parana and Canendiyu and the North of the Itapua
Departmen.
b/  Economically active population engaged in agriculture and non-agriculture
sectors between 14-49 years old.
cl Basic skills trainimng is defined as 40-50 hour courses on simple
production and home improvement techniques such as appropriate r,ed
selection and storage, fertilizer selection, animal sterilization,
weaning and disease control, selection of crops for marketing and home
use, basic record-keeping on operations, etc.
d/  Farmers between 14-49 years old with farms of less than 10 ha.
_j Intermediate skills training is defined as 150-280 hour courses on
improved production techanology covering the entire cycle of crop and
livestock production, as well as provision of rural goods and services
such as rural carpentry, brickmaking electrical installations and
repairs, plumbing, etc.
f/  Farmers between 14-49 years old with land titles.
g/ About 30% of economically active populatijn engaged in non-agriculture
sectors between 14-49 years old.
Source: Bank estimates



- 10 -
training was condueted mostly through mobile units for those formally
employed in the agricultural sector, i.e. foremen and tractor drivers at
large farms, and operators in dairy cooperatives.
32.       Basic Ski}s Training Program.  SNPP's basic skills training
program for communities operaltes in the Paraguari Rural Development Project
(financed by the Inter-American Development Bank) in Central Paraguay, where
it reached about 1,500 participants in 1982. Project instructors teach
40-hour modules in agriculture, livestock, home improvements, and
recordkeeping. These courses are taught during the evenings. SNPP has
developed a methodology whereby teams of four instructors define, with the
assistance of community leaders, the specific content of courses. The
content of each module reflects the problems currently experienced by farm
families in that community, geared to local climate and ecological
conditions. Eramples of these problems are: seed selection and storage;
fortilizer selection, alternatives and use; increasing animal production by
timely sterilization and weaning, disease control, etc.; selection of crops
for marketing and home use, including nutritional considerations. After the
definition of content, instructors develop or adapt instructional materials
as needed and teach all four modiles. These instructors then train local
leaders who, under their supervision, use the modules to train others. The
courses are weak in marketing concepts and do not include findings of
appropriate technology research which could easily be applied by rural
families. Also, a shortage of audio-visual and printing equipment in SNPP's
headquarters deters the development of instructional materials. SNPP's rural
youth course (60 graduates per year) consists of 10 months of training in the
Chore center, followed by one year's instructor guidance of individual
projects.
33.       Intermediate Skills Training Program. SEAG's extension service
attempts to provide farmers with intermediate level skills training and
technical assistance. The service reaches only about 20% of the farmers in
Eastern Paraguay (45,000-50,000 farmers), requiring each agent to handle
about 144 farmers. Extension agents seldom are able to spend more than
15 hours/year/farmer. This includes meetings, drawing up farm plans to
assist obtaining credit, farm visits to supervise the use of credit and
demonstration o3. farm methods. This technical assistance, hovever,
is inadequate for systematic training and imparting of in-depth knowledge and
skills for the recommended technological packages. Furthe-rore, most
extension agents have only secondary agricultural education, lack practical
experience, have additional credit supervision duties and lack transportation
to reach remote ar-as. They seldom receive research results on economically
viable technology in ways that can be effectively communicated directly to
farmers.
Rural Credit
34.       Experience showed that the availability of credit increases the
positive results from training because the trainees can gain access to
implements or other inputs that enable them to apply the skills that they
learned. At present, agricultural credit in Paraguay is mostly available



- 11 -
from the National Development Bank (BNF) which, in 1981, lent about US$99
million, 55% of which went to bmall farmers (less than 50 ha). For the
period 1983-86, BNF has about US$80 million available credit earmarked for
small farmers financed through existing and proposed credit lines from the
Bank, the IDB and KFW. Only farmers with land titles, however, are eligible
for BNF's agricultural credit lines. BNF also has a credit line to rural
industries, most of whose beneficiaries are small and medium-scale in size.
Individual rural entrepreneurs, often without clear titles to the premises
they occupy, do not qualify for this or other credit lines for small
enterprises.
35.       The Small Farmer Credit Agency (CAH), a Government-owned autonomous
financial institution lends mainly short-term production credit to
small-scale farmers who have no land titles or other collateral.  CAR lent
about US$2.3 million for this purpose to 4,559 borrowers in 1982. CAH also
provides credit to all rural workers, including rural non-farm
entrepreneurs. Its total small-entrepreneur credit line was about US$40,000
in 1981 benefitting 61 artisans. In recent years, CAH had a loan recovery
rate of over 85%. Its administrative costs are high because it provides very
small loans, averaging only about $365 per farmer in 1979.
Bank Role in Sector
36.       The Bank has supported vocational training in Paraguay since 1976.
The First Vocational Training Project,1/ assisted the Government to expand
vocational training mostly for the modern formal sector. The project
provided SIPP with: (a) the training capacity of about 1,000 student places
in four new training centers; (b) two mobile training workshops and related
equipment for train-ng about 1,500 students annually; (c) the expansion of
its headquarters and two training centers in Asuncion (545 student-places);
and gd) technical assistance to strengthen its management and advisory
service to enterprises. The Project Performance Audit Report (April 1, 1983)
indicated that, while the project had successfully expanded training
opportunities, certain bottlenecks were encountered, i.e., (a) the physical
facilities built were underutilized; (b) the two mobile training workshops
suffered from design limitations; (c) the project did not include sufficient
technical assistance for the improvement of SNPP's administration, planning
and design of training modules, which could have minimized some
implementation problems; and (d) delays in the recruitment and staffing of
the project unit impaired the project's effectiveness and weakened the
institution building effect. The experience gained has been taken into
account in designing the proposed project.
37.       The Bank Group has also helped finance four rural development
projects since 1975, all in the Eastern Frontier areas2/. None of these
projects, however, included skill training programs. Bank support for
agricultural and rural development is expected to continue with a proposed
rural development project in the Departments of Itapua and Alto Parana Sur,
also on the Eastern Frontier.
1/ Loan 1252-T-PA for US$4.0 million was approved on May 4, 1976, and closed
on April 27, 1981.
2/ Second Rural Development Project (Ln. 1418-PA) in Itapua; Livestock and
Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 1674-PA) in Eje Este; Caazapa Area
Development Project (Ln. 2087-PA); and Eje Norte Rural Development
Project (Ln. 2141-PA).



- 12 -
38.       The Government, which in the past has neither given much attention
to rural vocational training nor has received substantial outside assistance
in this area, has now requested the Bank to assist in the training of farmers
and workers in the agricultural frontiers. This assistance seeks to expand
and improve rural training opportunities and also: (a) further the
advancement of Paraguay's priority economic sector--agriculture;
(b) address structural and institutional rural training issues, particularly
in relation to the training of self-employed workers in the agricultural
frontiers; and (c) introduce new technological training packages and the
necessary inputs to ensure that objectives are accomplished. The proposed
Bank involvement would, in line with the Bank's assistance strategy in
Paraguay, promote rural development and address a critical void in the
Government's program to alleviate poverty. The Bank's participation may also
stimulate international or bilaterial agencies to assist in replicating the
experience of the proposed project in other parts of the country.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government and SNPP,
assisted by the Bank. A Bank mission appraised the project in February 1983.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Vocational Training
Project" (No. 4609a-PA) is being circulated separately. A Loan and Project
Summary is attached to this report. Negotiations with the Borrower took
place in Washington on November 16-18, 1983. The Paraguayan delegation was
headed by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, Central Bank President. A Supplemental
Project Data Sheet is included as Annex III.
Objectives and Description
40.       The proposed project would assist the government, over a period of
six years, to improve the productivity and earning capacity of farmers and
entrepreneurs in selected rural areas by:
(a) expanding and improving a basic skills training program for rural
fami les;
(b)  establishing an integrated rural training package, which would
combine intermediate skills training with technical assistance and
access to credit for small-scale farmers and non-farm
entrepreneurs; and
(c) strengthening SNPP's institutional capacity to provide rural
training and to coordinate this training with other rural agencies.
41.       The proposed project would take place in three regions in the
Departments of San Pedro, Canendiyu, Alto Parana and Itapua, agricultural
frontier areas where the Government has provided investments for credit,
extension services and rural development projects. Area settlers have
resided in these areas for at least five years, have low productivity and
have not so far experienced substantial income gains. There are two SNPP



- 13 -
regional centers at Chore and Hernandarias which serve as training bases for
the settlements in those regions. Innovative features of the project are the
link with the provision of credit, and the supervision of the use of the
training skills and credit after the intermediate level courses. The project
would follow national development priorities and complement actions of other
government agencies in the project areas which aim at increasing yields and
better land utilization.
Expansion of Basic Skills Training Program
42.       Considering manpower and financial constraints as well as the
aborptive capacity for training, SNPP would carry out a basic skills program
to train about 13,800 rural workers or about 45% of the target group (Table
1) in 330 courses. The fifty-hour courses would concentrate on crops,
production, small livestock production, farm record keeping and home
improvements, with coverage of marketing. The course methodology would
essentially be similar to the one currently being used by SNPP; i.e.,
defining the specific content of the courses with the assistance of community
leaders and adaptation of instruction materials to local needs. At least two
members per family would be invited to participate. To carry out this
program, the project would finance 92 instructor staff-years, for which SNPP
would recruit twelve new instructors. Difficulties in recruitment are not
anticipated because SNPP's salaries are competitive. All instructors would
be taught training methods and production techniques, as well as the special
environmental and climatic conditions of the regions. The project would also
finance five four-wheel-drive vehicles for the five instructor-teams, five
pick-up trucks to carry implements and two motorcycles for supervisors,
tools, instructional materials, supplementary audiovisual and printing units
and six staff-years of professional services for the improvement of teaching
materials. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that both the basic
and intermediate skills training courses would be in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Integrated Training Program for Small-Scale Farmers and Non-Farm
Entrepreneurs
43.       SNPP would establish an integrated training program which would
include (a) intermediate skill training to allow for an effective use of
modern agricultural technology, (b) post-training technical assistance to
facilitate the application of newly acquired or upgraded skills, and
(c) access to credit through existing credit lines and a newly-created post-
training fund to finance working capital and equipment necessary to implement
production plans. SNPP would train about 2,600 small-scale farmers, rural
entrepeneurs and selected out-of-school youth, or about 20% of the target
group for intermediate skills training (Table 1), in comprehensive farm
production techniques and in the provision of such rural services as
extraction and utilization of timber, use of power saws and their
maintenance, specialized rural construction, transportation and marketing.
All participants would have to be permanent residents in the area, have basic
literacy and numeracy skills, and be at least eighteen years old. Also,
participants in the agriculture and livestock courses would have to have



- 14 -
experience in agricultural production and access to land. For the
entrepreneurial courses, participants have to be working in the same trade of
the course selected and have the basic equipment necessary to develop
productive projects and to meet existing credit conditions. The
out-of-school youths would be selected on the basis of their relative
aptitudes for specific trades, plus the sponsorship of a settlement or a
worker that is already in the trade.
44.       Farm Intermediate Skills Training.  The proposed project would
provide intermediate skills training to about 1,800 farmers or 25% of the
estimated 7,000 target population (Table 1) in comprehensive agriculture and
livestock production techniques. About one-fourth to one-half of the
participants would be female.  SNPP would give 90 courses, lasting from 154
to 240 hours each. These courses would be selected primarily on the basis
of: (a) the cash crops or livestock grown in the region, and (b) the
availability of markets for the products. About 45% of the courses would
cover cash and food crops (cotton, tobacco, soybeans, corn, beans); 35% would
cover livestock; and about 20% would be determined during the life of the
project (e.g., pineapple and peanuts). Training would systematically cover
all aspects of the crop cycle (from soil preparation to harvesting) or of
animal husbandry management (e.g., feeding, reproduction, marketing, etc.).
Crop courses would be given in short segments (from a day to a week) during
the agricultural cycle by instructors in the farming settlements. Courses in
livestock, lasting from five to seven weeks each, would be given in the two
SNPP training centers on a full-time basis, generally during the off-season.
45.       Non-Farm Intermediate Skills Training.  SNPP would also provide
non-farm training programs to about 400 rural entrepreneurs and 400
out-of-school youths or 10% of the estimated 7,600 target population (Table
1) in the production of rural goods and services (e.g., rural carpentry,
brickmaking, electrical installations and repairs, mechanical installations
and repairs, plumbing, mechanical forest clearing). Entrepreneurs would
receive upgrading courses, while out-of-school youth would receive training
in all aspects of the trade. The program would comprise 40 courses ranging
from 180 to 280 hours each over a five to seven week period. The criteria
for course selection are: (a) the frequency of demand for the particular
services; (b) the profitability of the trade; (c) the availability of
financial resources; and (d) the possibility of creating small associations
for the production of goods and services.  These courses would be given on a
full-time basis in the Chore and Hernandarias centers.
46.       Literacy Program.  The project would finance literacy courses for
participants who are functionally illiterate in order that they may be able
to enter the intermediate skills training program. SNPP would identify these
participants and arrange with the Ministry of Education to give three-month
evening courses in the settlements.  A letter of understanding between SNPP
and the Ministry of Education on this matter was presented to the Bank before
negotiations.
47.       Staff and Support Facilities.  The project would finance 65 staff-
years of instructors, and 26 staff-years of professional services for
'echnIcal support and supervision of instructors and the improvement of
instructional materials. All materials would be adapted to the level of



- 15 -
basic literacy and numeracy (about 3-4 years of education). Written
materials would be kept to a minimum, so that instructors can teach mostly in
Guarani, using materials and visual aide with Spanish texts. The project
would provide resident participants with board and room and a small stipend
(US$6-7 per week) to compensate for forgone income. The proposed loan would
also finance the expansion of boarding facilities to accomodate 80-140
participants in Chore and 60 participants in Hernandarias.
48.       The project would also provide supplementary equipment and spare
parts for the existing workshops in the Hernandarias and Chore centers, as
well as materials for practical instruction in the workshop and field
demonstrations in the agricultural courses. In addition, the proposed loan
would finance two small buses for transportation of farmers to agricultural
demonstration plots, five motorcycles to be used by instructors in giving
crop courses in the field and providing post-training technical assistance to
participants.
Post-Training Technical Assistance
49.       In order to utilize the intermediate skills learned, participants
would develop individual or group production plans. SNPP's instructers would
guide participants, using cost-effective production and farm plans and
teaching materials developed by specialists. The plans would form the basis
for determining capital needs and developing individual or group funding
proposals. SNPP's instructors would later provide technical assistance to
participants for the proper implementation of their projects. Courses would
also provide information about available credit programs and guidance in
making formal applications. Instructor schedules have been established so
that sufficient time would be available for this follow up (an average of 48
hours per trainee, up to a total of 20 staff-years for the life of the
project).
Access to Credit
50.       Existing Credit Lines.  Existing credit lines would be used by
participants meeting the conditions established by these programs. It is
expected that some 900 graduates of the intermediate skill training program
would use existing credit lines mostly for crops. SNPP has reached an
agreement with BNF and CAH that course graduates who meet lending
requirements would receive prompt attention and priority consideration from
both institutions; i.e., SNPP training would be considered an important
criterion for farmers' eligibility under existing credit lines. Letters of
Understanding on this matter wer'e presented to the Bank.
51-       Post-Training Fund.  A Post-Training Fund of about US$780,000 would
provide credit to course participants who: (a) are engaged in activities for
which credit programs do not yet exist (e.g., non-standard cash crops such as
pineapple, bananas and peanuts, etc.; non-farm trades and services);
(b) require partial financing in amounts that are too small to be handled by
regular credit institutions (e.g., US$300 to US$600); and/or (c) need
temporary credit to complete eligibility requirements for regular credit
lines, e.g., down payment to gain access to the land title (Section 3.01(b)



- 16 -
and Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). It is estimated that about 500
graduates of the intermediate skill training program would avail themselves
of credit from this Fund. These trainees would be required to present
production plans acceptable to a credit committee composed of SNPP and CAH
representatives and to be recommended by local leaders. Since the Fund is
intended to be revolving, additional graduates may be able to avail
themselves of this facility when the first set of borrowers start to repay.
52.       CAH would administer the Post-training Fund under contract with
SNPP. It would operate from its existing offices in the Chore area, and
would open an office in the SNPP training center in Hernandarias. Depending
on the demand, it would establish other offices in Canendiyu and Alto
Parana. A satisfactory drsift agreement between SNPP and CAX on the
arrangements and procedures for administering the Fund was submitted to the
Bank. The signing of this agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the
loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Credit from the Fund for an individual or group of individuals
would be used for purchase of inputs (fertilizer, pesticides, seeds, etc.)
and working capital. The maximum amount any individual would be able to
obtain would be US$4,000. The maximum for any group would be equal to the
minimum obtainable from established credit lines. Credit would be provided
at the standard annual rate of 12% interest plus a 6% commission for CAR.
The repayment period would be one year for inputs and hired labor and three
to five years for investments in land improvements, equipment, tools and
other farm development expenditures (Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 5 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
54.       Credit would be provided in kind whenever possible.  SNPP would
cempile annual lists of equipment, tools and other inputs likely to be
required for productive projects. It would then procure these items
wholesale and pass them on to CAH for distribution through its regional
network. The items would be provided at cost. In case of a substantial
price difference with local market values, the Fund would price articles at
85% of this local market value to avoid price distortions and the surplus
generated would be accrued to the Fund. In order to gauge the effectiveness
of the Fund which is estimated to start implementation in 1985, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would review the Fund's
performance and prepare a report for discussion with the Bank by July 1, 1987
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The review would provide the
basis for the formulation of an action program as appropriate.
SNPP Institution-Building
55.       The project would strengthen SNPP's managerial, financial and
technical capacity to provide training to rural workers and to improve
coordination with other rural agencies. For this purpose, the project would
finance an extensive training program for SNPP personnel, studies,
professional services, staff salaries, and complementary equipment to
reinforce the Planning Department and other technical units of SNPP. The
project would finance 41 training courses (about 16 staff years) for SIPP's
managers, regional directors, technical staff, supervisors, instructors and
administrati7e and financial staff. Courses would be given by international
experts in management techniques, training methodology, and technical



- 17 -
subjects. In addition, the project would finance 36 staff-months of
fellowships for SNPP's managers, regional directors, supervisors and
instructors for study trips to other training institutions with comparable
programs in Costa Rica, Colombia and Brazil.
56.       Studies.  The project would finance studies on SNPP organization,
financial aspects of rural training activities, course evaluation and several
technical subjects, as well as project completion. Twelve staff-months of
specialist services would be provided to help SNPP identify ways of improving
its organization and budget procedures in order to carry out rural basic
training programs on a large scale and continuing basis. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would send and exchange
views with the Bank on the findings and recommendations for follow-up of the
study on SNPP's organizational structure and budget procedures not later than
December 31, 1985 (Section 3.06(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       SNPP would also carry out a study to identify long-term funding
sources to finance its rural training activities. Although SNPP has legal
responsibility for providing training for all the sectors, its main source of
funds is from the private industrial sector.  This effectively limits SNPP's
allocations to rural training. Hence, the project would finance six
staff-months of technical assistance to estimate financial requirements of
rural training activities, analyze potential alternative sources of funds and
present recommendations to SNPP's Board of Directors. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would send this study to the
Bank for review and discussions not later than December 1, 1987 (Section
3.06(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). This target date considers the
need to review the experience of the Post-Training Fund (para. 54). In
addition, the project would finance 17 studies on rural occupations and
training requirements, course evaluation, credit and marketing, technical
subjects and project completion.
58.       Technical Assistance and Equipment.  The project would finance a
total of 72 staff-months of international expert services for assistance on
curriculum development, planning and coordination, organizational and
financial studies, evaluation, credit and marketing. Under an agreement with
SNPP, the Government of Spain plans to finance additional twenty-four
staff-months of assistance in the fields of training, curriculum development,
training methodology in rural areas and preparation of educational
materials. These activities would be coordinated so as to eliminate
duplication of efforts in course design and speed up course development. In
addition, the Government would explore the possibility of having UNDP or
other bilateral donors finance part of the technical assistance costs. The
project would also finAnce appropriate equipment (microcomputers) for SNPP's
Planning and Financial Departments to maintain and process information, as
well as one 4WD vehicle for the Project Unit.
59.       The project would finance 14.5 staff-years of SNPP staff
counterparts to international experts, who would at the same time coordinate
the aforementioned studies. Specifically, two staff members would work
full-time on coordinating activities with other rural agencies e.g., for



- 18 -
credit and marketing and assisting course participants to elaborate their
project plans. The project would also finance 15 staff-years of supervisors
for the basic skills training program and technical staff for development of
curricula and educational materials.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       Total project cost is estimated at US$7.8 million equivalent.  The
Bank loan of US$5.0 million would finance the full foreign exchange component
or 64% of total cost. SNPP would provide US$2.0 million from its earmarked
1% payroll tax for revenues while the remaining US$0.8 million would come
from the central government's budget. A significant level of Bank financing
is considered justified because of: (a) the current economic difficulties
which limit the availability of local resources for project financing; and
(b) the pilot nature and experimental approach of the project. The proposed
financing shares is in line with that of previous Bank-supported education
projects.
61.       The foreign exchange component was estimated using the following
percentages: (a) staff and local consultants 40%; (b) civil works, 40%;
(c) Post-Training Fund, 80%; (d) spare parts and locally procured materials,
80%; and (e) equipment, internationally procured materials, vehicles,
technical assistance and fellowships, 95%. Technical assistance costs for
international experts are based upon an average cost of US$7,000 per staff
month. These costs include salary, expenses, fees, subsistence, and
international travel. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% for all
expenditure categories. Price contengencies for foreign costs (technical
assistance and educational equipment) were estimated at 7 and 8% for 1983,
respectively; 8-9% for 1984, 7-9% for 1985, 7-8% for 1986 and 6-7% for
1987-89. For local costs, price contingencies were estimated at 17% for
1983, 14% for 1984, 10% for 1985-86 and 8% for 1987-89. Cost estimates were
based on February 1983 prices.
Project Administration and Implementation
62.       SNPP's Director-General would represent the Government in
performing all actions necessary to carry out this project (Section 3.10 of
the draft Loan Agreement). A separate project implementation unit, to manage
project activities, would be established. A Project Unit Director would be
appointed to oversee project implementation and coordinate the unit's
activities with the various SNPP regional directorates and other institutions
involved in project implementation (Section 3.11(a), (b) and (c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Project Director would be assisted by a project
coordinator, a procurement specialist, an administrator/accountant and an
administrative secretary.  The designation of SNPP's Director-General to
represent the Government in carrying out the project, the creation of the
project implementation unit, and the appointment of its Director are
conditions of Loan effectiveness (Sections 6.01(c), (d) and (e) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement
63.       Contracts for furniture, equipment, implements and other materials
exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB, in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Contracts below US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB) in accordance with Government



- '9 -
procurement practices acceptable to the Bank. In addition, miscellaneous
items that cannot be grouped in packages exceeding US$20,000 would be
procured through local purchasing on the basis of three price quotations.
Local purchases would not in aggregate exceed US$800,000. Prior Bank review
would be required for contracts exceeding US$100,000, which is expected to
apply to 65% of equipment procurement. Other contracts would be subject to
spot check by the Bank after contract award. Civil works would be awarded
through LCB.  Bid packages for civil works are expected to be small because
the total amount of construction would cost only about US$210,000. Foreign
contractors are not expected to bid, although they would not be precluded
from doing so. Contracts for technical assistance and professional services
would be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
64.      Special Account.  A special account would be established in the
Central Bank to accelerate reimbursement for expenditures incurred. The
initial deposit would amount to US$0.3 million equivalent which is based on
estimated initial disbursement requirements of about three months.   The
special account would be audited each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The establishment of the special account is a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
65.      Retroactive financing up to US$250,000 would be made available for
expenditures related to preparation of training materials, hiring and
training of additional instructors, hiring of key project personnel and
improving the design of project monitoring and impact evaluation incurred
after February 24, 1983.
66.      The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed as
follows: (a) 100% of expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of
internationally procured goods, 70% of locally procured equipment, materials
and spare parts for up to US$545,000; (c) 40% of expenditures for staff and
local consultants; (d) 100% of internationally-procured and 80% of locally
purchased goods for the Post-training Fund; and (e) 85% for technical
assistance, studies fellowships and project administration. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would ensure the
availability under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, of foreign
exchange needed for the acquisition of goods and services for the project
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government provided a
supplemental letter setting forth G160 per US dollar as the exchange rate
applicable to this project.
Benefits
67.       As a result of the project, about 16,000 persons (of which about
half are women) would be trained in skills that should lead to higher
production and better living standards. The training program which would
leave behind trained local leaders would have a multiplier effect reaching a
substantial number of the rest of the local population. As a result, the



- 20 -
earning capacity and living standards of this population are expected to
improve.  In addition, as a result of the provisions under the project of
combined training and credit to rural entrepreneurs, the rural areas would
generate services which at present are available only in urban areas.
Finally, SNPP would acquire the institutional capaoity to develop rural
training programs to meet the needs of the rural population and thus enable
it to oontribute more effectively in future rural development programs. The
existing infrastructure of SNPP would be utilized more efficiently, thereby
increasing returns to earlier government investments.
Risks
68.       SNPP is embarking on a new type of training program in which it
has limited experience. Course content, orientation, and methodology may
have to be adjusted as SNPP gains experience. But above all, success
does not solely depend on SNPP's own actions, as it must coordinate with many
other rural organizations. In addition, beneficiaries' financial benefits
would depend, among others, on weather conditions, market availability and
price fluctuations, uncertainties which cannot be minimized within the
project. However, SNPP would attempt to conduct local surveys about market
conditions when the product does not have a well established market. Current
and anticipated difficult economic situation may lead to a shortfall in
SNPP's revenues which may cause counterpart fund problems. However, the
Government which is presently considering the implementation of various
resource mobilization measures to address its fiscal problems, guarantees to
meet whatever shortfall may occur. Because of theae possible problems,
intensive supervision by the Bank, especially in the early stages, will be
required.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
(iii) of the Bank's Article of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the Loan are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. V. Clausen
President
December 13, 1983



BEST COPY AVAiLABLE
-21                                              AN-       I
Page 1 of 5
T08?                    (1ON7 N1015 IDIATR) fL
=PUT N           I"fTbt IS35            UDSL IC R
am (lawfn q. mj
TIAL                              404.1      404.4      404.
AORICLTUAL                        141.7      154.5       IS.2.
-  Pit ceia (US)                     210.0      43.0       1630.0           106.2                    2452.
(KILnmAW  OP CoaL  UIIVALUV7f)     60.0     14.0        100.0           1407.6                   1510.6
0PUl.rATIGtUI.N3AR (IN3AN)   2776.0        2194.0      3057.0
UBAN POPULATION (s or TWTA)        35.6       27.1        29.              69                      41.6
POPULATION PIOJUCTIONI
POPULATTON IN  nW 20o (M4ILL)                            4.1
NATIONAI PoPULArION (MILL)                               6.0
AN UTATIOVAR PtP.  SAC HUD                             205
POPUAtION 111N31Tt
PER tq. 606.                      4.4        5.6         .335.6                                   62.0
PRO S1Q. IN. A1t. WD            12.5       14.3        17.0               .:2                  1in.2
POULATI1ON ACE STIUCTUUI (2)
0-14 133                        45.9        44.0       44.0             40.1                     31.9
s-  TAN                          "0.8       so.57 05.6                   55.8                     60.9
61 AND AUG93                      5.3        3.2         3,4              4.1                      7.1
POPULATION 3ownl MTN(1 sAlt
TOTAL                             '^4        /::         *'6              2.5                      I'4
tItIAU                                                   3.3              3.7                      2.4
CIUD! 3131Ik lkAR (PUk TN160)      43.0       J8.2        31.6             31.5                     25.0
CXUn  DRAIN RAW (PUB 130111)       12.6        9.1         7.2              6.1                      9.1
CROSS RsPROOC70O1 IIATI             3.2        2.D         2.1              2.0                      1.7
FAMlLY rLASNINO
ACCEPTORS, AUAL  (TNO               .         ..        26.04*
(Mao (2 or MUANIC  UEY)            *.         ..        xe.of              .*
FM0 AM NI7IITIO
IIDSX or FWD0 PROD. PIR CAITA
(t919-71-10o)9 ".0                           103.0      109.0             113.0                    106.4
P  CAPT  SU"LY or
caoLOuuu (1 or .10UI,0ml3)      114.0      121.0       134.0            111.3                    132.6
PROMEIS (CRM VCR DAY)            7s.0       76.0        36.0             67.9
of NIIIC ARUS.AL An Mug         43.0       42.0        4 6.0            34.1                     34.6
COIUD (AZS 1-4) DRTAI RAN           9.0        4.3        2.6               5.3                    10.4
oat.
LIlt t011c. AT utRI (russ)          5.6       621.2       64.6             64.6                     61.2
INFANT IITI. SAATS (PEr Ou)        65.9       StE        46.1              62.6                     72.4
AC003  mT SR MATO (2POP)
TOTAL                             5.9       11.0        13.OJ            6       4..
UA                               15.3       22.0        25.0f            77.8
RURAL                             0.3        5.0         S.0         ,  44.3
ACCtSS TO  X3U0T1 DISPOSAL
(t OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         .0        10.0ff           5.8
Ul11A,                                      14.0        2S.07t           39.8
tlAL                               ..         ..                         29.5
POUTIO0N PN RYiCZN               1830.0     3240.0      1710.0           1776.0                   1094.6
POP. mg NIEsINa iDIOM            1380.0    1710.0       IL0O.O           1012.2                    762.5
POP. M  HOSPITAL U
TOTAL                           400.0      600.0       700.0            477.0                    334.0
URBAN                           210.0k    360.0        *70.0Th          667.5                    21b.0
IORAL                          smo.qj   5480.0        3200.07          1921.6
ADtsior  PSa PR   rPrTAL u           ..         ..         ,.              27.2                    20.0
rn-I-
AVERACE 3120 or 3lo063130
TOTAL                             5.54        3.4...
URBAN                             5-1        5*07'
RIMS.                             s.,1^j     s.7.
AVER  NO. OF PM3BbShRtO
TOTSAL                             .64       2.41b        ..
KU'S.                              ..        3.17i
ACCOS To PLIC. (XCz oUU ULIS)
Tam                              13.24      17.5h         ...
1uV*                             33.Rjj  - -t             *'.17            **
RIMAL                             1I         I



BEST COPY AVAILABIj                                                        22-
ANNE I
rage  of 5
^Y _~     !'~' !PICCf           A l I   J!RgFKg" *r           5 
AT  PHY           NIPPI.K lIADN           HIenF
W.9"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AlKlIlGrKII X*Nli..KwT MTII                   I n           m-                0.
PI"AIYI ?fl?M.                     11,0        57.0         21.0             40.0                       36.1
IM 1.1                   1  I1 .0                26.0              11,6                      61.4
VOCATNOMNV  ITI. CUO   3013271                   41          4IJ.0           11.4
PtJpIL-YEACHR    10.a               I7.n         a,(
fluNAWI                         23.0        12.0         21.0              50.7                      1.,O
PRIMAnR                             6.0 n.n.0               12.0              14.7                        1
ADU6T LTIRAMC       AT (At)          'a           0n.5T       34.0              7.1                       19.7
marIa.
pAs4ItWNR CARI?TOIMn POP              2.1         a.?           ..              *s.s                      n.-
tA0t0 IKtCR V3IO/7NO3MID Pr.         32.2         fl.N        31.?             21                         135.1
TV 3ICKIVKSITOSIANI POP                ,,         14.3        20.             I0.1                       124.2
NWIIPAPgRt ("0.II*NIRAL.
uiqTn3xr) CIRCUII.ATt.1N                                       .               6.
PgE THUoRAMn PnOPILATIOMN           3.          41.7         20.2              *4I                        h.1
CIINEA ANNIIAL ATTrY1dCE/CAPTRA        ..          ..           .. P.9                                     2.9
LARGE PCU14n                                                     na     
TfOAL 1.4llORC  (THI2UN             173.0n       72.0        133.0                ,                       3
PIALK (PRECKUT)                    21.3        2t.5        23.3               24.3                      24.1
403tC111.1UIE (PKECINTI            13.1         52.6        44.3               1.1                      40.?
IAICUTE1Y (PERCENT)                19.0        19.2        20.4               23.9                      21.4
PANTIC I PAtION RATt (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              12.         31.3         32.               11.1                      42.0
HALt                               Ii.?        50.0        b9.4               49.3                      35.2
MAL%                               13.9        11.5         15.4              14.6                      21.1
ECONOMIC OCNPhKIECY NATt 1RA                      1.          1.5               1.4                       0.9
:im   D3tTEISUYt
PERcNT WF PHtVATR INCM
nscctVCD IT
NTORST  32 or  NOlH                  ....                .n.
1110UT20X? or OP  OUEIIROLNI         ..          .             ...
flCNTS 202 CF KOUSINK3ODI
LOHCST 201D OP NOEIULDS               ..
LOIS?T 4*0   O IOUSU...
0e11Sf TA   MGM
hSTIfATID ABCOLUTI POPVRT  INCONE
LEM. (US$ PR CAPITA)
RUAL                                 ..           ..          ..             14.5
ESTIHAIFhI ELUtVg POVERTY INCOME
LCVC .uRSg Pgl CAPITA)
113343                               ..           ..       230.0ff           519. 1                        .
BARN                                 .                    260 o7T            372.1                     409.0
CRTITIATRO por. BELOW AIISOLUTE
POVERtY I INCO LEV.L (2)
1     9. OLt
RtURAL                                                       ----soo_
HoT AVAILABLE
NoT  APPLtCAILPT
NO TECs
/a  The group averaes for  *meli tndicater arm populatio-o   htbtrad arltmetti   _ ans.  Covrage of eruntries eamo     the
indicatuor  depends on availabtlity of data and is not ufiform.
lb  Unlear othervie not'ed. Data for 1960r refer to any year between 1q59 and 1961; 'Date  or 1970- betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for 'lost Recent lrntimte betwee, 191 and 1981.
/c DOw to eimgratton of Parqgayrnn to neighboring countrten (Argentitna  nd Iroatl): population growth rate Le Ieer
ttun rate of mntural tncreane; /d 1976 /c 19077; if 1975: jf 1962: /h 1972: /f 1973.
imy 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 23 -                                                             ANNEXIL
Page 3 of 5
"IF5lTICMS or SOCIAL. lIiCaSW
Wet-t  Alhubgh mime data sf  dee" Irt5   -te Rtetoy js.r  the -t  -sth-rLtotis  sa  reliabl. It ete'Ld sl  be eat  aget they sy -C be isteatlaallIy
=      bsle ieee.. at the lack at seesged dsflaliee  sd eaten.  -  by diffee.a-  sant- . Inee  eeig  h dat. It. dots  t,eefeleegsa 
deseae  tdee  t  agctaa.iMtate- tee.. emS theaeererseia.  e   dat fee,-e   atne  Cenait.-
W- ettas  zAews ec  12 the  -n -nsir  mesa? e  the=abmt  cn. a   3 -s- cI ten          ae  .51h    e    hisie  esea,e tecse  thee th  et    e, atth
satiae csoetyc.n.   tee"mIs I     metol tepm..res  gr t     M ldl Ife.  sen- tStiesAL  sa  OtidAl  et"lca.        han-a ert4teai-caie
ore ilal...  Isme tc.ests grap dat thesatan. ar  P"ap.lat   nightS  sItilett- te     e se  i-aleaeeasht. aLy sh- tej"tly et the cesstiac la
gya   e   aafe  them  itiett  Set h  eae -geCta -tla  -s   tbe idSl- -r -etA.PeA   Lbsh  ssaelbittl of dams sa  ia  e  nit.... `-ls  nt he
St. (sen.e  aq.he.l            .LS                              1%0.een!ytrs  -Pelstlt  --htde  hi m1-t at pfte
gun -W  10 dat.                                                                      tasaas -    eri  tens  - ip.Lt be  div 4e by .a.he 51.  prostlata
tot eea~s,  asesret. aehet sad htche  Lgstdr  t- Is.li  WaIar  liG.            etlwsg  sl.tc
eassers-in -tad as W6Ld 9.0 datl.  (M19941 heels):                          rb611.bsiitte  cant-r-. WIsptais at eeiabllae-tt  p.ass.ly atatta
time. 191. as Iist date                                                                  b a  tast -  pbysitce.&    (tblea.t  preeWtila  pelst pelly tesms
ears te Cisrided.tota  beptsa         -rtts. lI-A.d  Wetch as
mpea              mmcunnv  cenTs - teslctl.tamtsetettlaie   eac  -t pee,-.t17 mtalad be a vhysiele  "e y*saItl
pteey-n sry mtaa  enlgai.  eaa. --Ire ate sad b1dt., slestae,en-adet. -ten) .01st ettr- is-PlteI                                               senMttes
asd .aetbeas e-tasartols  I  tlg    .2ki9   sea sqerdstP., acpi:                         psattda   tisttd reac .2 sadloo  teeIllttet  tat aetCUICtlo1 p-rpases
tilt. 197. .  sm 11 data.                                                                -the  !.eptsULa Ite    MIS. petaetp.tfptasa  hbAstel. as        I.
Forutarro m   straL .aATtSTlCt                                                             Spetlsllea  betpmI.t  an   elatd" tely -W-a acs!
Uts M eM ta  fett ci atl) - loam. if stie  as weal Psestlati
-.6   9960. 1970. -d lost 4-                                           s Aaaialed  aesl 'agrp?  adtl.le'0   hes lta  csft
CM alaisfO         uts   eaaIapaotls  e   ess  10As :Ibi sat.  -I.. A hessiat   tadge  -l atfysthetesdi
tIre1  e.sae  lIt. masmay a blest 1eeatlIalt  e.ab               V .,                a  peee  par an tMotaa    sre   tstdsssle
Cml-t Inn  le-al, -A  Easel life tspstms scb1IIae  - 17.5                             alLee  sp.scy   f-tleeIsg   -I.d  sepcaas  ereee 
M...i. psr-t- tee fee-Ltty rats sIt bstm Chre  -itnel                             taaepia  P.,..
tetletas  ff --rtsly -As F-Ctttty -esd  tat pee .riac         _m                  at ts"". ebso. as tate  d4glIlaga re-paltwl.
sltstar blea  se  is I.ee!  . the isaPram.1  ec oL. th  ogsc
deelieto th  rcyleeesss  I.t.tr at C   t - ec eaela  rte, sea                        tr-cts -.-I - tct  e s asfsel - Craa taso. sale a   fasal
sec iaosoaia  .1 te    rapsa  manic attty. The atatlsey                                e_rsiac  at all ae at the 1m -.alaa  -  Pef...mLges attepe
epslal.-  & sat    estoL-d as the bests sf Pt     - rjacte  tbse-tr.                   Olt-ae, scee-sso ps.lt-n-; m         ly Isldas sttldees W sad-It
'lctIcs a .t lbs   -S past.a Ia ba year  00. sd the. -teta    datlia  at               yae  tat Slattd Cu dlttseee  leqtth at priany Ssr Pa.ts  fa
cetaatla  sIntIl he asasa. Th.aa  tn  shei -toal sale asfrl -   r5.~   as.    W.t;seada
err      he.-      "Ld L se   passlaC..S.. gessr   inae(i,acse2a                           rsdas gearel e         =,cs.W ar aset. aralelog ietesttasf
Ct.lets:iW. 3970. as l13 6' a.                                                         peile  asly ad 12 - 17 V.er of sgc: tmra.dsossa- 
her as. he. agrttds tolla   Cepated  ashae ta  sgaleslaflo  laM                    meetS!?  scldtd.
eay;1910 1910 asisdt.ltaaas  sslse(5t5t'tstast -  tetcs attait
he peri).  s reIred  by j Cn asear  as-1 psaeatae  at eU-pes                  atlya1a  epesee  sit                     P..,-l etisia
pealtsa   iS   97.  s311da.                                                           tiL-asse rai==         reN   ,~   esde     es  asa   esdt
Pbtslaleatetoit Wts tsrtemm)   te I"-,bsal gamt mIss c  tata  eld-             prasay ea. aeaeasy teeL.  trde.&  by eade ettastsi the sr
feat pajletsae tr 1fl0at, IWO-tO  as li0-8l.                                 eapaaiLU I.Lesl
teeRea sretls  (--Ict -a -    - esleee   ae  t.ce                              .!m It-ss  rear (torren  - liasam  sdls(.iI.eMa  ets 
esploees  fa.ioto ..          r,  s17-t.. 1  1- '                                       a  s-eaaa  tteatadspeaatesaed1  yec as et.   .-
Crsd. lint let -se C- eea-d) - asal LlIe  titte P.r lhansa  at eld
yee  aelse;lit. till', as ti9  da-.is.rs
teats sets here f-re the-) -          l1 desrhe pee Lhesetd at 51d-yea                 nseeaCr  st teea   seats    P                  "-   -_setcr cftss_ se
P.P.Lata; Lime, titI. as 39141 dat.ts   ete   e.te   igtpess   nS.aaes -eans aM
_ee   spat.est   A..tags  e.ret Oestaee a  n    111 base Ma                        ::IIlt  se.L-a.
is  -orit    lIiep"tt" if eh  sep-reae  peees  egeaselc                             Wadis Eaalst -(r  ahe-ea  ratltle) - All up.. ift         " sesnts e  esI.
tsftltty retas sen ly ie..t-  seatag   esegi  16,  97.astasets la geeta  p.iopr h                                            es  pmbeletes  -I.ed. r
halt.                                                                                  Ltceee  -uaI-e  te setLa- as is 7en as rastle at-at.
raF-  plcae -W=   f Oretr.=tss  C.hseodI - ^-elsttta uett                                tea. a  is steas: dAta fee rares p.es  -Fc oa h. ......tl  am.    es
Rttamtartdevcsna=             nlna asalasI-  Ite "17pWifnatansa  sAltle    iiO-sa.ig
Pesatag.                                                     Tt teseireta~~~~~~~~~~ tCs tteacd   sesta. - TV reets-  Cubeaatt
te    ttldtafesatitost,            -  %lbth-eatrc  dastte  to                 i tcestie  asi  ra   e  r            ttne TV St  -    Is Oeet.
all asated toes Pa te, em  iran..e.aeet ai-elatn tfee tace-d yfLsr.l-I  SUv aesrr
sac  a                                                                                        meat.tee    Lsn   ".-a    ecesasee.d!ede     etadlea
lade.setdttdrmeprZta  tmis 1-tflee.  - [Id-.  f 1 se  cpLastebiet    d-4as  pttrLLIy as -ee 1dit    -.cs  ce,I     aaie.
matstpattsaSiltetette pedttoassesedath -.Idaur If It spp-e  at Inst let. tlae  a sash,
Eaf tat a       ' f e er   ecta ba).tggegwI pedsteatacceoy IsIaet ick    -its.                                   .n. S&dL.I                   .d1-.I          
hems ateatlaca  esrrst pradaet sai  pwigts iti-aa  1910 as" L.iti.-I-
data.                                                  Lean earn~ ~~~~_XLq   ~-  --.-. lL
eP'..s as tht..- t.sk. it.. sashes  -I.d  -eI-  ems. masts,                           saspable:IWA. 1970 aid 19th date.
qe_tlmls cee  la L.e rwP-"eai. aM lee  tedsrtet                                        resete (tstaea   - insl. lotte Ler  a               Fesig   L-ase lebe fern.
Reqttoeea"r   e-ea-d by teAD teaS as ebralaaataa  ss.d. tar se-Ilclaeteet l                                    ateC1-r. tes   la tselr  ferstry  %anIt  aM
ai   seaSstimtse a   saols.a   leea  It-perbes7 -tar nte                         Istas  eret)-lt tarn              Z     --. 90 towosta,acs1rsset  ese Ats.n
- hashed leve: miLl-As. iWO .5 191 da-e                                                 OS  letfLtty. star  as t - eettstag  ctate!t- lote tote: lime.
teCepy at t-a                            Z."ay      rl  a   m  is jetload as ann    ftrttcspti-W       C srst   Ist  e.  ,  ssi      atcpia 
.cst. -ot faa.1 all-cetItes -sblietd by tilt PresId. let, stais                           -7Iet  rams oa   so        -g nl saeUa  tes. Itba  fftt" a
eltes.ste   eto gent at al pr--I. pet isy ad lOans at -telI .5peaess afteas! as'. -W teas!. Ppa-slttet ataqll ge  esPeatlteln
p.let prattl. .2.0kb tO tens stati  is  .[-oe  eretoi.  mass                           Ice. 1970, a   3-1   dew.--   The  -  teas -  tLWa peLL.sLtP.sl- ac-
tadeseeleast thtrbcs ad 71 gaso at wad wsal  s   21 gen                         esfiastha  ag-s atnoce  rt she p.sl-ss as lile.I str te. a
atsa.   .at  c- ensktoa  for Its  -eId,.epa    by tAD le the                   en saltt    s tee  -ctte    -ets
V-ed "aI t." Isese; 1hAl-fl, 3970 as19  dote.                                      oasesa lorrdns gas   - BasIs t P".p.lat- near is as el asset
Pe at   ttS   terteete   srle.ista  sopy of ted                                       Ih  sstme-    fts
data.                                                                        lOUtP lliThlHDotllit
itlid ta  i-)les let. (pec aead  -  ~ld% ai 41"            a t)as --A                    77     TFl;r-t  toe  (tar IrahAM  kiad) - loettms by riche   S
agegry       ys.  t  Olalelothia ea   ec~a ta irlpitg                          P.est rithee  20 sanes. Pste-s  zapaet-t. asp-.trs  a p.fas at
-tasere  data  eteS lee tiCs tables: 1960. 1970 as miS3 date.                          beseatade.
Maclit                                                     Petit TStsT anspa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-tPt
ble    Pa;L -LL.190a    InS     I   th ~        z. -        Case.                aheabld tIttrsd.S nsdtbeeele
taet eaet -5ls (att-csh        - eldaaa i    l-tdb.atas   ae   sttase.alt  mca lace. le.! (i-t  Le te -te .  v-t as  sr-
year cc ag  p.r-tea   9-t les h1940 -P19  a   IPal-1 de.i                                    =ls   reyIn   enI tha  Ins les hao thth. .-155
teas  at ata Mer (Enest    esltiasp-t   me.tal -bsa as tcb re.                      a-Lllen!l  adeqsew  dit pac naato  se-edtqtrsaeI 
a-.caepl Cesads emsefet  -or  e earaadba                                   ttiesd a_f n tsserer taan   tryst .Ot    - cal.)-sha  a  tn
seatrs s  ste Itotshaid  de eat  .ss a  apes a   diprprtsat   par atI                                                                 sb     .-
bras    --Urtt  taaa -a   eae`et s at 7 aniates)   mtal, scm  asitF                                                       I  my..   tja                  --
tarel -dItrc pasLts (-94u1, atn..   rtelsersb eset



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
24
ARm I
Pe 4 of 5
3ONONIEC IIDICATORS
Popeution:      3.3 dilUon (1952) 1/
CGP Per Capita: t3l1.570 (1982) I/ -
AaoUt           Average Annml Increase %     Share of CDP at fat.t Prices S
tE15* minion" currant)   jiuc) (tt ctrrent ea-
1980    1981   1982 tJ 1       1                 1965   t70    1975    198t    1982 t/
NATIOAL ACCOUITS 2/
GDP                     4,566   4.970   4.715       4.4   6.9  10.9    100.0  100.0   100.0   I            *0.0   100.0
Agricultire         1.31t1   1.348    1.247      t.6   6.1   7.3       36.7   32.1    36.6    27.1   2.5
Induatry             1.141   1t268   1t168       6.0   7.3  16.1       18.1   19.6    20.2    25.5    24.8
Serviesa            2.1t4   2,354   2.300        6.1   6.2  11.1       45.2   48.3    56.8    47.4    48.8
Consuption             3547 4s024   3g995           4.t   48    7.2       86.t   85.7    80.3    81.0    847
Groam Imweetent         1.600   1.755  1t582        6.0  16.3  23.6       15.1   14.7    26.8    35-3    33.6
Export of goods te   tn     874   314     850       3.8   7.9  18.2       16.1   16.0    16.9    16.4    18.0
Import of goods & nfs  1.464   1.623    1.712       3.9   9.6  19.2       17.2   16.4    24.0    32.7    36.3
Groa Deomstic Savnga  1.019       946     720       5.3  t-..3  20.8      13.9   14.3    19.7    19.0    15.3
Ao,mt             Average Anmnl Ilcreas I         Composition of Usrebaie S
miSS  lion current)      (at  en                            (-t currant wc(
lg8    1981   1982    195-70 1970-75 1g0    19h5   1970   1975    1981l   19ez 7l
EtuaRnl TRASE
Mrchandise emports      709      676    677       -1.4   17.5   15.4
(or which Projects)    88     1 03    79       -       -      40.3
-erchbandie imports    1.254   1.388   1.379       5.1    9.0   25.1    100.0  1O0.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                  24       33      24      -3.3  -10.6   22.4       10.9    8.2    3-3       2.4      1.7
Other Coamoer goods  101       99    1C9       13.2   12.4    7.9        8.4   18.5   14.8       7.1     7.9
Primary an Inter-
medLate goad.        114     10Q    143        8.8  -12.7   29.5       28.0   25.1   14.7       7.4    10.4
Fuels and lubricaet,  130      95    154       15.9    2.1   10.0        0.4    9.1   14.4       6.8    11.2
Capital goods        149      178    151       -2.0   13.6    8.4       26.1   24.2   22.3    12.8    10.9
Otbhrs 3/            449      543    492        1.5   21.7   36.1       18.3   15.9   19.0    39.2   .35.7
Project              287      337    306       -       -      37.6      -       -      11.5    24.1    22.2
1975     1976     197       1978       1979     1980        1981      192 1/
PRICIZ AND Tl1 O? TRADI
COP deflator (197.-100)           87.2     91.6    100.0       1 0.4    133.1     155.5       1B1.3    190.5
xchange rate (rlUs)              126.0    126.0    126.0       126.0    126.0      126.0      146.0    160.0
-xport pric  nd                   69.6     73.4    100.0       91.0      97-9      101.0      107.1     89.6
Import price index               101.7     92.5    100.0      107.2    128.7       145.6      138.5    143.5
Terms of trade idex               68.4     79.4    100.0       B4.9      76J       69.4        77.3     62.4
As % of GOP (Current Prices)
1965   1970  1975  1979  1980  1981  1982
Uu iC iUCE (CENTRAL CCVzs,r.)
Current Reveu                                                10.4   11.7   9.4   9.9   9.0   8.1   9.1
Currant ExpendLtur                                           B.   10.2   7.6   6.6   7.4   7.4   8.7
SurpiWn  () or Deficit C-)                                    i.9    1.5   1.8   3.4   1.6   0.7   0.4
Capita Expendteure                                            1.7    1.9   2.3   2.7   2.3   2.4   2.2
Financing (net)                                              -0.2    0.4   0.5  -0.7   0.7   1.7   1.8
OTR  M11ICATOIM                                              1965-70    1970-75    1975-O    1990.85
GNP gotb rate (1)                                            4.4       6.7         10.6        0.0
CGP per capita growfth rate (1) .7                                     3.4         7.0        -2.4
TCW                                                         2.9        2.5         3.1        26.6
marginal Saving. rate                                       27.3      42.6         52.5       40G9
import elaeticity                                            1.0       1.4          1.8        4.7
1/ Estiaate.
22/ Current Guaranies converted at 146 per 15 in 1981 ant 160 in 1982.
/ Includes eetimated non-regiaterAd imports.
Sources: Central Bank of Paraguay, M  and T iion eatimatee.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
rLOf-6 5
18.U4    0 PA  TS IMAL CAPITAL. AND DCBT
I  lUU 1110  curronti
PopLation:      3.3 iLtlion (1982)
CNP Per CpiLta: USS1t.570 (1912)
ActualPrt 
t978    1979    *90    99         182Z   1985       t8       -r9-85
BAL3  0U PAlNUTS 1I
let exports of goods & slrrcee                      -712      -964    -900 -1.094  -1.262   -1,041   -1.495   -1.635
Rzpo.to of goods & services                       654       80C    1.07J  1.009   1.073    1.091       1.263    1.570
(of  hich project.)                               126       147      188    222       171     I1I       130      175
Imports of goods & *srvices                     1.366     t.767    1.907   2.102   2.335    2,132     2.758    3.205
(of which project.)                               413       518      642    723       843     492       887    1.005
itt tra"f.ru                                           6         7        5       6       17       13       14       16
Currn.t Account Balance                             -705      -957    -894 -1.089  -1,245   -I,CI9    -1.481   -1,619
Direct private Investmnt. net                         14        29        5      -8       32       32       32       35
P& LT loans. net                                     678       822    1.005   1.113    1.160     822    1.293    1.508
Official                                           1i5       00      10    122        119      129       168     t77
Private                                            26        52       13    -18        27      89        100     150
Projects                                          547       690      8e2   1.009   1.014       604    1.016    1,181
Other                                                182       274       46      25      -19        -        6       26
Chanes in reerva C-increase)                        -169      -169    -162      -1       72      175       150       50
rnternational resrves                                438       6C7      774    819      753      577       427      377
Reserves as mths of iOrs                             3.9       4.1      4.9    4.7       4.3     3.2       1.9      1.4
Actoal
1918     1979    19S0   1981    1982
E31l35AL CAPITAL AID DEUT (Public & Private) 2/
Gross D. totreesnt                                  157.5    186.5   206.0   201.3  297.4
Off<iil Creditors                                  b7.8     43.4    53.2    75.1  114.8
Nultlst.ral                                   29.2      34.0    39.9    67.3   77.3
iUND                                          7.8      16.4    30.1    34.3   43.0
IDA                                           5.3       3.6      2.9      2.5    0.5
BiLuter.t                                      38.6       9.4    13.2       7.8   37.5
Private creditore                                 90.1    142.2   151.4   126.2  182.6
Supplies                                       48.8      72.6    70.0    62.0   23.9
Pinanciel Narteta                               41.3     69.6    81.5    64.2  158.6
Rxternal Debt                                       872.7  1.290.9  1,247.5  1.660.2 1,964.5
Debt Outatanding  nd Disburaed                    530.9    661.6   783.7   841.9 1,OT1.0
OfficLal                                       445.1    523.5   632.9   700.2  940.0
Pr1vate                                         85.8    138.1   150.8   132.7  131.0
OnMinburBed Debt                                 301.8    629.3   563.8   818.3  893.5
Debt Service
Total Service Payments                             49.7     83-7   124.9   131.8  107.3
Intereet                                       18.0      29.9    44.5    36.9   45.1
Payments an   experts                              7.6      10.4    12.4    13.1   10.0
Avere Interest rate on new loan  S)                   8.4       6.9      7.2      9.9    9.1
orricial                                           6.6       6.5      5.6      5.9    8.1
Private                                            10.1      8.4    12.6    12.2   11.4
Average maturity of new loan                          16.1     19.1    22.4    15.9   15.7
Offilcal                                          23.3      21.0    26.2    24.1   18.4
Private                                            8.7      10.6      9.8    11.3    9.0
As S of Debt Outstading
at  d of lt Recent
rea. (1982)
Naturity structue of debt outeeandag
NAturities du. within 5 year                                    33.5
NIturitis  due within I years                                   64.2
Interest structure of debt outstandig
Interest due witbin first year                                   3.8
1/ Officl fSgures are adJusted to lnclulde etmtes of unrgistered trade and import. eport end borrowing operatiom attributable
to the Itaipo and Yacyreta binattena entities.
}1  Debt payabLe in foreign  urrency.



BEST-- bOPY AVAILABLE
-26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (Sept. 30, 1983)a/
-------(us$ million)-------
Loan or                                             Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No. Year  Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven loans and eight credits fully disbursed bI    91.3   49.8
1418       1977  Paraguay  Rural Development II        22.0    -         7.5
1419       1977  Paraguay  Industrial Credit           10.0    -         0.4
1502       1977  Paraguay  Rural Vater Supply           6.0    -         0.7
1674       1979  Paraguay  Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0    -         5.2
1736       1979  Paraguay  Highways VI                 39.0    -        16.9
1780       1979  Paraguay  Preinvestment
Studies II               5.0    -          4.8
1866       1980  Paraguay  Industrial Credit
and Regional
Development              31.0    -        26.2
1979       1981  Paraguay  Livestock Development       20.0    -         1.6
1992       1981  Paraguay  Rural Primary Education   17.0    -          15.6
2014       1981  Paraguay  Second Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation   11.8    -         10.5
2087       1982  Paraguay  Caazapa Area Development  31.0               31.0
2140       1982  Paraguay  Seventh Highway             46.0    -        45.3
2141       1982  Paraguay  Eje Norte Rural
Development             22.4    -         22.1
2304       1983  Paraguay  Agricultural Credit c/    40.0               40.0
Total (net of cancellations)              417.5   49.8      227.8
of which has been repaid                 26.1    2.5
Total nov outstanding                     391.4   47.2
Amount sold                    1.3
of which has been repaid    1.3           0.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                391.4   47.2
Total undisbursed                                           227.8
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
-   report on all BankjIDI financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
b/ Includes exchange adjustment.
N/ Jot yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (Sept. 30, 1983)a/
t     Year                                                       (Amount in USS million)
Loan    Equity    Total
1974    P1NAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing        4.4       1.0      5.4
1980    NMOTEL (Encarnacion)        Hotel Development      0.9      0.3       1.2
1982    Golondrina S.A.             Agricultural
Development          5.0      2.0      7.0
Total gross commitments                           10.3      3.3      13.6
Cancellation, sales repayment
and terminations                                (4.4)    (1-0)    (5-4)
Net held by IFC                                    5.9      2.3       8.2
Total undisbursed                                  3.0        -       3.0
a/   A US$2.5 million loan for a hotel operation in Asuncion was approved in
1982, bat is not yet signed.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken by the Country to Prepare ProLect:  10 months
(b)  Preparation By:  SNPP assisted by Bank
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:  July 1982
(d)  First Bank Mission:  July 19B2
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  February 1983
(f)  Negotiations:  November 1983
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  June 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) Assurances were be obtained that:
(i) the basic and intermediate skills training courses would
be in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank (para 42).
(ii)  the Government would review the performance of the Post-
Training Fund and prepare a report for discussion with the
Bank by July 1, 1987 (para 54);
(iii)  a study on SNPP's reorganization and budget procedures
would be sent to the Bank not later than December 31, 1985
(para 56);
(iv)  the study on the long-term funding for rural training
activities and on budget procedures would be sent to the
Bank not later than December 1, 1987, (para 57);



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                       - 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v)    the Government would ensure the availability, under terms
r                                and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, of the foreign
exchange needed for the acquisition of goods and services
for the project (para 66);
*                   (b)  Retroactive financing up to $250,000 would be made available for
expenditures related to preparation of training materials, hiring
out training of additional instructions, hiring of keypoint
personnel and improving the design of project monitoring and
impact evaluation incurred after February 24, 1983 (para 65);
(c) It would be conditions of effectiveness that:
(i) a Subsidiary Agreement be executed between the Government
and CAH covering administrative procedures, eligibility
criteria and lending terms and conditions for the
Post-Training Fund (para 52);
Cii) SNPP's Director-General be designated as representative of
the Government in carrying out the Project (para 62);
(iii) a Project Implementation Unit be created and a Director
for this Unit be appointed (para 62); and
(iv) a special account be established in the Central Bank to
accelerate reimbursement for expenditures incurred
(para 64).



IBRD 1718
_   - X           >              ~~~       ~      ~~ ~~~~57-   e    55-                A8PRIL 19ll3
BOLIVIA                                                                                         A
PARAGUAY
r              BR __                 SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
|     <    tre7 o of Mop                            SNPP Conigrs        a  CI tSi and Towmn           21
L1                                         Ongoing Ruwa        *  National Capoial
... sLDo"lammnl P1o1iz    S_ ictod Roads
( 2   in Este               ata
r                 <         V                                [IT $  f-- 3 -] Iito Poron6 Conmndiyu  Depoatmenn Boundaries
r   7   :   , t 2 .                            - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I n l   ror- o i a ol   bo w n d o o its
L                       A                                                                  22?
ARGENTINIA     t             tRunCiIr
4<_   5't   S  t  -   -        -   /~~~>j                B R A  Z  I L        
C-2
27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
Pow Colorado
24   \        69   g       3            (vt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ >    J   24~~~~~~~~~~24~
"C.           '     o       l     toi  Sto del Guoara
25   1A                             ~    ~ ~ ' )--                             ~      {2
ASUNCION        Cooup  CAuS-
-  -          .IL.Mollamumn  2 01:   P,o Pro Stn,.ssner    R0,1
0   2    420    g   6 a M MILES            /         IoN''' ;;               :
O s50  100 KILOMETERS                       : - (  %
-26'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
AR GE NTINA  +  ,--  /  < {
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 J                     4i inu
--- - ~ < 2~    r   o---  27-
59r \ >         w              73x<>@  SV    56'               55'           5a  '



