Docuimt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USIE ONLY
Repot NO.  13147
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2373-PA)
JUNE 14, 1994
Human Resources Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Name of currency:    Guarani (G)
Appraisal year:      US$1 = G 160
Completion Year:     US$1 = G 1,638 ( January 1993, IMF's
International Financial Statistics
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAH           -      Small Farmer Credit Agency
GOP           -      Government of Paraguay
IBR           -      Institute of Rural Welfare
MERCOSUR  -          Common Market of the Southern Cone
NGOs          -      Non-governmental Organizations
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit of SNPP
SNPP          -      National Vocational Training Service
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectorGenernl
Op.ratlorn Evaluaton
June 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESEDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Paraguay
Second Vocational Training Project (Loan 2373-PA!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Paraguay--Second Vocational
Training Project (Loan 2373-PA) prepared by the Latin America and the Canbbean
Regional Office. It provides a satisfactory account of the project's history and
achievements. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. It is in agreement with the findings
of Parts I and m and stresses the positive role of Bank staff during implementation.
This project focussed on rural skill training, by (a) strengthening a basic
skills training program for rural families; (b) developing an integrated rural training
package; and (c) expanding and improving the responsible agency, the National Vocational
Training Service (SNPP).
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, with most quantitative targets
reached or exceeded. On the whole, institutional development was considerable, and
sustainability of the project's achievement appears likely.
Compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory, albeit, in the case of
the annual audits and of a study, with some delays. No audit of this operation is planned.
Attachment
This document ha a restrcted distributon and may be used by recipients only In the pedormance of thoir oMfcial
dudes. Ih contents may not otherwis be discloeed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT ( LOAN 2373-PA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................ i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ............................................    ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................   1
A.         Project Identity  ..........................................                                                               1
B.         Background  ............................................                                                                   1
Sector Development Objectives  ................................                                                            1
Policy Context  ..........................................                                                                 1
Linkages between Project, Subsector and Macro  Policy Objectives  ...                                       .......        1
C.         Project Objectives and  Description    .............................                                                       2
Project Objectives  ........................................                                                              2
Project Description   .......................................                                                             2
D.         Project Design and Organization  ...............................                                                           3
E.         Project Implementation  .....................................                                                              3
Critical Variances in Project Implementation    .......................                                                   3
Project Risks .               ...........................................  4
F.         Project Results .                   .........................................   4
Project Objectives  ........................................                                                              4
Impact of the Project  ......................................                                                             4
G. Project Sustainability.                                                                                                            6
H.         Bank Performance  ........................................                                                                 7
Strengths and Weaknesses  ...................................                                                             7
I.         Borrower Performance   .....................................                                                               8
Strengths and Weaknesses  ...................................                                                             8
J.         Lessons Learned  .........................................                                                                 8
K.         Project Relationships   ......................................                                                             9
Bank-Borrower Coordination and Performance   ......................                                                        9
L.         Consulting  Services  .......................................                                                              9
M.         Project Documentation and Data  ...............................                                                            9
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                      ....... 10
PART  III:         STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   ................................    12
A.         Related Bank Loans  .......................................    12
B.         Project Timetable   ........................................                                                             13
C.         Loan Disbursements    ......................................                                                             14
D.         Project Implementation  .....................................                                                            15
This document has a restricted distribution and rmay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



E.           Project Cost and  Financing    .........  .                                     .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   .  16
Project Costs   ............                          ...     ..   ..    ..   ..    ..   ..    ..   ..    ..   ..    ..   ..    ..   .         .  16
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds    ........  ..  .                                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
F.           Project Results   ............                           ..    ..   ..   ..    ..   .         ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..       .  18
Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Studies .............................................. .  19
G.           Status  of Loan  Covenants    .........  .                                   ..  .   .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .   .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
H.           Use  of Bank  Resources  ..........                             .         ..  .   .  ..  .   ..  .   .  ..  .   ..  .    .  ..  .   .  ..  .   .  21
Staff Input . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Missions ............................................. .  22
Map - IBRD 17186



- i--
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT ( LOAN 2373-PA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Vocational Training
Project in Paraguay, for which Loan 2373-PA in the amount of US$5.0 million was approved on
January 3, 1984 and became effective on July 15, 1985. The loan was closed on January 31, 1993,
two and one-half years behind schedule. The loan amount disbursed was US$4.6 million, of which
US$0.4 million was cancelled. The last disbursement was on October 22, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Division, County Department
IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III) following a mission to Paraguay between March 8 and 19, 1993, and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan
Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank
memoranda and documents contained in the LAC Files; and findings of the mission. The draft PCR
was sent to the Borrower's executing agency for comment in July 1993. The executing agency,
SNPP, indicated in mid-September 1993 that it had reviewed the draft PCR and had no comments.



I



- iii~ -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT ( LOAN 2373-PA')
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.           The Second Vocational Training Project ' aimed at promoting rural development
through improving productivity, income, and self-employment in selected agricultural frontier areas
by: (a) expanding and improving SNPP's (Servicio Nacional de Promoci6n Profesional) basic skills
training program for rural families; (b) establishing an integrated rural training package combining
intermediate skills training with technical assistance and access to credit for small-scale farmers and
non-farm entrepreneurs; and (c) strengthening SNPP's managerial, financial, and technical capacity to
train rural workers and to coordinate with other rural service agencies (para. 1.4).
Implementation Experience
2.            Like other projects being executed in Paraguay at about the same period, this project
experienced: (i) start-up delays in signing and effectiveness due to the national legislative procedure,
and counterpart funding problems (disputes about the exchange rate for disbursements, freezing of
earmarked funds, and restricted access to the Special Account); (ii) implementation difficulties
introduced by an innovative Post-training Fund subloan component that was not fully pilot-tested due
to unexpected delays in loan effectiveness, and the need to coordinate new training programs with
other rural public/private agencies at new frontier settlements; and (iii) administrative/political
interference that delayed full staffing of the Project Implementation Unit, and temporary loss of
autonomy and financial independence (paras. 1.6 - 1.9).
Results
3.            At project completion, the three objectives set out during appraisal were fulfilled, with
most key targets reached and some even exceeded. Although it might be too early to assess the full
qualitative impact, there are positive indicators that support the conclusions that: (a) SNPP as an
institution has been greatly strengthened and is able to carry out its new policy of articulation with the
private sector/NGO groups that provide training; (b) the basic skills and intermediate skills courses
benefitted the participants (about 50% of the basic course beneficiaries were women) in terms of
increased skills, income, and opportunities; (c) the innovative Post-training Fund subloan component
has had more limited success due to the lack of experience with this kind of activity, while new needs
(basic-skills-course trainees) were identified; and (d) the project strengthened SNPP's ability to deal
with the agricultural sector, in particular with the settlers on the Eastern frontier (paras. 1.11 - 1 . 13).
' The first Vocational Training Project was approved in May 1976 for US$4.0 million equivalent.
Its implementation was satisfactory and contributed to the expansion of SNPP's vocational training
program in urban and rural areas. That project closed in 1981.



- iv -
Sustainability
4.            The key to the sustainability of the vocational training program rests with SNPP's
ability to continue obtaining adequate recurrent financial resources in future years - i.e., ready access
to the earmarked 1% payroll tax levied on the manufacturing and service sectors. SNPP will need to
respond to emerging national priorities as a result of MERCOSUR by supporting and disseminating
new training methods, and adopting new methods based on better linkages and joint ventures with the
private sector and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). With the PIU's activities being absorbed
into the day-to-day operations of SNPP, no immediate financial difficulty is anticipated (paras. 1.14 -
1.15).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.            The Bank's performance was of acceptable quality from the inception through proper
staffing of supervision missions (with unusual continuity of staff assigned). However, the average 5.0
staff-weeks per year spent on supervision after the project was re-activated could arguably have been
increased to advise better the Borrower on problem components (e.g., Post-training Fund, studies).
Flexibility on the part of the Bank to accommodate the Borrower's needs and effective mutual
dialogue contributed to a successful turnaround in project execution and either meeting or surpassing
the set project targets (paras. 1.16 - 1.18).
6.            The Borrower's inability to meet counterpart project funding is a recurrent theme that
other fora (e.g., Country Implementation Review) will need to address. In addition, weak sector
institutions, as is the case of most social sector projects, might warrant adherence to full funding of
an experienced staff in the PIU that is capable of operating independently (para. 1.20).
7.           Inclusion of an innovative component, such as the Post-training Fund subloan, should
have been fully tested by appraisal, and necessary strengthening measures and precautions taken in
time to expedite implementation. The experience from this project shows that targeting is important
to improve equity. In future components of this kind it is advisable to avoid providing credit in the
form of goods (in-kind credit). When a component was experiencing difficulties, more management
attention and technical assistance resources should have been allocated to its supervision (para. 1.20).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2373-PA )
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name        Second Vocational Training Project
Loan Number :       2373-PA
RVP Unit    :       Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department IV
Country             Paraguay
Sector              Education
Subsector           Vocational Training
B.    Back_round
1.1          Sector DeveloDment Objectives. At the time of project appraisal, Paraguay was in the
midst of an economic recession and the government was focusing on the agricultural/rural sector as
the leading sector for the country's economic recovery. In particular, with special emphasis on the
Eastern frontier areas, the development objectives were to: (a) improve infrastructure and promote
rural development in these areas; and (b) increase the production and productivity of small farmers.
1.2          Policy Context. The government's policy for agricultural development in the Eastern
frontier areas initially concentrated on providing roads to open up frontier areas, promoting
settlements on virgin land through the Institute of Rural Welfare (IBR) and private colonization
companies, and financing special programs such as farmer credit lines, which resulted in a boost in
agricultural production (7.6% growth per year during 1976-81). In early 1980s, however, the
government came to realize that one of the main limitations to growth and low productivity in the
rural sector was due to the lack of structured agricultural skills training for rural farmers and
workers. The deficiency of rural education and training was identified and acknowledged in the then
National Development Plan, which emphasized the issue of human capital development in these
agricultural frontiers.
1.3          Linkaqes between Proiect. Subsector and Macro Policy Objectives. The project was
developed under the government's new strategy towards Eastern frontier areas to integrate training
services with the existing rural development program. It was in line with the government policy to
emphasize the country's agricultural advantage for economic development and would reinforce its
efforts to increase the production and productivity of small farmers in Eastern Paraguay. The
Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP), a semi-autonomous institution created in 1971
(and supported by a Bank loan between 1976-81), which offered technical training for all sectors
including agricultural skills training, was selected to assume the responsibility of developing and
providing new training services to rural farmers and workers.



-2-
C.    Project Obiectives and Description
1.4           Project Objectives. The project aimed at promoting rural development through
improving productivity, income, and self-employment in selected agricultural frontiers (San Pedro,
Canendiyu, and Alto Parana and Itapua) by: (a) expanding and improving SNPP's basic skills
training program for rural families; (b) establishing an integrated rural training package combining
intermediate skills training with technical assistance and access to credit for small-scale farmers and
non-farm entrepreneurs; and (c) strengthening SNPP's managerial, financial, and technical capacity to
train rural workers and to coordinate with other rural service agencies. It would follow national
development priorities and complement actions of other government agencies in the project areas.
1.5           Project Description. The three key components of the project are:
(a)    Expanding SNPP's Basic Skills Training Program. Over a period of six years, SNPP
would train about 13,760 rural workers which corresponds to about 46% of the target group. Some
334 courses would be given consisting of four modules in crops, small livestock production, farm
recordkeeping and home improvements together with the introduction of marketing concepts. The
existing program would be improved with an emphasis on increasing productivity and incomes in line
with local needs.
(b)    Establishing an Integrated Rural Training Package. SNPP would organize a new
training package including intermediate skills training programs, post-training technical assistance,
and access to credit. SNPP would train about 2,600 rural workers in total (about 20% of the target
group) including 1,800 small-scale farmers, 400 non-farm entrepreneurs, and 400 selected out-of-
school youths. Farm training would consist of 90 courses in comprehensive agriculture and livestock
production. Non-farm rural training would contain 40 courses, including upgrading courses in the
production of rural goods and services for rural entrepreneurs, and trading skills courses for out-of-
school youth. SNPP's instructors would assist former trainees in the proper implementation of the
participants' own funding plans utilizing the skills learned. Access to credit would be provided to
participants through either existing credit lines (some 900 loans anticipated) or a Post-training Fund
financed by the project (about 504 loans planned), with the latter to be provided in-kind whenever
possible. SNPP's instructors would guide the intermediate skills participants in developing individual
or group production plans, which would form the basis for determining capital needs and funding
proposals. SNPP would also compile lists of equipment, tools, and other implements likely to be
required for productive projects, and procure them centrally and then hand them over to CAH, a
participating Small Farmer Credit Agency, for distribution.
(c)    Institutional Strengthening of SNPP. The project would provide 40 training courses
and 36 staff-months of fellowships to foster managerial, financial, and technical capacity. SNPP
would carry out 17 studies on SNPP organization, financial sources, course evaluation, and several
technical subjects including project completion. International expert services (72 staff-months) would
be provided for strengthening SNPP's capacity to execute the project and coordinate with other
government entities and rural agencies. In addition, the Government of Spain had agreed to finance
24 staff-months of technical assistance in the fields of training, curriculum development, training
methodology in rural areas and preparation of educational materials. The project would also finance
14.5 staff-years of SNPP counterparts, 15 staff-years of supervisors/technical staff, and
complementary equipment to reinforce the Planning Department and other technical units of SNPP.



-3 -
D.    Project Design and Organization.
1.6           As the project was fully supported by the government's strategy for rural development
of the Eastern frontier areas, the conceptual foundation for the project was sound and clear to the
participants. The project was well prepared by SNPP within a reasonably short time (about 10
months) with assistance from the Bank. However, there were unforeseen lengthy delays in signing
and effectiveness (with an eventual gap of 18 months between Board presentation and Loan
effectiveness); and immediately thereafter for about 20 months, until early 1987, project execution
was seriously hindered due to a dispute between the GOP and the Bank regarding the rate of exchange
to be used in disbursements for expenditures in local currency (which affected execution of all Bank
projects in Paraguay during that period).
1.7           The project was innovative because: (a) for the first time the government was able to
carry out a basic and intermediate skills training program in coordination with rural development
programs on the Eastern frontier; and (b) SNPP, based on its experience in rural training, was put in
charge of designing a new package to provide relevant courses for self-employed small farmers and
rural entrepreneurs, incorporating access to credit and follow-up technical assistance by instructors for
the intermediate-skills-course graduates.
1.8           The organizational structure and the operational relationship of SNPP experienced
major changes after the change of political administration in 1984. The project faced critical
problems when the financial and administrative autonomy of SNPP was transferred (from Project
effectiveness until October 1989) to the Ministry of Justice and Labor due to civil service
politicization and rigid bureaucratic regulations. As a result, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
was rendered ineffective, and was not fully staffed until 1990. After firm Bank intervention,
including technical assistance financing its preparation, a new organic law (Ley 1265 passed in 1987,
but not implementable for about 2 years) finally restored autonomy to SNPP and execution improved
significantly thereafter in terms of organizational matters, disbursements, and attainment of physical
targets. The strengthened SNPP was then able to better define its role and responsibilities by working
closely with Bank staff supervision missions during this critical period. The input of the Bank
missions was instrumental in restructuring and restoring the project.
E.    Proiect Implementation
1.9           Critical Variances in Project Implementation. Main gaps between planned and actual
project implementation appear in the elapsed time required and in project subcomponent execution.
(a)    Elapsed Time. As mentioned above, due to the initial unforeseen delays in project
start-up caused by the protracted national legislative process of obtaining signature and effectiveness,
disputes about the rate of exchange, and civil service politicization, execution of key project
components was pushed behind schedule by about 30-36 months. Despite these delays, execution of
the basic and intermediate farm and non-farm skills training programs and the training of SNPP staff
later proceeded well, and, with the exception of the 11 % shortfall in the number of basic skills
trainees, all achieved or exceeded the planned targets.
(b)    Proiect Subcomponents. The untested Post-training Fund presented SNPP with the
greatest challenge, since new arrangements needed to be established with the Credito Agricola de
Habilitaci6n (CAH) for provision of subloans to the intermediate-skills-course graduates. In



-4 -
particular, the process of elaboration, approving the credit manual, and procuring farm equipment,
tools, and implements for use as credit in-kind greatly slow down the implementation of this
subcomponent. As a result, only about 33% of the planned number of farm credits, and 60% of the
non-farm credits were executed. Another main variance is related to the area of studies. Because of
the initial unexpected long delay, the timing and relevancy of proposed studies and technical
assistance were in doubt, and needed adjustments were introduced to the project by SNPP in
consultation with the Bank. Finally, civil work was extended to include construction of three new
subregional offices, and the fellowship program experienced one of the longest delays because of lack
of information on relevant external sources. The project experienced relatively few procurement
problems, though there were serious concerns relating to the new procurement regulations being
established in Paraguay around 1985 which made procurement process very slow and cumbersome.
(c)    Project Cost and Financing. There was a saving of US$1.2 million in the total cost,
mainly due to the exchange rate fluctuations. The total cost of the project was US$6.6 million instead
of US$7.8 million planned.
1.10         Proiect Risks. The Staff Appraisal Report correctly anticipated these risks: pilot
nature/experimental approach in the Post-training fund; possible delays in implementing new training
courses; needs to revise course content, orientation and methodology; coordination and timely
cooperation with rural institutions; and lastly, shortfall in counterpart funds. The latter has had the
most adverse impact on the project's implementation in terms of the manner in which the Ministry of
Finance's new regulation temporarily halted release of earmarked funds to SNPP (e.g., freezing
SNPP budget by up to 40% in 1990). The extent of the start-up delays and the unavailability of
counterpart funds were not fully envisaged either by the Bank or by SNPP.
F.    Project Results
1.11         PrjQect Ojiectives. At the completion of the project, the three objectives of the
project were basically achieved quantitatively and qualitatively. These objectives remained intact even
though the execution schedule was delayed by 1.5 years and lasted seven and a half year (versus the
planned six years from Loan effectiveness to Closing). The relevancy of the project output was
verified during the Completion mission from discussions among the various participating
governmental/non-governmental agencies, local NGOs, industry group leaders, and selected training
courses and credit participants. These final successes bear witness to the Borrower's commitment and
ownership of the project, and to the competency of the PIU.
1.12         Impact of the Proiect. Most of the physical targets of the project were met or
exceeded, albeit with some delays. However, the lack of an ex ante baseline study on the income
level of the participants and ex post evaluation built into the project at appraisal makes it difficult to
investigate the question of project success or failure. While the long-term effects of its training
programs and the quality improvement are difficult to measure precisely, given the absence of ex ante
and ex post assessment and other reliable evaluation and tracer studies during implementation, specific
aspects of the results and findings are presented below:
(a)    Basic Skills and Intermediate Farm and Non-farm Training. The Basic skills program
had served to improve farm productivity and raise income levels for those who participated in the
courses. For example, it was mentioned by the Institute of Rural Welfare officials that the courses
awakened the farmers to the possibilities of other means of improving farm practices, other market



-5-
potential, and the need for additional training. Discussions with course instructors and participants
revealed that the course content and delivery methods could be further improved by having better
interactions and communications among all the involved parties, e.g., the Basic skills course could be
expanded to include more than the same four modules by taking local conditions and needs into
consideration, and Intermediate courses need to be more comprehensive, especially in costing and
marketing. With two members per family required to enrol jointly in the basic course, SNPP
estimated that about 50% of the Basic skills training and less than one-third of the Intermediate skills
training beneficiaries were women. The course size has halved, from a planned 41 trainees per
course to about 21, reflecting a 77% increase in the number of courses given.
(b)    Post-training Fund for Intermediate Farm and Non-farm Training. Through project
closing, 217 subloans were made totalling $393,841.76 (or, an average of $1,815 per loan in cash).
The balance of the project loan proceeds spent, amounting to about $524,325, is in the form of farm
equipment, tools, and implements purchased in accordance with project specifications (with only an
important part still on deposit with SNPP's warehouses in the Regional Centers). However, SNPP is
considering the possibility of using this equipment in its own training center, mobile unit and
cooperative training programs. This came about because of two reasons: subloan recipients often
preferred cash/voucher than in-kind form; and the procurement process significantly contributed to the
late equipment delivery. There were other problems: (i) the approval of subloans did not take full
account of the family income level of the applicants-participation in the Intermediate training was the
sole criterion, and in some cases, better off farmers and urban dwellers were given credits while other
much poorer settlers were denied credit, hence contributing to inequity; (ii) the approval of loan
applications had taken a long period with cases of over four months not uncommon and this was
because all applications had to be sent to Asuncion for review/approval. In addition, disbursement to
recipients sometimes took even longer; and (iii) CAH reported that the overall recovery rate of the
subloans was about 20%, which is no different than for other credit lines. This low percentage is
caused by the inability of local CAH officials to supervise effectively the subprojects due to the great
distance involved in new settlements, lack of incentives for local CAH units to attempt recovery (the
6% commission for CAH to manage the subloan was retained at the CAH Headquarters), and no
provision made to compensate local CAH staff for extra services and activities. On the other hand, it
might have been appropriate to extend the subloan credit access program to cover the Basic-skills-
course graduates (e.g., with maximum of $1,000 per trainee versus $4,000 for the Intermediate
graduates) to meet their needs for small credit to increase production and productivity. The idea of a
revolving fund was discussed many times (during project preparation and later), but never executed.
(c)    SNPP Institutional Strengthening. The institutional capacity of SNPP has been
strengthened as a result of the project through staff training and fellowship programs which exceeded
the targets by 337% and 47%, respectively, showing the importance given by SNPP to staff training.
This is further evident in the following: between January 1990 to January 1993, there were just two
Bank supervision missions while the PIU was able to manage effectively independently and disburse
60% of the loan proceeds; up-to-date administrative, financial, and accounting information were
readily produced by SNPP on all aspects of its training activities using computerized databases and
software, thus aiding in the management decision-making process; and comments from private sector
and local NGOs interviewed are generally favorable regarding the quality of the trainees and the
relevancy of the courses. Through the excellent relationship built up during project implementation
with participating private sector/NGOs, SNPP was able to overcome one of its main weaknesses in
the past, which is its inability to compete and collaborate effectively with outside, local training
service providers. These strengthened relationships and valuable experience provide SNPP with the



-6 -
necessary tools and reasons to implement its new policy of articulation with the private sector and
NGOs, and to support the successful "cooperating centers" program ("Centros Colaboradores," a
contribution of the German aid agency, GTZ), facilitating its increased influence and presence of
SNPP in implementing vocational training policies at the national level.
(d)    Studies. The execution of the studies was greatly modified in response to changing
priorities, e.g., the needs to strengthen institutional aspects and to elaborate new laws. The technical
assistance provided was instrumental in improving SNPP's internal efficiency and in drafting new
legal regulations and procedures to restore autonomy to SNPP. It also allows SNPP to prepare a
proposal for expansion of its activities in training technicians and mid-level personnel, in line with the
MERCOSUR challenges and in close coordination with the Ministry of Education and the private
sector. This proposal has been submitted for external financing, including by the World Bank. The
technical assistance service of the experts and their output were generally of acceptable quality.
However, a Mid-term Post-training Fund evaluation study done in 1988 (when there were few actual
subloans executed) could have been useful if performed again at end-1989 to provide guidelines and
improvements to avoid loan recovery problems. Non-executed occupational/evaluation/credit/market
studies might have contributed to further focus SNPP's priority. Additional studies could have been
done on SNPP's internal efficiency, to review its use of resources against output (unit cost
comparison), likely evolution of its budget and funding, and other potential cost-saving measures.
(e)    Coordination with Rural and Agricultural Organizations and the Ministry of
Education. In addition to CAH and within the scope of the project, SNPP has reached agreements
with various public and private organizations and the Ministry of Education's Technical Training
Department on collaboration of efforts in serving the training needs of the rural population, which
would otherwise be overlooked by the existing service providers due to lack of resources and/or
focus. Through one specific agreement with a local NGO, SNPP was able to provide courses to teach
low-income group how to maintain/manage natural resources.
(f)    Civil Works. The project financed the expansion of boarding facilities by 120 places
in two centers, and the remodeling works of three subregional centers added during project
implementation. From observations made during the PCR mission, it appears that the boarding
facilities built under the project could be better utilized to their limits of the capacity.
1.13         While it may be too early to assess the full impact of the project, it is safe to indicate
that there has been positive impacts: in the human capital development at the Eastern frontier areas;
in introducing new farming practices; in improving the earnings of most of the course participants; in
provision of new and better maintained training facilities; in improving the quality of SNPP training
course through better prepared instructors, enhanced teachers materials and improved SNPP ability to
deal with the private sector; and in strengthening a number of the participating agencies (e.g., SNPP,
CAH). The project has made it possible to strengthen SNPP's ability to deal with the agricultural
sector.
G.    Project Sustainability
1.14         The key to the sustainability of the vocational training program rests with SNPP's
ability to obtain adequate recurrent financial resources in future years. Since SNPP derives its
funding from an earmarked 1 % payroll tax levied on the manufacturing and service sectors, its
financial position appears to have improved significantly in the past few years, and the operation of



-7 -
the PIU has now been absorbed into the day-to-day operations of SNPP with no immediate financial
difficulty anticipated. However, as happened in 1990 when public sector agencies' funding was
restricted, the Ministry of Finance was able to halt release of budgetary resources (earmarked fund
and Special Account access) to SNPP. Hence, it is important that SNPP also enjoys political support
from the administration by strategic responses to the emerging national priorities.
1.15         The concerned government authority has indicated strong support for SNPP's
activities, in anticipation of including vocational training as priority in the National Development Plan
under preparation. Agricultural training in particular and human resource development in general
were mentioned as priorities especially in the framework of MERCOSUR, since Paraguay would need
to exploit fully its comparative advantage in agriculture. As a result of the project, SNPP is prepared
to enter a new phase of its development due to its better relationship with the users, its improved
technical capability, and its better internal procedures. Specifically, SNPP can establish a more
flexible technical and vocational training framework by: (a) facilitating cooperation among
government, labor and employers; (b) establishing an accreditation system; and (c) improving quality
through training standards, labor market information, monitoring and evaluation.
H.    Bank Performance
1.16         Strenahs and Weaknesses. Bank involvement in the project preparation and appraisal
stages benefited from our past experience with SNPP's first operation and thus greatly contributed to
project concept and design. However, in retrospect, the extended discussion on the idea of a Post-
training Fund to provide technical assistance and access to credit to course participants during
appraisal proved insufficient, in light of the subsequent unexpected delays in Loan signing and Loan
effectiveness, and the further period of inactivity caused by the dispute on rates of exchange to be
used on local expenditures. New procedure on implementation of the Post-training Fund subloan
component was not finalized until 1989 in response to poor execution of the fund. This innovative
component should have been prepared better and had it been pilot-tested in the absence of prolonged
delays, its chance of being successful would have been greater.
1.17         The Bank fielded two supervision missions prior to Loan effectiveness and conducted
a project launch seminar soon after. This attested to the amount of interest the Bank was having in
seeing this project executed properly. From project preparation through to supervision and closing,
this project enjoyed an unusual continuity in Bank staff assigned to prepare, appraise and supervise
the project. However, the frequency of Bank supervision missions slacked off at about the same time
(1987/88) that the project was re-activated and disbursements improved. From that point to closing,
only one mission per year was fielded and, on average, only 5.0 staff-weeks were expended yearly.
It could be argued that if more resources and missions had been conducted, the Bank would have been
able to assist better the Borrower to respond in a more timely way to the problems faced in the
implementation of the Post-training Fund subloan program. In particular, the procurement of
subloans in goods (farm equipment, tools, implements) could have been redirected towards other
mechanism more efficacious thus avoiding both the procurement issue and the residual problem of
what to do with the in-kind goods procured.
1.18         On the other hand, the Bank was flexible in accepting the Borrower's suggestions in
reallocation of loan proceeds, modifications to the studies and fellowship programs, additions of new
civil works, and extensions of the closing date. On the whole, this flexibility and continued close and
effective dialogue with the Borrower contributed to the ultimately successful outcome of the project.



-8 -
Apart from the Special Account, which the Ministry of Finance was slow in processing, no major
disbursement issues were encountered during the project.
I.     Borrower Performance
1.19          Strengths and Weaknesses. Overall performance with regard to both project
preparation and implementation by SNPP was acceptable. Despite a series of changes in SNPP's
organizational and management structures brought about by a new Administration, the PIU was
progressively strengthened and proved to be effective in managing the execution of the various
components of the project. The major shortcomings in Borrower performance were of a financial,
political, and managerial nature. The Borrower encountered serious problems in meeting conditions
of project effectiveness because of lengthy legislative requirements; later, problems with exchange
rates and counterpart funds further slowed project execution. This resulted in the need to extend the
Closing date of the loan twice for a cumulative extension of 30 months. An unresolved civil service
politicization of SNPP nearly compromised the viability of continuing with the project.
J.     Lessons Learned
1.20          The following lessons for the Bank and the Borrower on design, organization, and
implementation may be drawn:
(a)    The Borrower's ability to meet counterpart fund requirements was identified as a
potential risk during appraisal, but turned out to be more serious than anticipated. A
Country Implementation Review together with discussion on procurement procedures
would likely identify key constraints and be useful in guiding implementation of future
projects, in light of the recent re-activation of lending to Paraguay after a long lapse.
(b)    This project was critically affected during the change of administration, which
introduced unforeseen civil service politicization and bureaucratic controls. The
weakened SNPP affected the start-up of the project. It shows the importance of not
being held hostage to the political process and of having a PIU fully funded by the
project. Also, a competent and experienced PIU would have improved project
management significantly and moved the project forward (except for those periods
when financial resources were not forthcoming). Successful project performance
seems to require a strong and effective PIU that is capable of operating independently.
(c)    The inclusion of a credit line in a vocational training project can have a great impact,
although the experience here shows that this component must be fully tested before
appraisal, and it is important to conduct a careful assessment of the capability of the
credit agency. In particular, if credit were to be given, it is advisable to avoid
providing credit in-kind. Also, a credit line should have as its selection criterion a
targeting mechanism to improve equity and increase opportunity for the poor. For
future projects, technical and financial assistance to peasants should be provided by
the same institution in order to develop productive activities that also facilitate
increases in income.
(d)    When a component such as the Post-training Fund began to experience difficulties,
more timely management attention and technical assistance resources could have been



9-
applied to try rectifying and redirecting its operation (e.g., to revise incentives for
regional CAH to better supervise the subloans provided to the Intermediate-skills-
course graduates, streamline loan review/approval procedures to allow decentralized
approval and disbursement of credits, attention to credit recovery, and so on.).
(e)    Course content and delivery methodology could be further improved by: (i) having
better feedback from instructors and participants, and better dissemination of
experience (good or bad) among regional directors, course instructors, and
participants alerting others to potential pitfalls and failures; (ii) increasing the duration
of the basic rural training course to have a more permanent impact on the trainees;
and (iii) doing follow-up and evaluation of the course no later than six months after its
completion. Highly specialized intermediate training courses may need to be
contracted out to the private sector (e.g., Union Industrial Paraguaya, non-
governmental/community groups) to deliver, with SNPP retaining the policy and
technical support role.
(f)    For better monitoring, targets should be established in advance for the use of physical
facilities to minimize the possibility of under- or over-utilization, that could lead to
wastage or other problems. In addition, boarding facilities could be better utilized by
organizing pre-employment training for young rural participants, or by establishing
agreements with other institutions (secondary schools under the Ministry of Education)
to use center facilities.
K.    Project Relationships
1.21         Bank-Borrower Coordination and Performance. Bank relations with the Borrower and
SNPP during the project have been good and based on mutual professional respect-this despite the
disagreements that emerged temporarily over financial policies and concerns over civil service
politicization. Relationships with other participating units, such as UNDP, GTZ and the Government
of Spain, were in the best interest of the Government's project goals.
L.    Consulting Services
1.22         A total of about 70 staff-months of consultant services were provided by the project
for institution strengthening, evaluation of training courses, establishment of legislative framework,
and so on. In general, they were considered appropriate, timely, and of acceptable quality. One
exception, the Mid-term Post-training Fund evaluation study, was of limited use when it was
completed too early. Also, additional studies neeed to be commissioned to analyze management areas
for further efficiency improvements.
M.    Project Documentation and Data
1.23         The Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement provided a sufficiently clear
framework for project implementation and comparison of the project outcome. With the progressive
computerization of the project databases and increased uses of advanced computer software, the PIU
maintained very good recordkeeping that facilitated the preparation of the supervision missions' Aide
Memoires and the Project Completion Report. The Project File in the Bank's LAC Information
Center was well-organized and adequate for the preparation of this PCR.



- 10 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Prepared by the Borrower)
2.1          The Second Vocational Training Project was to be started in 1985, but due to
differences between the World Bank and the Central Bank of Paraguay regarding the rate of exchange
to be applied, it was not begun until 1986. The first activities were concentrated on the execution of
the Technical Assistance (TA) component by means of a TA Agreement with UNDP, and on the
acquisition of materials and equipment for the courses.
2.2           The cost of the project was estimated at 7.8 million dollars, of which 5 million were
from the IBRD, 2 million from SNPP (Servicio Nacional de Promoci6n Profesional) and 0.8 million
from the Ministry of Finance. The final costs show that US$6,620,680 were spent: US$4,598,044
from the project funds and US$2,022,636 from the national counterpart.
2.3          The completion of the project was scheduled for June 30, 1990, but this date was
postponed to June 30, 1992 due to SNPP financial difficulties to execute the project, delay in
acquiring the expected equipment, and the changes in SNPP management whose responsibilities were
handled by the Ministry of Justice and Labor until October 1989. In view of these difficulties and in
order to achieve the anticipated goals, SNPP requested and obtained from the World Bank a new
closing date for the Project, which was moved to January 31, 1993.
2.4          It was anticipated that the project would be executed in five years, however it lasted
seven and a half years. During that time SNPP experienced a series of changes in its organization
and management which, to a certain degree, also contributed to delays in executing the project.
However, the Bank's timely support plus TA and the supervision missions contributed to the
maintenance of continuity and efficiency by SNPP in handling the project.
2.5          Only minor problems occurred in the execution of civil works, with the exception of
the excessive delay in awarding them due to the (procurement) system in force in Paraguay. The
supply of equipment did not present great problems either.
2.6          SNPP considers that TA was successful due to the quality and competence of the
employed experts and consultants, and having received it at the proper time. TA was a determining
factor in SNPP's institutional strengthening, both in the technical as well as in the administrative
areas. With regards to fellowships, the lack of information on the part of foreign institutions and
agencies had a bearing on the delay in executing this component.
2.7          The execution of the planned courses and the number of persons trained were attained
without difficulty due to SNPP's experience in this field, thus exceeding the expected goals. The
project contributed to a major presence of SNPP in dealing with the agricultural sector.
2.8          The project contribution was significant in assisting SNPP to implement its new policy
of coordination with the private sector, and strengthen its actions with the support of the cooperating
centers (Centros Colaboradores). The project also made it possible for the preparation of an
Institutional Development Project to define the line of actions to meet the challenges of MERCOSUR.
Said project is presently being reviewed at the Government level for its application in external



- 11 -
operation and bilateral cooperation.
2.9           The granting of credits to the course graduates presented the major difficulties of this
project, as expected, due to SNPP's lack of experience in this type of activity. However, the
organization of the Trust Fund Board between CAH and SNPP, and the establishment of regulations
and procedures, were important achievements. The greatest difficulties occurred in the interior
(frontier settlements) due to the delay in securing information by the Regional Credit Committees.
Both SNPP and CAH acquired valuable experience to improve this type of activity in the future. This
experience confirms the need to associate vocational training with TA and financial support.
2.10          Another of the difficulties faced regarding credit was the obligation of the
Government to subject external financing to the General Budget regime, which greatly hampered the
availability of funds and the corresponding transfers to CAH. In the future, the acquisition of goods
under the Post-training Fund must take into account the difficult restrictions, both legal and
administrative, that delayed even more the execution of this component.
2.11          The reception given to the project by its beneficiaries was excellent, and the interest
shown by the population where activities were developed was evidenced by the project's great impact
in the adoption, modification, and improvement of agricultural practices in the settlement areas.
2.12          The Project Implementation Unit, created to handle all aspects of the project, has
made it possible for employees of all levels to have a positive experience in financial, technical and
planning aspects, which has contributed to tackle new programs and activities.
2.13          Relations between SNPP and the Bank have been agreeable and consistent, and there
was always prompt answers to problems as they were submitted. With reference to financial aspects,
no difficulties were met in the matter of disbursements.
2.14          The Bank missions have greatly contributed to clarify aspects related to the project,
and in that respect, their assistance has been valuable in the correction of errors and in the
comprehensive analysis of project execution, which made it possible to correct the direction, create
new goals, establish priorities and develop policies according to the progress of the project.
2.15          Finally, the project enabled the consolidation of SNPP work in the affected areas
based on educational and institutional strengthening through providing modern equipment, training
instructors abroad, and a smooth working relationship with the Bank.






- 12 -
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit No.                                    Year of
Project Title        Purpose                       Approval Status    Comments
Cr. 347-PA      Assisted Government to carry out    1972    Closed in Completed on time.
First Education   secondary education reform to make        1979      Performance was
Project         subsector more responsive to changing                 good.
socio-economic needs.
Ln. 1252-PA     Assisted Government to expand       1976    Closed in Cost/time overruns
Second          vocational training by enhancing            1981      within expectation;
Education       capacity of National Vocational Training             main objectives
Project         Service and increasing training                       were achieved.
opportunities in urban/rural areas.
Ln. 1346-PA/    Assisted Government to expand       1976    Closed in Satisfactory
Cr. 667-PA      opportunities in primary education in       1982      completion, with
Third Education  rural areas and lower secondary                      one year extension
Project         education in semi-rural towns by                     of closing date, and
providing new schools, starting a school             savings of US$1.0
nuclearization program, providing                    million.
textbooks, and teacher training.
Ln. 1992-PA     Assisted Government in expanding rural  1981    Closed in Quantitative
Rural Primary    nuclearization program, building rural     1988      objectives reached,
Education       primary schools and teacher training                 but with extension
Project        institutes, establishing adult training                of Closing date 2.5
program, teacher in-service training, and            years; also US$3.2
curriculum for primary and lower                     million (19%) of
secondary grades, and improving                      loan cancelled.
education management.



- 13 -
B.    Project Timetable
Date                Date                Date
Item                    Planned              Revised             Actual
Identification                 n.a.                 n.a.              7/18/82
Preparation/pre-
appraisal                    10/10/82              n.a.              12/11/82
Appraisal Mission             1/22/83               n.a.              2/7/83
Loan/Credit
Negotiations                 3/28/83              5/9/83             11/16/83
Board Approval                5/17/83             6/14/83             1/03/84
Loan/Credit
Signature                      n.a.                n.a.              7/09/84
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness               June 1984            11/09/84            7/15/85
Loan/Credit Closing           7/31/90            7/31/92 *          01/31/93 **
n.a. = not available      * First extension          *  Second extension
Comments on Project Timetable
3.1          Initial stage of project was prepared on an accelerated basis, given that the project
originally was perceived as ready for execution. However, after project approval, there was an
18-month gap between Board Approval and Loan Effectiveness (effectiveness date was extended three
times). Loan Closing date was extended twice for a total extension of 30 months.



- 14 -
C.    Loan Disbursements
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
Bank's       FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Fiscal Year
Appraisal
Estimate       0.4     0.8     1.4    2.4      3.4    4.3      5.0       -       -
Actual           -       -    0.1      0.5     0.7     1.7    2.6      3.9     4.4     4.6
Actual as %
of Estimate      -       -       7      21     21       40      52      78      88      92
Date of Final Disbursement:  October 22. 1992, disbursement no.  112
Comments on Loan Disbursements
3.2          Because of delays in signing and effectiveness, disbursements only began in mid-1986.
Soon after Loan effectiveness (7/15/85) to beginning of 1987, disbursements and project execution
were hindered seriously because of a dispute between the GOP and the Bank regarding the rate of
exchange to be used in disbursements for expenditures in local currency (which affected execution of
all Bank's projects in Paraguay at that time). Project execution and disbursements significantly picked
up after 1988/89, when a new SNPP Law (Ley 1265) was approved in late 1987, SNPP Board of
Directors established as a result, and new regulations issued restoring SNPP's financial and
administrative autonomy. The Bank's Disbursement Unit had recovered the balance of the Special
Account due the Bank, and is expected to close the Porject's Loan Account by the end of October,
1993.



- 15 -
D.    Project Implementation
PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Planned         Actual          Months
Project Component                            completion      completion      of delay
Training Programs
Basic Skills Courses                      12/89           07/92            31
Agriculture and Livestock Courses         12/89           07/92            31
Rural Artisan Courses                     12/89           07/92            31
Productive Projects
Execution                                 12/89           12/92            36
Evaluation                                12/89           12/92            36
Training of SNPP Technical Staff
Managers                                  06/89           12/91            30
Supervisors                               06/88           12/91           42
Instructors                               12/87           12/91           48
Civil Works
Award of Contracts                        12/84           08/91           80
Construction                              12/85           01/93            85
Furniture and Equipment
Lists, Specifications, Documents          12/84           03/89           51
Competitive Bidding and Evaluation        06/87           06/89            24
Distribution                              12/88           12/92           48
Technical Assistance
Expert                                    12/87           12/91           48
Consultants                               06/88           03/91           33
Fellowships                               06/88           01/93           55
Studies
Evaluation                                12/88           07/88           - 6
Appropriate Technologies                  12/88           05/89             5
Comments on Project Implementation
3.3          The big differences in implementation were: (a) in civil works due to the
reprogramming in 1990, including the construction of three subregional offices (Concepcion, Salto del
Guaira, and Yatytay); (b) delays in implementation of the fellowship subcomponent because of lack of
information on relevant external sources; and (c) equipment procurement because of slow local
procedures and inexperience in the Post-training Fund.



- 16 -
E.    Project Cost and Financing
Project Costs
(US$ '000)
Appraisal Estimate a/  Actual   b/    Difference as
Project Component           Amount   %          Amount   %           % of Appraisal
1. Civil Works             235.9      3        253.9      4             + 8
2. Equipment              1,135.9    15        769.3    12              - 32
3. Vehicles                405.0      5        428.3      6             + 6
4. Materials              1,044.1    13        889.5    13              - 15
5. Staff and Local
Consultants          2,446.5    31       2,094.0    32             - 14
6. Post-training Fund     1,112.8    14       1,484.2    22             +33
7. Technical Assistance
and Fellowships        905.8    12        650.4    10              - 28
8. Studies and Staff
Training               548.2     7         38.6      1             - 93
9. Front-end Fee             12.5     -         12.5      -               0
TOTAL PROJECT COST    7,846.7   100          6,620.7   100              - 16
a/ Including contingencies.
b/ Data as of March 1993, Ayuda Memoria, Annex 19 (SNPP).
Project Financing
(US$ MILLION)
Difference as
Source of Funds                               Planned     Final   % of Planned
IBRD                                            5.0        4.60        - 8
SNPP                                            2.0        1.88        - 6
Government                                      0.8        0.14       -82
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             7.8        6.6        - 16
Note: Other funds used in the Project include 24.5 staff-months of technical assistance from Spain.



- 17 -
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$)
Original     Revised      Actual       Difference as % of
Category                    Allocation    Allocation  Disbursement   Orig.  Rev.Alloc.
(9/1989)
(1)   Civil Works            165,000      218,000     196,982       +19    - 10
(2)   Equipment, Field     1,645,000     1,855,531   1,803,945      +10    - 3
Vehicles, Spare
Parts and Materials
(3)   Salaries of            650,000      650,000     646,899      -0.5    -0.5
SNPP Staff
(4)   Post-training Fund Part B.3
(a) Subloans in-kind  548,000      935,000    676,256       +23    - 28
(b) Other Subloans    187,000           ..    241,912       +29
(5)   Technical Assistance,  465,000      724,000     648,287      +39    - 10
Consultant Services
and Fellowships
(6)   Project Administration    255,000   305,000     371,296       +46     +22
(7)   Front-End Fee           12,469       12,469      12,469        0       0
(8)   Initial Deposit in     300,000      300,000       3,074       a!      a!
Special Account
(9)   Unallocated            772,531            0          0       n.a.    n.a.
TOTAL                5,0000000                4.601118       - 8     - 8
11/ Gain/loss due to exchange rate fluctuations relating to the Special Account.
Conuments on Project Cost and Financing
3.4          By component, more SNPP and government monies were used in the Post-training
Fund, and very little in completing the Studies. Moreover, SNPP source of funds decreased by 6%
conpared to the appraisal plan, while the Government's fund totaled only $0.14 million, an 82% drop
from appraisal.



- 18 -
F.    Proiect Results
Direct Benefits
Appraisal      Estimated at    Diff.as %
Indicators                       Unit            Target        Closing Date    Appraisal
Basic Skills Training Program     # of workers     13,760         12,218           -11
# of courses       334            590          +77
Intermediate Skills Training
.Agriculture                  # of workers      1,800          1,901          + 6
.Non-Farm Rural               # of workers       800           1,601        +100
# of courses       130             190         +46
Apprenticeships      -            969          New
Post-training Fund                # of credits - Farm   316          103           -67
- Non-farm        188            114           -39
SNPP Staff Training               # of participants  229             664        +190
# of courses        40             43           +8
# of staff-hours   33,780      147,456        +337
Technical Assistance
.Expert Services              Staff-months        72              70           - 3
.Fellowships                  Staff-months        36              53         +47
Studies                           #of studies          17             10          - 41
Technical Staff Salaries
.Instructors - Obj. #I        Staff-years         92             132         +43
.Improve teaching materials   Staff-years          6               6            0
.Instructors - Obj. #II       Staff-years         65            53.5          - 18
.Professional services        Staff-years         26              30         + 15
.Coordination - Obj. #111     Staff-years        14.5             15          +3
.Supervisors/technical staff  Staff-years         15              16          +7
Physical Facilities
.Boarding                     # of places        120             120            0
.Remodeling Centers           # of centers         2               2            0
.New Subregional Offices      # of centers         0               3         New
Equipment
.Vehicles                     # of vehicles       13              17         +30
.Training Materials and Tools    % of completion    100          100            0
.Agric. Machines              % of completion    100             100            0
.Office Communications        % of completion    100             100            0



- 19 -
Studies
Impact ot Study
Purpose / Title                              Status           or Comments
1. One Occupational study (continuously by      Incomplete       Due to project delay and
SNPP's Planning Department)                                      change of priority.
2. Evaluation studies: (a) Evaluation of the Socio-   Two completed   Study (a) was instrumental
economic Impact of the courses; (b) First                        in modifying the Basic
evaluation of the Basic Skills Training (03/88).                 Skills program and the
Four other studies were not completed.                           Post-training Fund; while
(b) had no impact due to
change of administration.
3. Credit and Marketing studies: Actual and     One completed   Completed study was the
Potential Demand of Goods and Services of the                    basis for designing of
Second Vocational Training Project. Second study                 Project's credit component.
was not completed.
4. Two Cash Crops studies                       Incomplete       Not needed.
5. Appropriate Technology studies: Use of Petit  One completed   Assistance to a Micro-
Grain to produce Eucalyptus. Second study was                    enterprise.
not completed.
6. Two Food Conservation studies                Incomplete       Studies deemed not needed.
7. Diagnostic of the Organizational Structure and  New study     Basis for the elaboration of
its Adjustments.                                                 new Law 1265/87.
8. Elaboration of (a) the new law and (b) the new  Two new       Basis for restructuring of
regulations that modified Law 253/71 that created  studies       SNPP and facilitating the
SNPP.                                                            implementation of the law.
9. Rural Development Program of Training and    New study        Expansion of Basic Skills
Production in the Alto Parana Department.                        program to northern zone.
10. System of Tracking and Control of Documents    New study     Creation of a Central
in the Central Archives.                                         Archives and improvement
of information management.
Comments on Project Results
3.5          Except for the credit subcomponent and studies, most physical targets were either
reached or exceeded, although with long delays due to the delayed start-up and implementation of the
project. Of the planned 17 studies, 10 were completed (inclusive of the new studies and the
Borrower's Project Completion Report).



- 20 -
G.    Status of Loan Covenants
Section    Subject                                    Status of Compliance / Remarks
3.02       Use of qualified training, management, and  Complied.
financial consultants.
3.05       Prepare/furnish to the Bank, no later than July   Complied.
1, 1987, a report on the execution of Part B.3
(Post-training Fund) of the Project.
3.06(i)    SNPP's Organizational Structure and Budget    Completed in January 1, 1987.
Procedures study, due to the Bank by December
31, 1985.
3.06(ii)    Study to identify long-term funding sources to   Study was not needed because of
finance SNPP's rural training activities, due to  change of events.
Bank by December 1, 1987.
3.09       The Borrower shall ensure the availability of    Complied; however, for 20 months, the
foreign exchange needed for the acquisition of   project was stopped because of lack of
Project goods and services.                agreement on exchange rate to be
applied.
3.11       The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until Complied.
the Project has been completed, within SNPP a
Project Implementation Unit.
4.02(a,b)   The Borrower shall maintain separate records    Complied.
consistent with sound accounting practices.
4.02(c-i)   Appointment of external auditors to audit  Complied.
Project records and Special Account for each
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles.
4.02(c-ii)   Copy of certified Audit Reports send to the  Complied, albeit with delays of one to
Bank within six months following the end of    five months in four of the six Audit
each FY (December 31).                     Reports.



- 21 -
H.   Use of Bank Resources
Staff Input
(S/IW*)
Stage of     FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93
Project Cycle
Preparation   28.7   -    -
Appraisal    35.6  5.4    -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -
Negotiations  -    9.4    -     -      -      -     -      -     -      -
Supervision   -    6.8   9.7   10.9  6.2   6.5   3.0   12.6  5.0   1.2    1.6
Completion   -     -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -      3.4   16.1
* Staff-week.
Note: FY93 Completion time includes 1.0 staffweek spent in FY94 on closing of the Special
Account, on Form590 Review, and on making adjustments to the PCR to reflect final changes.



- 22 -
Missions
Stage of            Month/       No. of    S/W in  Specialization Performance  Types of
Project Cycle        Year       Persons    Field    Represented    Rating    Problems
Identification        7/82         2         3.0       a,b
Preparation           8/82         1         0.4       b
Pre-Appraisal        10/82         5         10.4      3a,2b
Appraisal             2/83         3         8.4       a,b,c
Post-appraisal        9/83         1          1.0      a
Sub-total                               23.2
Supervision  1        4/84         3         4.8       a,b,e         2         F,M
Supervision 2         9/84         1         2.0       a             2         F,M
Supervision  3        9/85         2         2.0       a,c           2         F,M
Supervision a/        1/86         2         2.0       b,c           3         F,M,P
Supervision 4         6/86         3         3.0       a,2b          2          F,M,P
Supervision 5        11/86         3         3.2       a,2b          2         F,M,P
Supervision 6         5/87         2         3.0       a,b           2         F,M,P
Supervision  7        3/88         2         2.0       b,c           2         M,F,P
Supervision  8        8/89         2         2.8       b,c           2         M
Supervision  9        6/90         3         3.0       b,c,d         2          F
Supervision  10       5/91         1         0.8       b             2          F
Sub-total                               28.6
Completion            3/93         3         5.0       b,c,f
Total                                   56.8
a/ Project Launch Seminar and limited supervision mission.
Specialization:  a = Education Planner/Economist;   b = Vocational Training Specialist;
c = Agricultural Training Specialist;  d = Architect;
e = Financial Specialist;            f = Operations Officer.
Performance:   1 = Problem-free or Minor problems;  2 = Moderate problems;
3 or 4 = Major problems.
Types:        F = Financial;     M = Managerial;    T = Technical; and  P = Political.






IBRD 17186
57 -*                               515'                 APRIL 1963
BOLIVIA
PARAGUAY
r~~>   BRAZIL  -21    SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(  21(                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21-
!A,*o0/ Mol                            *   SNPP Centers          0  Cities and Tons
P !_                                           Ongoing Rural             Notinonol Capitaol
CmDevologrnt Pro ects    Selected Road%
/                 ~~~~~~~~E Is Norte
El*  Este                Rivershe
\  > s    6   )   (     Alto Parono Conendiyu  M-  - Derteonr Boundorshi
A                     ,                                             --Irr,,Internationol Boundories
I i__/,>           t      ~-        .                                                             22'22
2 2-
ARGENTINA        7
59*                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pedro Juon Co!balleIro
s       ^~~~~39.          5 'i                                 9
t                     R~~~~~~~~~~~~CONC EPC ION   L   s       !       B  R  A  Z  IL  
2 3                                                            \\
PRESIDENTE                                                                                          23 /
Pozo Colorodo                        (_
\                   L'     SAN          .2         f,,.
,,                    \HAYES               (             ,m.                      *.            j
24'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
<   <  Son P dect  t    t   t)Ygotimi  aSSlto del Guoiro
& s < SToc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uora                                    Ad T - 
-25'                                                                              ALTO
>wCORDItR   /AAGUAZ6     
I                     AS         UNCI6N  C     Iocup6                              E NANOAPAAC
0    20   40   60,    MILES           C (    Pr  ri
VdaIn R          ARAN
0       50       100 KILOMETERS                         loric|
-26'                                                                         PARANC  ,                         26
AAZAPA
A R G E N T I N A
utES          ITAPaA                                 . m __   ,__
-27'   ZNEEMBUCU  .......  \         >          @- A Is   .flO                        2
W_ -  *  o Th.  278
(5z2r                                  5L6'              ,25A
s^|( ~~~ >..   Enbcg c n                              .P  aon. 
5s9              sr                j               56               55  s             545



