Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.4609-PA
PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
November 29, 1983
Project Department                                                 Q 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office                                          IV 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Un:it = Guarani (G)
Official Exchange Rate US$1 = G160
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF AB3BREVIATIONS
BNF       -  National Development: Bank
CAB       -  Small Farmer Credit Agency
EAP       -  economically active population
IBR       -  Rural Welfare Instil-ute
IDB       -  Inter-American Deve-Lopment Bank
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fur W:Lederaufbau
SEAG      -  Agricultural and Livestock Extension Service
SNPP      -  National Vocational Training Service
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
Jantuary I to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents                                   Page
I.    INTRODUCTION .................................... , .1
II.  AGRICULTURAL TRAINING NEEDS ................................                           2
A.   Overview  ...............................................                        2
B.   Government Investment Strategy  .........................                       2
C.   Future Government Plans  ................................                       3
D.   Issues  .................................................                       a
III. THE PROJECT  ................................................                         11
A.   Overview  ...............................................                      i;
B.   Objective  1:  Expanding and Improving a Bacic Skills
Training Program  .......................................                      11
C.   Objective 2:   Establishing an Integrated Training
Package for Small-Scale Farmers and Non-Farm
Entrepreneurs  ..........................................                      12
D.   Objective 3:   Strengthening SNPP's Institutional
Capacity to Train Rural Workers and to Coordinate with
Other Rural Services  ...................................                      17
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ................................                       21
A.  Overview  ...............................................                       21
B.   Project Costs  ..........................................                      21
C.   Financing  ..............................................                      24
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ................           ..      ..................       25
Overview ......                                                                     25
Project Administration  .....................................                       26
Procurement  ................................................                       26
Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ..........................                       26
State of Readiness  .........................................                       27
Disbursements  ..............................................                       27
Accounting and Auditing Procedures  .........................                       28
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited Paraguay in
February 1983. The mission consisted of Jose Dominguez (Education Planner,
Mission Leader), Luis Pisani (Vocational Training Specialist), and Jacomina
de Regt (Rural Development Specialist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                                           Page
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................................   29
Benefits .....................................................   29
Risks ........................................................   29
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................  30
TABLES
2.1  Target Population and Annual Training Requirements by Sex and
Training Level for Selected Frontier Areas ...................   7
2.2  1980 Total Enrollment and Graduates ..........................    8
3.1  Training Output per Region and Year for the Basic Skills .
Training Program .............................................   12
3.2  Projected Annual Output of the Intermediate Skills Training 
Program ......................................................   14
3.3  Expected Demand for Credit Resources by Course Graduates .....    16
3.4  Summary of T'raining Program for SNPP Personnel ....      ...........  18
3.5  Summary of Technical Assistance, Fellowships and Studies .....    19
4.1  Project Costs by Project Objective ...........................  21
4.2  Project Costs by Category of Expenditures ....................  22
4.3  Unit Cost Comparisons ........................................   23
4.4  Expected Increases During Implementation .....................  23
4.5  Loan Categories' Amounts and Percentages to be Financed .......   24
4.6  SNPP Revenues and Counterpart Funds ..........       ................  25
5.1  Disbursement Schedule ........................................   28
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Credit Resources Earmarked for Sraall Farmers
3.   Skills and Tasks Included in Course Content
4.   Equipment by Program and Subcategory
5.   Training Program for SNPP Personnel
6.   Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
7.   Implementation Schedule
8.   Documents in Project File
MAP



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank has supported vocational training in Paraguay since 1976.
The First Vocational Training Project 1/ assisted the government to expand
vocational training for the formal sector of the economy through the Servicio
Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP), Paraguay's semi-autonomous
vocational training agency. The project provided SYPP with:
(a) the training capacity of about 1,000 student places in four new
fixed training centers (Chore, Coronel Bogado, Coronel Oviedo and
Hlernandarias);
(b) two mobile training workshops 2/ and related equipment for the
training of about 1,500 students annually;
(c) the expansion of its headquarters and two training centers in
Asuncion (545 student-places); and
(d) technical assistance to strengthen its management and advisory
service to enterprises.
1.02      The Project Performance Audit Report (April 1, 1983) indicates that
the project was successful in expanding training opportunities for the modern
formal sector. However, the report concluded that:
(a) the phvsical facilities could support more training activities
because they are underutilized, especially during the day-time;
'b) training provided through mobile units in rural areas for small
communities was successful, despite design limitations on the two
mobile training workshops;
(c) additional technical assistance could have improved SNPP's
administration, planning and design of training modules, but these
aspects were not analyzed during appraisal; and
(d) delavs in the recruitment and staffing of counterparts in the
project unit made program assistance less effective and weakened
the institution building effect.
The Bank Group has also supported rural development through
Z:inancinq of five rural development projects since 1975. All five projects
are located in the Eastern Frontier areas. 3/ However, none of these
orojects included skills training proRrams. Bank support for agricultural
and rural development is expected to continue with a proposed rural
development project in the Departments of Itapua and Alto Parana Sur, also in
the Eastern Frontier.
1/  Loan 1252-T-PA for US$4.0 million was approved on May 4, 1976, and closed
on April 27, 1981.
2/  Large truck trailers with benches, tools and electrical generator.
3'  Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project (Cr. 509-PA, closed in
1981); Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1418-PA) in Itapua;
Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA) in Eje
Este: Caazapa Area Deve'opment Project (Loan 2087-PA); and Eje Norte
Rural Development Project (Loan 2141-PA).



-2-
1.04      The government has now requested further assistance in the training
of rural workers in the agricultural frontiers.  Such assistance would expand
and improve rura:L training opportunities and would:
(a)  further the sectoral objectives of Paraguay's priority economic
sector---agriculture;
(b) address structural and institutional rural training issues,
particularly in relation to the training of self-employed workers
in the agricultural frontiers; and
(c)  introduce new technological training packages and the necessary
inputs to ensure that objectives are accomplished.
Furthermore, the estimated costs of the proposed assistance are reasonable,
counterpart funds are expected to be available, steps have been adopted for
the project's successful implementation, and specific measures have been
taken to minimize risks.
II. AGRICULTURAL TRAINING NEEDS
A. Overview
2.01      During the past decade the growth of the agricultural sector in the
Eastern Frontier areas has been impressive. This has been actively supported
by the government through investments in rural roads, creation of new
settlements and investments in institutions for agricultural credit and
extension. The government plans to continue this support, but in addition
has identified rural training as one of the priority areas for further
investment.
2.02      The growth of the agricultural sector has been impressive (7.6% per
year for the sector as a whole, including 8.2% for crop production, during
1976-81). During that period, due to high export prices for cotton and
soybeans, the gross value of crops in constant prices increased by 56%. The
increase in crop production (an average of 20% per year for both crops) was
achieved mainly through expansion of t:he cultivated area.  From 1975 to 1980,
Paraguay's cultivated lands increased by 880,000 ha, or approximately 120%.
This was achieved, mainly, by opening up and settling new lands in Eastern
Paraguay, which has resulted in migration of small farmers from the Central
Region and of Brazilian immigrants to Eastern Paraguay. The growth of the
rural population in the Eastern Frontiers has been about twice the national
average (2.5%) over the last 20 years, sparing Paraguay the serious problems
associated with migration of rural poor to the cities. The importance of the
agricultural sector can also be seen from the following data: in 1981,
agricultural value added accounted for 30% of GDP; the sector provided
employment to some 500,000 or 45% of the 1.1 million people in the labor
force; and it accounted for 85% of registered export value and nearly 90% of
estimated actual exports.
B. Government Investment Strategy
2.03      The government facilitated this impressive growth of the
agricultural sector from 1970 to 1981 through its investment strategy.
Government investments concentrated initially on providing roads to open up



-3-
the frontier areas, promoting settlements on virgin land through the
Institute for Rural Welfare (IBR) and private colonization companies, and
financing special programs in the agricultural sector, such as farmer credit
lines or rural development projects.  Government investments in
infrastructure represented almost half the public investment budget in
1976-81, amounting to about US$310 million, in constant 1977 dollars.
Government budget allocations for the agricultural sector, including IBR's
budget of about US$4 million annually, increased by 116% in real terms
between 1977 and 1981. The investments in the five rural development
projects under implementation in Eastern Paraguay amount to US$195 million.
2.04      The results of this investment strategy are noteworthy.  Major
trunk roads link production areas with Asuncion, and feeder roads facilitate
the opening of virgin lands to production. Experience shows that whenever
roads have been built or improved, production has increased, because the
roads provide farmers with access to markets, facilitete competition between
sellers of inputs and buyers of farm products and reduce prices by reducing
transportation costs.
2.05      IBR has been responsible for organizing 83% of the establishment of
550 new settlements or colonies since 1960, comprising 6 million ha and some
109,000 lots. As a result, some 5,000 new farms per year have been
established, most of them in the frontier of Eastern Paraguay. In theory,
IBR has been responsible in this process for an array of tasks, including
land distribution, provision of titles, organization of production, credit,
marketing and social services, promotion of cooperatives and industrializa-
tion. In practice, IBR limits itself to distribution of public lands. The
magnitude of the colonization process and the deficiency of its organization
are such that by 1981 IBR had only provided titles for about 12% of the lots,
while 54% were under adjudication and 34% had no legal claims. This affects
farm development, because land titles are a condition for obtaining agricul-
tural credit.
2.06      Government investment strategy in the agriculture sector has
resulted in the growth of the extension service, availability of special
credit lines (i.e, six credit lines for small farmers, see Annex 2), and
increase in research activities. Many of these new activities have been
financed through rural development projects in areas characterized by a high
concentration of small farmers and high production potential. However, such
rural development projects (with the exception of Paraguari in Central
Paraguay) have not included special farmer training programs to complement
those services provided by the agricultural extension service.
C. Current Perspective and Future Government Plans
2.07      This decade of sustained economic growth came to an abrupt halt in
1982. After decelerating towards the end of 1981, GDP fell by 2% in 1982,
value added in the agricultural and industrial sectors declining by 3% and 5%
respectively. The aim of the government's strategy for the Eastern Frontier
areas is still to increase the production and productivity of small farmers
and to improve infrastructure, colonization, rural development and, more
recently, education and training. The investments in the agricultural sector
would be in ongoing programs and projects, one new credit line for small



- i -
farmers and livestock, and at least one new rural development project. The
National Development Plan also acknowledges the qualitative and quantitative
improvements needed in rural education and training services to achieve the
goals of the Plan, and it has identified rural training programs as a
priority.
D.  Issues
2.08      In order to make rural trainjing effective in selected frontier
areas, the government must confront the following issues:
(a) training programs are not yet: incorporated in the government
investment strategy to achieve higher agricultural productivity and
production;
(b)  the existing training programs are insufficient; and
(c) existing programs are not yet: integrated with other rural services.
These three issues are discussed in sequence below.
1. Training is not Incorporated in Government Strategy
2.09      At present, the government's investment strategy to achieve higher
agricultural productivity and production does not yet include training
programs. The strategy is based on the assumption that provision of capital
and infrastructure would increase productivity. This strategy has worked for
a small proportion of the population; however, limitations to human capital
constrain further development. Training of the rural population could
contribute significantly to improving t:he situation. This rural population,
especially farmers and rural entrepreneurs, would benefit from both basic
skills training and training at an intermediate level.
Lack of Basic Skills
2.10      About 65% of farmers 4/ in Eastern Paraguay have low productivity
as measured by their low incomes. With appropriate training in basic skills,
these families would be able to increase their productivity and production.
Income data for 1981 from the Eje Norte area show that net income per capita,
including family consumption, was aboul US$130 for farms of less than 15 ha
(about one-third of the farms), 5/ and about US$270 for farms between 15 and
30 ha (about two-thirds of the farms). Income data for other areas show
similar results. In 1977 USAID 6/ est:imated that 54% of rural families had
incomes below the poverty line (less than US$300 per capita per year).This
proportion of the population has smaller farms, speaks mostly Guarani, has
low levels of education and skills and has no access to capital because it
does not possess land titles. The 1977 USAID study showed that 82% of farm
families with less than 5 ha were below the poverty line, versus only 33% of
those with more than 5 ha.
4/ This corresponds to the number of farms with less than 10 ha (1981
agricultural census data), which were shown to have low incomes.
5/ IBRD Report No. 3792-PA.
6/ Judith Fincher Laird, "Rural Women in Paraguay: the Socio-Economic
Dimension," USAID, 1979.



- 5 -
2.11      The same USAID study showed that farm families that were
monolingual in Guarani could be expected to have lower than average incomes.
The reasons for this correlation are manyfold and inter-related, but two
aspects are important: (a) there are no sources of information which would
enable monolingual (Guarani) speakers to become informed of market trends,
prices, etc.; and (b) even if such sources existed, only the educated middle
and upper class Paraguayans read Guarani fluently: most farmers are
illiterate in either Guarani or Spanish. The average level of schooling for
the adult rural population is 2.7 years of primary school.  In 1977, 22% of
the adult population had not had education, and up to 86% of the remainder
had not completed primary school.  Only about 9% hard completed primary
school, and only 5% had received some secondary schooling. Training takes
place on-the-job, from father to son, mother to daughter. The low levels of
education limit the ability of farm families to acquire new knowledge and
skills, either through their own initiative or through organized training
activities.
2.12      Finally, most small farmers lack access to capital because they
lack land titles. About 88% in IBR settlements do not have titles (para.
2.05). Landownership is correlated with higher incomes in the USAID study.
The non-landowners, with generally lower incomes, have difficulty generating
enough surplus to make the 20% down payment required to initiate the process
of obtaining a land title and credit.
2.13      With training in basic skills, these families would be able to
increase their productivity and production. For instance, knowing how to
construct chicken coops with locally available materials would enable
families to reduce losses. Training in growing vegetables would improve
family diets and could generate a surplus for sale. Training in seed
selection and seed storage techniques could improve crop yields. Other
examples in which training in one or more basic skills would remove important
bottlenecks, and result in increased productivity, are listed in Annex 3.
Lack of Intermediate Skills
2.14      About 12% of farmers in selected frontier areas possess land titles
and have access to credit. However, even these farmers do not have the
intermediate skills to raise their production and productivity, which USAID
estimates to be about half the average productivity for the continent. In
addition, as farmers' production increases, the demand for consumer and
producer goods and services, such as the production and repair of farm
implements, increases. It is estimated that about 30-40% of rural
entrepreneurs would profit from increased opportunities to improve their
skills and access to new technologies in order to increase the quantity and
improve the quality of their outputs.
2.15      Most farmers use rudimentary technology because they de not own or
know how to use modern implements. In Eje Norte, 90% of the farmers clear
forests manually, which limits them to less than one additional hectare per
season; 80% prepare the soil manually, which limits the area under
cultivation to about 5-6 ha per family. With credit, farmers would be able
to purchase land clearing services, farm animals and implements, which would
enable them to prepare larger areas. With training, farmers would learn
about rotation, soil preparation and weeding techniques which would enable
them to cultivate cleared areas better. Production would increase, as would
productivity per hectare and worker.



- 6 -
2.16       Other examples illustrate the importance of access to more
intermediate skills.  The national average yield for soybeans is 1.5 ton/ha,
while Brazilian immigrants in Eastern Paraguay with higher levels of skills
and access to credit and technical assistance are able to harvest 3.2
ton/ha. Similarly, yields for cotton average 870-1,500 kg/ha in the Chore
area; farmers in the same area have been able to harvest up to 2,800 kg/ha
when provided with credit and intensive technical assistance by the extension
service, supported by special assistance from German experts in the field.
2.17       Increases in agricultural production increase the demands for
non-farm goods and services.  For instance, the demand for better houses
requires better trained carpenters, masons and brickmakers. Similarly,
farmers' demand for silos to store their increased production, requires
carpenters with skills in silo construction. Or the increased use of
electrical pumps, small generators, etc. requires electrical repair services,
now only being provided by repair shops in the cities. Government
investments, such as the rural water supply program, also demand skilled
workers.
2. Rural Training Programs are Insufficient
2.18      At present, almost no rural training programs exist at either the
basic or the intermnediate level, because their importance has not been
recognized until recently by the goverment (para. 2.09) and the target
population is not organized to request training.  Thus, the demand for such
training had remained unquantified, and institutions that could supply
appropriate training, such as SNPP and the Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Service (SEAG), had not acquired the resources to supply the
demand. Estimates of the demand show that in selected frontier areas, it may
be as high as about 3,000 people per year for basic skills; and about 1,500
people would require training in intermediate farm and non-farm skills (Table
2.1). SNPP offers one basic level training program to 60 rural youths
annually. At the intermediate level no programs are given. The training
provided by SEAG is not of sufficient depth to be called intermediate level
skills training. These arguments are discussed below.
2.19      Table 2.1 shows the target population and estimated annual training
requirements by sex for selected frontier areas. These estimates are based
on the composition of the labor force, the present level of skills and the
level of skills required in the future. Detailed and reliable surveys of
rural occupations and training demands by types of skills, however, do not
exist. The total target population for basic skills training is about
30,000 i.e., number of farmers, between 14 and 49 years of age, established
in plots of less than 10 hectares; for intermediate skills training some
14,600 people. The target population for intermediate skills training is
further divided into those requiring farm and non-farm skills. The target
for intermediate training in farm skills is limited to about 7,000, or 15% of
the economically active population (EAP) in the agricultural sector in
selected frontier areas. This corresponds roughly to those presently
possessing titles. The target group for non-farm skills is about 7,600,
representing about 30% of the EAP in the non-farm sector. This corresponds
to the proportion of the EAP requiring intermediate level skills to operate
small businesses. The assumptions for 1the annual training requirements are
based on the need to train the target population in basic and intermediate
skills within a period of about ten years.



- 7 -
Table 2.1 TARGET POPULATION AND ANNUAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS BY SEX
AND TRAINING LEVEL FOR SELECTED FRONTIER AREAS a/
Annual
Target Population    Training Requirements
Male   Female  Total   Male   Female  Total
Basic Skills b/               19,400  10,600  30,000  1,940  1,060   3,000
Intermediate Skill
Farm c/                   4,500   2,500   7,000    450    250        700
Non-Farm d/               4,400   3,200   7,600    440    320        760
a/ Project area of Eje Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 2141-PA),
Departments of Alto Parana and Canendiyu and the North of the Itapua
Department.
b/ Number of farmers engaged in agriculture between 14-49 yrs. old and with
farms of less than 10 hectares; and annual training requirements of about
10%.
c/ Farmers engaged in agriculture between 14-49 yrs. old and possessing land
titles; and annual training requirements of about 10%;
d/ About 30% of EAP engaged in non-agricultural sector's, between 14-49
yrs. old; annual training requirements of 10%.
Source: Mission estimates.
Training Supply
2.20      SNPP is the only institution active in basic training, offering two
small bi't successful programs. At the intermediate level, the Ministries of
Education and Agriculture and SNPP offer urban-based courses for those
employed in the formal sector (Table 2.2). There are no skills training
programs for self-employed small farmers and rural entrepreneurs.
2.21      SNPP, created in 1971, has the legal mandate to provide
professional and specialized technical training for all sectors, at all
levels: basic skills, semi-skilled training and specialized technical
training. Funding comes from a 1% payroll tax levied on the modern,
manufacturing and services sectors. As has been traditional in this type of
institution until recently, the initial aim of training activities was to
meet vocational and technical skills requirements in the modern sector,
mostly in manufacturing. However, in 1976, with USAID funding, SNPP started
a modest rural basic skills training program. Its charter was modified in
1977 to include, among other functions, managerial training and assistance to
business enterprises in managerial and related training matters, In 1980,
SNPP started a two-year training course for rural youth in its Chore center.
In 1981, SNPP trained 5,760 workers in 260 courses. Of these, 1,350 were
rural dwellers (34 courses). Training was conducted mostly through mobile
units, and aimed at those formally employed in the agricultural sector (e.g.,
foremen and tractor drivers at large farms, operators in dairy cooperatives).



- 8 -
Table 2.2 1980 TOTAL ENROLLMENT AI'D GRADUATES
Institutions               Sector         Grade    Enrollment   Graduates
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Basic Vocational Schools       Industrial
Commercial         7-9        2,600         290
Diversified Cycle                                10-12        1,280        280
Technical Schools;                               10-12       1,260          90
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Basic Schools                 Agriculture/
Forestry          7-9          850         360
Secondary Schools               '                10-12         790         210
Agricultural and Livestock   Agricultural/    Farmers a!
Extension Service         Livestock
MINISTRY OF LABORt (SNPP)
Regional Centers              Industrial/
Commercial/        Skilled
Agriculture        Workers      3,650      3,450
a/ Occasional farmer meetings and half day demonstration seminars; maximum
of 50,000 farmers receive approximately 15 hours' service per year.
2.22      Basic Skills Training Programs.  SNPP's basic skills training
program for commtnities operates in the Paraguari Rural Development Project
in Central Paraguay. It reached about 1,500 participants in 1982. In this
program SNPP instructors teach 40-hour modules in four areas (agriculture,
livestock, home improvements, and recordkeeping). The courses are taught
during the evenings (about three to four hours) so people can attend after
work. SNPP has dleveloped a methodology whereby teams of four instructors
define, with the assistance of community leaders, the specific content of
courses. The content of each module reflects the problems currently
experienced by faLrm families in that community, including the climate and
ecological conditions pertaining to t!nat region. Examples of these problems
are: appropriate seed selection and storage; fertilizer selection, alterna-
tives and use; increasing animal production by timely sterilization and
weaning, disease control, etc.; selection of crops for marketing and home
use, including nutritional considerations for the latter; and basic records
on operations (ArLnex 3 includes a list of common skills included in the
program). After the definition of content, instructors develop or adapt
instructional materials as needed and teach all four modules. These
instructors then train local leaders who, under their supervision, use the
modules to train others. The courses are weak in marketing concepts and do
not include findings of appropriate technology research which could easily be
applied by rural families. Also, the time to develop or adapt instructional
materials is long (four to six weeks) because of a shortage of audio-visual
and printing equipment in SNPP's headquarters.



-9 -
2.23     The rural youth course (60 graduates per year) is based on ten
months of training in the Chore center, followed by one year of carrying out
a productive project at home with SNPP instructor guidance.  Trainees apply
the skills learned, e.g., to raise chickens, open a dressmaking shop, grow
and sell onions. No data on the income gains realized are available yet.
2.24      Intermediate Level Skills Training Program.  Other than SNPP's
small training program for the formal agricultural sector (para. 2.20) SEAG
is the only institution that attempts to provide farmers with intermediate
level skills training and technical assistance. However, because of its very
nature, the extension service cannot be expected to provide either
broad-based or in-depth training. It concentrates instead, appropriately, on
bringing specific advice to farmers, which it can only do selectively
--selectively both as to particular problems and regions. Thus, the
extension service apparently reaches only about 20% of the farmers in
Eastern Paraguay (45,000-50,000 farmers) at present 71. The recipients
farmers live mainly in areas where rural development projects operate and
most are credit recipients. In such areas extension agent would seldom be
able to spend more than 15 hrs/year/farmer. This would include meetings,
drawing up of farm plans to assist obtaining credit, farm visits to supervise
the use of credit and demonstrations of farm methods. As a result the
extension agents provide farmers with technical assistance 8/, but this can
not be characterized as systematic training, and imparting of in-depth
knowledge and skills for the recommended technological packages.
Furthermore, the extension service requires strengthening. Most extension
agents are young; have received only secondary agricultural education, but no
specific training as extension agents; and lack practical experience. They
also lack transport. Extension methods only recently began to comprise
training of groups, as well as of individuals. 9/ In addition, research
results which have been proved to be economically viable are seldom available
to extension agents in formats in which they can be communicated directly to
farmers. Therefore, farmers often are not convinced that the information
provided by the extension agents will increase the profitability of their
operations. In summary, the technical assistance programs offered through
SEAG can be best described as complementary services to trained farmers; and
these services, too, require improvements under other programs.
3. There is Lack of Integration of Training with
Other Rural Services
2.25      As described earlier, key factors to enable farmers to increase
productivity and production are:  access to intermediate skills, credit and
technical assistance (para. 2.16). However, no programs offering all three
components exist. Two of the component programs exist: credit and technical
assistance by SEAG (para. 2.24). SEAG's role has been discussed just above.
Credit is discussed below.
7/ In 1981, SEAG had 105 district offices (103 in Eastern Paraguay) and 347
extension agents. The existing average of 144 farmers per extension
agent is quite a normal ratio compared to worldwide figures. The target
ratio however is one agent per 80-100 farmers.
8/ In 1981, about 7,000 farmers who lived in the selected frontier areas
mentioned in Table 2.1 received such technical assistance.
9/ There is, moreover, a limit to the use of group procedures in extension.
This extension, even when optimally delivered, will be a relatively high
cost operation compared to well-organized training programs.



- 10 -
2.26      Agricultural credit programs reach only a limited proportion of
farmers.  Credit is mostly available from the National Development Bank
(BNF).  In 1981, BNF lent about US$99 million: 91% for working capital and 9%
for investment capital. Of this amount:, 55% went to small farmers (less than
50 ha). In the largest category of beneficiaries (10-30 ha), the average
farm size was about 19 ha; 74% of the beneficiaries owned their land
outright, which reflects the emphasis on land titles as a requirement for
obtaining credit.  BNF also has a credi't line for rural industries, but the
beneficiaries are medium and small sca:Le industries. Small rural
entrepreneurs, often without clear tit:Les to the premises they occupy, do not
qualify for this credit line. Other available credit lines for small
entrepreneurs (through the National Housing Bank and the Economic Development
Fund) do not reach rural entrepreneurs either.
2.27      Some credit is available from the Small Farmer Credit Agency
(CAH). CAH is a government-owned, autonomous financial institution. In
1982, CAH lent about US$2.3 million for this purpose to 4,559 borrowers in
1982, consisting mainly of short-term production credits, to small-scale
farmers (7-25 ha) who, lacking land titles or other collateral, were not
eligible for institutional credit. CAH's charter allows it to provide credit
to all rural workers, including rural non-farm entrepreneurs, and it has a
small entrepreneur credit line. This credit line was about US$40,000 in 1981
and benefited 61 artisans. In recent -years CAH has had a loan recovery rate
of over 85%. Its administrative costs are high because it provides loans in
such small amounts (average loan of US$;365 per farmer in 1979).
2.28      In the selected frontier areas about 5,600 farmers out of a total
of about 132,000 have been able to obtaLin credit under the various available
credit programs (Annex 2). Most of this credit has come from BNF, for which
land titles have been required.
2.29      Even if intermediate skills training programs were to be made
available along with these (insufficient) credit programs, mechanisms still
would not exist to organize or improve coordination of the three components:
intermediate skills training programs, technical assistance and credit
(para. 2.25).
2.30      If adequately strengthened, SNPP could provide the requisite basic
training programs and also improve the coordination of provision of
integrated training packages because it has:
(a)  the lega.L mandate to provide training to workers for all sectors
(para. 2.21);
(b)  a decentralized structure with training centers in the agricultural
frontier areas (e.g., Chore and Hernandarias);
(c)  two small training teams  experienced in providing basic rural
training programs (para. 2.22);
(d)  experience using a methodology of mbile instructor units which
could be applied elsewhere (para. 2.21);
(e)  experience in determining precise training needs; and
(f)  adequate, flexible instructor training programs.



- 11 -
SNPP is also financially independent, has semi-autonomus status and has on
its Board of Directors representatives of all the major Ministries involved,
including Agriculture, Education and Planning. Such representation would
facilitate coordination with other agencies working in the rural areas.
However, SNPP would need to develop the organizational, financial and
technical capacity to provide basic and intermediate level programs, and to
assist in the coordination of integrated training packages.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Overview
3.01      The proposed project would assist the government, over a period of
six years, to improve productivity and production in selected agricultural
frontiers of Paraguay by:
(a) expanding and improving a basic skills training program for rural
families;
(b) establishing an integrated rural training package, which would
combine intermediate skills training with technical assistance and
access to credit for small-scale farmers and non-farm
entrepreneurs; and
(c) strengthening SNPP's institutional capacity to train rural workers,
by reinforcing SNPP's managerial (para. 1.02), financial and
technical capacity to provide rural training and coordinate these
activities with other rural agencies.
3.02      Three regions in the Departments of San Pedro, Canendiyu, Alto
Parana and Itapua have been selected for the project (see Map) because:
(a) they are agricultural frontiers where the government has
already concentrated other investments such as credit, extension
services and rural development projects; 10/
(b) settlers are Paraguayans who have resided in the area for at least
five years, but have low productivity and have experienced minimal
or no income gains (para. 2.10); and
(c) there are two existing SNPP regional centers (Chore, in the
Department of San Pedro, and Hernandarias, in the Department of
Alto Parana), which serve as training bases for the settlements in
those regions.
B. Objective 1: Expanding and Improving a Basic Skills Training Program
for Farm Families (Proposed Outlay: USS1.4 million)
3.03      In order to increase productivity and production among the rural
population, SNPP would expand its basic skills training program (paras. 2.13
10/  Examples of these investments are: (a) Eje Norte Rural Development
Project (Department of San Pedro; Loan 2141-PA); (b) Canendiyu/Alto
Parana, in which a small IDB-financed rural development project is
located and another is under preparation; and (c) the area of Alto
Parana/Itapua, where a rural development project is almost completed
(Loan 1418-PA) and a second is under consideration.



- 12 -
and 2.22).  Under the project SNPP would train a total of about 13,800 rural
workers, about half of them women, in 330 courses over a period of six years
(Table 3.1).  This corresponds to about 46% of the target group (para.2.19).
In order to deliver these courses, the project would finance salaries for
instructors and supervisors, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance.
Table 3.1 TRAINING OUTPUT PER REGION AND YEAR FOR THE
BASIC SKILL TRAINING PROGRAM
Region            1984   1985   1986    1987   1988   1989   1990  Total
San Pedro                 640   1,280  1,280  1,280  1,280                    5,760
Alto Parana N. Canendiju                  640  1,280  1,280  1,280    640  5,120
A.Parana S. Itapua Norte                                 640  1,280    960  2,880
TOTAL   640   1,280  1,920  2,560  3,200  2,560  1,600 13,760
3.04      The courses would consist of four modules in crops, small livestock
production, farm record keeping and home improvements. The existing program
(para. 2.22) would be improved by focusing on means to increase productivity
and incomes. Marketing concepts would be added to all modules. Courses
would last 50 hours each. At least two members per family would be invited
to participate, with each member having the opportunity to attend two
sequential modules.
3.05      The project would finance 92 instructor staff-years.  SNPP would
have to recruit 12 new instructors. Difficulties in recruitment are not
anticipated because SNPP's salaries are competitive (about US$635 per month,
compared to US$400 per month for an extension agent). All instructors would
receive courses in training methodology and production techniques (Annex
5), because the environmental and climatic conditions of the frontier regions
would be new for them in most cases. The project would also finance five
four-wheel-drive vehicles for the five instructor teams, five pickup trucks
to carry implements and two motorcycles for supervisors. In addition, the
project would finance tools and sufficient materials for practical
instruction, equipment to supplement SNPP's existing audiovisual and printing
units (para 2.22) and to install those services in the two centers (see Annex
4) and six staff-years of professional services for the improvement of
teaching materials.
C. Objective 2: Establishing an Integrated Training Package for Small-Scale
Farmers and Non-Farm Entrepreneurs (Proposed Outlay US$3.1 million)
3.06      In order to improve production and productivity of rural land
owners, entrepreneurs and selected youi:h, SNPP would establish an integrated
package which would include intermediate skills training programs,
post-training technical assistance and access to credit. SNPP would train
about 2,600 small-scale farmers and rural entrepreneurs in comprehensive farm
production techniques and in the provision of rural services which are
necessary for the success of small-scaLe farming. These rural services would
include the extraction and utilization of timber, power saws and their
maintenance, specialized rural construction, transportation and marketing.
The non-farm groups of trainees would include already-established, non-farm
entrepreneurs and selected out-of-school youth.



- 13 -
3.07      The project's instructors would also provide post-training
technical assistance to facilitate the application of newly acquired or
upgraded skills.  In addition to instructors salaries the project would
finance stipends, literacy programs, technical assistance, improvements to
physical facilities and equipment. The project would also provide financial
assistance to acquire working capital and equipment necessary to implement
production plans through existing credit lines and a newly created
post-training fund.
Intermediate Skills Training Programs
3.08      SNPP would provide farm and non-farm intermediate skills training
programs for rural land owners, entrepreneurs and selected out-of-school
youth. The rationale for, and descriptions of these programs are discussed
below.
3.09      Crop and Livestock Training.  The proposed project would provide
small-scale farmers with the levels of knowledge and skills necessary for
effective use of modern agricultural technology in the Paraguayan setting.
SNPP would give 90 courses, lasting from 154 to 240 hours each, to train
about 1,800 farmers in comprehensive agriculture and livestock production
techniques (Table 3.2). This corresponds to 26% of the target population
(para. 2.19). About one-fourth to one-half of the participants would be
female. The training courses would be selected on the basis of: (a) the cash
crops or animals grown in the region, (b) the probability of available
markets for the products, (c) the existence of a profitable investment model
in the proposed crop/animal farm, and (d) the availability of credit. About
45% of the courses would cover cash and food crops (cotton, tobacco,
soybeans, corn, beans); 35% would cover livestock; and about 20% would be
determined during the life of the project (e.g., for such promising, but not
yet exploited, crops as pineapple and peanuts). Training would
systematically cover all aspects of the crop cycle (from soil preparation to
harvesting) or of animal husbandry management (e.g., feeding, reproduction,
marketing, etc.). Crop courses would be given in short segments (from a day
to a week) during the agricultural cycle by instructors in the farming
settlements. This would enable instructors to teach a skill at the
appropriate time during the agricultural season, and it would enable
participants to apply these skills immediately in their own situations.
Courses in livestock, lasting from five to seven weeks each, would be given
in the two SNPP training centers on a full-time basis, because participants
would need to be exposed to animal care practices which usually are not
available in the field. The livestock courses would generally be offered
during the off-season for crop production to enable farmers to attend.
3.10      Non-Farm Rural Training.  Because non-agricultural activities
contribute significantly to the economies of rural areas (para. 2.17), SNPP
would provide non-farm training programs to support and respond to the
increases in production and incomes at the farm level.   These programs would
train about 400 rural entrepreneurs and 400 out-of-school youths (Table 3.2)
in the production of rural goods and services (e.g., rural carpentry,
brickmaking, electrical installations and repairs, mechanical installations
and repairs, plumbing, mechanical forest clearing). This corresponds to
about 10% of the target population in non-farm skills (para. 2.19). Taking
into account that the non-agricultural activities which support agricultural
development are mostly carried out by men, most of the courses offered would
be attended by men only, and the percentage of the target population trained
would increase to about 25% of the male population. Existing entrepreneurs



- 14i -
would receive upgrading courses, while out-of-school youth would receive
training in all aspects of the trade. The program would comprise 40 courses
ranging from 180 to 280 hours each over a five to seven week period. The
criteria for course selection are: (a) t:he frequency of demand for the
services in rural areas; (b) the profitability of the trade; (c) the
availability of financial resources; and (d) the possibility of creating
small associations for the production of goods and services. These courses
would be given on a full-time basis in the Chore and Hernandarias centers.
Table 3.2 PROJECTED ANNUAL OUTPUT OF THE INTERMEDIATE SKILLS TRAINING
PROGIAM
Region                    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   Total
San Pedro
Farm                           140    160    160    140    100    -0-         700
Non-Farm                        60      60      60     60      60    -0-      300
Alto Parana Norte/Canendiyu
Farm                                   160    200    200    140    -0-        700
Non-Farm                                60      60     80    100    -0-       300
Alto Parana Sur/Itapua Norte
Farm                                                  100    140    160       400
Non-Farm                                               60      60     80      200
TOTAL  Farm                       140    320    360    440    380    160   1,800
Non-Farm                   60    120    120    200    220        80     800
No. of Courses                     10     22      24     32      30      12     130
Source: Mission estimates.
3.11      Participants.  Participants in the integrated training programs
would be: (a) small-scale farm owners, (b) rural entrepreneurs, and (c)
selected out-of-school youths.  All would have to be permanent residents in
the area, have basic literacy and numeracy skills, and be at least 18 years
old. Participants would be selected on the basis of their ability to meet
conditions to gain access to credit. As a specific requirement for the
agriculture and livestock courses, the participants would have to have
experience in agricultural production and access to land. For the
entrepreneurs attending upgrading courses, participants ought to be working
in the trade and have the basic equipment necessary to develop productive
projects and to meet existing credit conditions.   For the non-farm courses,
the out-of-school youths would be selected on the basis of their relative
aptitudes for specific trades. In order to ensure that these youths would
find employment after they learn the trade, they would only be accepted in
the courses if the settlement in which they live or a worker in the trade
sponsors them.
3.12     Instructors and Educational Materials.  The project would finance 65
staff-years of instructors, and 26 staff-years of professional services for
technical support and supervision of instructors and the improvement of
instructional materials. All materials would be adapted from the present
level aimed at participants with at least eight years of schooling in
Spanish, to the proposed level of basic literacy and numeracy (about three to



- 15 -
four years of education). Written materials would be kept to a minimum, so
that instructors can teach mostly in Guarani, using some materials and many
visual aids with Spanish texts.
3.13      Stipends.  The project would provide resident participants in
livestock and non-farm courses (a minimum of 70 courses) with free board and
room and a small stipend of about US$6-7 per week to compensate families for
foregone income.
3.14      Literacy Program.   SNPP would identify potential participants who
are functionally illiterate and arrange for the Ministry of Education to give
three-month courses at night in the settlements. This would enable these
potential participants to achieve the basic literacy and numeracy required
for entering the intermediate skills training program. The project would
finance these courses. A letter of understanding between SNPP and the
Ministry of Education on this matter was presented to the Bank before
negotiations.
3.15      Physical Facilities.  In order to accommodate residential
participants (paras. 3.09 and 3.10), the project would finance the expansion
of boarding facilities in Chore from 80 to 140 places. In Hernandarias, the
project would finance the construction of new boarding facilities for 60
people. These facilities would enable SNPP to raise its utilization of the
centers to about 75%.
3.16      Equipment.  The project would finance supplementary equipment and
spare parts for the existing workshops in the Hernandarias and Chore
centers,as well as materials for practical instruction in the workshop and
field demonstrations in the agricultural courses.  In addition, the project
would finance two small buses for transportation of farmers to agricultural
demonstration plots, and five motorcycles for use by instructors giving crop
courses in the field and providing post-training technical assistance to
participants (see Annex 4).
Post-Training Technical Assistance
3.17      In order to utilize the skills learned during courses in their own
farms or workshops, participants would develop individual or group production
plans. SNPP's instructors would guide participants, using cost-effective
production and farm models and teaching materials developed by specialists.
Courses would also provide information about available credit programs and
guidance in making formal applications. The participants' plans would form
the basis for determining capital needs and developing individual and group
funding proposals. SNPP's instructors would later provide technical
assistance to participants for the proper implementation of their productive
projects. Instructor schedules have been established so that sufficient time
would be available for this follow up (an average of 48 hours per trainee, up
to a total of 20 staff-years for the life of the project). For trainees
receiving credit from BNF and other regular sources of credit, SNPP's
instructors would continue providing technical assistance.
Access to Credit
3.18      Participants who prepare productive projects would have access to
credit through either existing credit schemes or a fund financed by the
project. These two options are discussed below.
3.19      Existing Credit Lines.   Existing credit lines would be used by



- 16 -
participants meeting the conditions established by these programs.  It is
expected that some 900 individuals would use existing credit lines during the
first four years of the project, mostly for crops (Table 3.3).  This target
can be reached because the criteria for access to existing credit lines are
the same as those for course entry (para. 3.11). Agreements have been
reached with BNF and CAH whereby course participants who meet lending
requirements would receive prompt consideration. The government should
present a letter of understanding with BNF on this matter before Board
presentation.
Table 3.3:  EXPECTED DEMAND FOR CREDIT RESOURCES BY COURSE GRADUATES
No. of Loans          Loans Amounts (in US$'000)
Course                    Existing                Existing                    Av-
Source  PTF a/ Total  Source   PTF a/  Total   erage
Agriculture graduates
who receive:
Full Financing             600    36      636  1,290.0   77.4  1,367.4    2.15
Partial Financing            0    50       50    -0-       20.0     20.0    0.4
Livestock graduates
who receive:
Full Financing              40   154      194      80.0  308.0      388.0   2.0
Partial Financiing         100    60      160      40.0   24.0       64.0   0.4
Non-Farm graduates
who receive:
Full Financing              50   134      184    115.0  308.2        423.2  2.3
Partial Financing           75    70      145      45.0   42.0        87.0  0.6
Total                        865   504   1,369  1,570.0  779.6    2,349.6
a/   Post-training fund.
3.20      Post-Training Fund.  The project would finance a fund of about
US$780,000 to provide credit to individuals and groups of course participants
who:
(a) are not able to obtain credil: from existing lines for their
proposed productive projects (e.g., livestock; non-standard cash
crops, such as pineapple; and non-farm trades and services);
(b) require partial financing in amounts that are too small to be
handled by regular credit institutions (e.g., US$300 to US$600);
and/or
(c) need temporary credit to complete eligibility requirements for
regular credit lines, e.g., down payment to gain access to land
title.
3.21      Course participants would be required to present a production plan
acceptable to a credit committee composed of SNPP and CAH representatives,
and be recommended by local leaders. It is estimated that about 80% of the
graduates of the first four years, or some 1,400 would obtain financing for
their productive projects (Table 3.3).   Of these, about 900 loans would come
from existing funds and about 500 woulcd come from the special post-training
fund managed by CAH. About 1,000 of the total would use their loans to



- 17 -
finance a full productive endeavor, e.g., investments and other costs for a
full agricultural season or establishment of a full workshop. About 400
loans would be for complementary financing, e.g., to purchase some equipment.
3.22      CAH would administer the post-training fund under contract with
SNPP. It would provide credit, preferably in kind, and collect repayments.
It would operate from its existing offices in the Chore area, and would open
an office in the SNPP training center in Hernandarias. Depending on the
demand, it would establish other offices in Canendiyu and Alto Parana. The
government provided a draft agreement on administrative arrangements and
procedures between CAH and the government before negotiations. Signing an
agreement satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.
3.23      The CAH fund would supplement or provide credit to individuals and
groups for working capital as well as investment expenditures. Groups would
be able to obtain credit for purchase of inputs (fertilizer, pesticides,
seeds, etc.) and working capital for joint and individual use. The maximum
amount any individual would be able to obtain would be US$4,000. The maximum
for any group would be equal to the minimum obtainable from established
credit lines. Credit would be provided at the prevailing standard annual
rate; at the moment this is 12% interest plus a commission for CAH of not
more than 6%. Terms would be one year for inputs and hired labor and three
to five years for investments in land improvements, equipment, tools and
other farm development expenditures (e.g., fences, or animals).
3.24      Because it is difficult for rural people to purchase goods,
provision of credit would be in kind whenever possible. To this end, SNPP
would compile annual lists of equipment, tools and other inputs likely to be
required for productive projects. It would then procure these items
wholesale and pass them on to CAH for distribution through its regional
network. The items would be provided at cost. In case of a substantial
price difference with local market values, the Fund would price articles at
85% of this local market value to avoid price distortions and the surplus
generated would be accrued to the Fund. In case of repossession, SNPP would
recondition the equipment for re-use.
3.25    Since the fund would be a new credit line, it is difficult to predict
the demand. However, if demand were to exceed available funds, the fund
could be augmented by:
(a) repayments to the fund, which could then provide finance for other
graduates;
(b) new government credit lines (e.g., for livestock);
(c) additional funds, through other Bank-financed agricultural or
education projects (e.g., Proposed Second Itapua Rural Development
Project).
During negotiations, the government has provided assurances that it will
review the fund's performance (i.e., the use of the fund, relevance of
procedures, a sample of production and income data of course partici-
pants) and prepare a report for discussion with the Bank by July 1, 1987.
D. Objective 3: Strengthening SNPP's Institutional Capacity to Train Rural
Workers and to Coordinate with Other Rural Services
(Proposed Outlay: US$1.0 million)
3.26      The project would strengthen SNPP's managerial, financial and



- 18 -
technical capacity to provide training to rural workers and to improve
coordination with other rural agencies.  In order to do this, the project
would finance an extensive training program for SNPP personnel, studies,
professional services, staff salaries, and complementary equipment to
reinforce the Planning Department and other technical units of SNPP. These
components are discussed in sequence below.
Staff Training
3.27      The project would finance 41 training courses (about 16 staff
years) for SNPP's managers, regional directors, technical staff, supervisors,
instructors and administrative and financial staff (Table 3.4 and Annex 5).
Courses would be given at SNPP headquarters by international experts in
management techniques, training methodology, and technical subjects, to
enable SNPP to be adequately prepared 1:o carry out this new type of training
program. In addition, the project would finance 36 staff-months of
fellowships (Table 3.5) for SNPP's managers, regional directors, supervisors
and instructors for study trips to othe!r training institutions with
comparable programs such as those in Costa Rica, Colombia and Brazil.
Table 3.4 SUMMARY OF TRAINING PROGRAM FOR SNPP PERSONNEL
No. cf       No. of        Staff-
Target Groups                 Courses   Participants    Hours
Executive Level                        8            31           3,540
Supervisors and Technicians            8            44           7,840
Instructors                           18           124          17,280
Administrative and                     6            30           5,120
Financial Staff
TOTAL             41           229          33,780
Source: Bank estimates.
Studies
3.28      SNPP would carry out studies on organization, financial sources,
course evaluation and several technical subjects, as well as project
completion. The project would finance 12 staff-months of specialist
services to study SNPP's organizational structure, to help SNPP identify ways
in which it could organize to provide rural basic training programs on a
large scale on a continuing basis, because at present it does not have such a
structure (para. 2.21). Also, SNPP receives its funds after cumbersome
government budget allocation procedures. The project would finance six
staff-months to analyze potential alternatives to the present procedures.
During negotiations, the government has provided assurances that it will
send both studies to the Bank for review by December 31, 1985.
3.29      SNPP would also carry out a study to identify long-term funding
sources to finance its rural training activities. Although SNPP has legal
responsibility for providing training for all the sectors, its main source of
funds is from the private, urban industrial sector. This fact imposes
practical limitations on the amount of funds that SNPP can allocate to rural
training (para. 2.21). The project wou:Ld finance 6 staff-months of technical
assistance to analyze potential alternative sources of funds and present
recommendations to SNPP's Board of Directors. During negotiations, the
government has provided assurances that it will send this study to the Bank
by December 1, 1987; discuss the results with the Bank and formulate
reasonable recommendations.



- 19 -
Table 3.5: SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, FELLOWSHIPS AND STUDIES
Revised Tentative Schedule
(in staff-months)
Expert Services                       Total    19Q3   1984   1985   1986
1.  Planning and Coordination                30                 6      12      12
2.  Evaluation                                6                         6
3.  Organization and Administration          12                         6       6
4.  Credit and Marketing                     12                         6       6
5.  Curriculum Development                  (12) a/   (6)    (6)
6.  Methodology                             (12) a!   (6)    (6)
7.  Long-term SNPP Financing                 12                 3       6       3
TOTAL                 72       (12)      9     36       27
Tentative Schedule
Staff-    (in No. of Fellowships)
Fellowships              No.   months   1984   1985   1986   1987
1.  Top Managers                    3        3        1               1      1
2.  Regional Directors              3        6                1       1      1
3.  Supervisors                     3        6        1       1       1
4.  Instuctors                      7       21        1       3      2       1
16      36        3       5       5       3
Tentative Schedule
(in No. of Studies)
Studies                    No.         1984   1985   1986   1987    1988
1.  Occupational Studies b/          1       (1)    (1)    (1)    (1)
2.  Evaluation                       6                1       1      2        2
3.  Credit and Marketing             2                1       1
4.  Mid-Term Fund Evaluation         1                1
5.  Cash Crops                       2                1       1
6.  Appropriate Technology           2                1       1
7.  Food Conservation                2        1       1
8.  Project Completion               1                                          1
a/ Technical assistance from Spain; not included in total.
b/ To be carried out on a continuing basis by SNPP's Planning Department.
3.30       In addition, the project would finance 17 studies on rural occupa-
tions and training requirements, course evaluation, credit and marketing,
technical subjects and project completion (Table 3.5). Studies of rural
occupations and training requirements would enable SNPP to sharpen the focus
of the course program (para. 2.19). The course evaluation studies would
assess the use graduates make of skills acquired, increases in production and
productivity, and the use of credit sources. The credit studies would focus
on assessing the availability of existing credit lines, and conditions that



- 20 -
credit recipients must meet. A mid-term evaluation study of the post-train-
ing fund would also be carried out (para. 3.25). The marketing studies would
focus on existing marketing structures and channels in each region and how
course participants could make optimal use of these channels or make greater
use of alternate chatnels. These studies would result in teaching materials
for instructors training courses and for skills training courses.  Similarly,
the technical studies would focus on topics which could be translated into
teaching modules for the skills training courses.  The project completion
report would be a final evaluation of these project outcomes. The occupa-
tional studies and the project completion study would be carried out by SNPP
staff. For the other studies SNPP would contract qualified local
consultants, who are available. Terms of reference for all studies would
have to be acceptable to the Bank.
Technical Assistance
3.31 A    The project would finance a total of 72 staff-months of inter-
national expert services for planning and coordination, staff training,
carrying out organizational and financial studies (paras. 3.28 and 3.29),
evaluation,  credit aLnd marketing.  A planning and coordination expert would
assist SNPP in setting up mid- and long-term plans, executing the project,
coordinating with other government entities and their plans, supervising
studies and carrying out staff training programs. An evaluation expert would
help strengthen SNPP's capacity to screen candidates and evaluate training
outcomes, e.g., write terms of reference for the studies to be conducted
(para. 3.30). An expert on credit and marketing would assist SNPP's Planning
Department in developing a permanent in-house capability to coordinate with
other rural institutions. In addition, the expert would develop prototypes
of farm and small rural enterprise development models and would assist the
CAH and SNPP credit committee (para. 3.21) in developing criteria for judging
participants' credit applications. Consultants would be hired in accordance
with the Bank guidelines of August, 1981.
3.32      Under an agreement with the government, the Government of Spain
would finance 24 staff-months of assistance to SNPP in the fields of
training, curriculum development, training methodology in rural areas and
preparation of educational materials. This would result in an improved
inventory of existing training materials, codification of contents, and
development of new standardized training inodules. These actions would
eliminate duplication of effort in course design and would speed up course
development. In addition, the government is exploring the possibility of
finding other donors (e.g., UNDP) who wouLd be willing to finance part of the
technical assistance costs.
Staff
3.33      The project would finance 14.5 staff-years of SNPP staff
counterparts to international experts, who would also coordinate studies.
Specifically, two staff members would work full-time: one on coordination
activities with other rural agencies, e.g., for credit and marketing; another
on elaboration of productive projects. The project would also finance 15
staff-years of supervisors for the basic skills training program and
technical staff for dlevelopment of curricula and educational materials.
Equipment
3.34      The project would finance appropriate equipment (micro computers)
for SNPP's Planning and Financial Departments to maintain and process
information, as well as one four-wheel drive vehicle for the Project Unit.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Overview
4.01      Total project costs, net of taxes, are estimated at US$7.8 million.
These costs, including contingencies, are reasonable, and necessary
counterpart funds are expected to be available.
B.   Project Costs
4.02      The breakdown of total costs by project objective and by local and
foreign components is summarized in Table 4.1. The breakdown of costs by
category of expenditure is presented in Table 4.2.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT OBJECTIVE
(at February 1983 prices: US$1 = G160) a/
G Million              US($000's)         % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
Objective 1: Expansion
and Improvement of a
Basic-Skills Training
Program                       88    134      222    549    835   1,385   25.2
Objective 2: Establish-
ment of an Integrated
Training Package
Intermediate Skills
Training Program            111    193      304    692  1,208   1,900   35.5
Post-Training Technical
Assistance and Studies       21      48      68    131    297       427    7.8
Post-Training Fund           31      94     125    195    585       780   14.2
Sub-Total               163    334      497  1,017  2,090   3,107   56.5
Objective 3: Institutional
Development                  43    116      160    272    728       999   18.2
Front-End Fee               -0-       2       2    -0-       12      12    0.2
Baseline Costs              294    586      881  1,838  3,666   5,504  100
Contingencies
Physical                    29     59       88    184    367       550
Price Escalation           124    163      287    774  1,019   1,793
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        447    808   1,255  2,796  5,051   7,847
a/  This official exchange rate has been used, because it is the rate at
which Bank disbursements would be made. Likewise, the same exchange rate
would be used for imports made by SNPP, a government agency, for this
project.



- 22 -
Basis of Costs Estimates
4.03       All cost estimates are based on February 1983 prices.  Estimated
civil works for the project are based on about US$190 per square meter. This
unit cost has also been checked against: current contract prices in contracts
in Paraguay and detailed estimates of other projects of similar nature.
Construction of boarding facilities would follow the standard plan of the
Chore training center, already approvecd by the Bank. Equipment and furniture
costs are estimated from preliminary and final lists of equipment and other
materials. Costs for staff are based on current competitive salaries and
benefits of G80,000 per instructor-mont:h and G100,000 per supervisor-month.
Technical assistance costs for internat:ional experts are based upon an
average cost of US$7,000 per staff month. Those costs include salary,
expenses, fees, subsistence and international travel.  Costs of fellowships
abroad are based upon US$1,800 per staff-month and US$1,700 round-trip travel
cost per individual. Cost estimates dc, not include any duties or taxes
because SNPP is exempt for them under current regulations.
Table 4.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
(at February 1983 prices: 1US$ = 160 Guaranies)
G million              US$ (000's)         % of
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Total
1. Civil works              15.88  10.58   26.46   99.23   66.15  165.38   3.00
2. Equipment                 6.37 121.03  127.40   39.81  756.41  796.22  14.47
3. Vehicles                  2.27  43.15   45.42   14.19  269.70  283.89   5.16
4. Local materials          23.42  93.67  117.09  146.36  585.45  731.81  13.30
5. Staff and Local
Consultants             170.12 104.26  274.38 1063.23  651.65 1714.88  31.16
6. Post-training fund       31.20  93.60  124.80  195.00  585.00  780.00  14.17
7. Technical Assistance
& Fellowships           5.08  96.50  101.58   31.75  603.16  634.90  11.54
8. Studies and Staff
Training               39.78  21.70   61.48  248.63  135.64  384.27   6.98
9. Front-End Fee              -0-   1.99    1.99    -0-    12.46   12.46   0.23
Baseline Costs:       294.11 586.50  880.61 1838.20 3665.61 5503.81 100.00
Contingencies:
Physical            29.41  58.65   88.06  183.82  366.56  550.38
Price Escalation 123.79 163.02  286.81  773.69 1018.88 1792.56
TOTAL PROJECT COST:        447.31 808.17 1255.48 2795.71 5051.06 7846.75
Unit Costs
4.04       Capital costs estimates per sl:udent place are about US$3,307 and
recurrent cost estimates are about US$330 per trainee. A comparison of unit
costs is shown in Table 4.3. Total capi'tal costs per student place are below
current averages, because the project will make full use of SNPP's existing
buildings. In addition, agricultural and basic skills training will be
delivered using mobile units, and hence no buildings. Capital and recurrent
unit costs are below comparable training costs in other LAC countries.



- 23 -
Table 4.3: UNIT COST COMPARISONS
Project         LAC        Bank Wide
Total Cost/Student Place                     3,307 a/      6,110          7,610
Total Recurrent Cost/Trainee                   330           322 b/        N/A
Building Cost/m2                               187           330            390
Construction Cost/Student Place                837 c/      3,780          4,570
Equipment Cost/Student Place                 1,327         1,780          2,760
a/  Equipment and construction cost for an expanded capacity of 200 student
places of the semi-skilled courses.
b/  Average training costs for comparable courses in Argentina, Bolivia and
El Salvador.
c/  Project civil works include only marginal construction: a total of
1,125m2 for lodging facilities, a few classrooms, simple woodframe
workshops for 200 students, animal pens, and tobacco dryer.
Contingency Allowances
4.05      Physical contingencies (US$0.55 million) have been estimated at 10%
for all categories of expenditures.   Price escalation contingencies (US$1.8
million) were estimated separately for (a) all categories of local costs;
(b) the foreign costs of the technical assistance categories, such as
experts, fellowships and special studies; and (c) the foreign costs of
educational equipment and other tangible categories (Table 4.4).
Table 4.4 EXPECTED INCREASES DURING IMPLEMENTATION
(in percentages)
Calendar Year                   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Local Costs (all categories)    17        14     10      10      8       8      8
Foreign Costs
Technical Assistance            7      9       9      8       6      6       6
Educational Equipment           8      8       7      7       7      7       7
Source: Bank estimates.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.06      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$5.0 million
equivalent, or 64% of total project costs. Foreign exchange costs were
estimated using the following percentages: (a) civil works, 40%; (b)
equipment, internationally procured materials, vehicles, technical assistance
and fellowships, 95%; (c) spare parts and locally procured materials, 80%;
(d) staff and local consultants 40%; (e) post-training fund, 80%; and the
front-end fee, 100%.



- 24 -
C. Financing
4.07       The total project cost of about US$7.8 million would be financed as
follows:
(a)  the proposed loan of US$5.0 million equivalent, 64% of the total
project cost, would meet 100% of the foreign exchange costs; and
(b)  the government would finance the remaining US$2.8 million
equivalent, 36% of the total project cost.
In addition, the Government of Spain would contribute US$0.17 million to the
project in the form of two staff-years of technical assistance (para 3.32).
Proceeds of the Loan
4.08       Table 4.5 indicates how the US$5.0 million proceeds of the loan
would be allocated.  The categories of expenditures, amounts for each
category and the percentages of expenditures were determined to facilitate
administrative control of disbursements.
Table 4.5   LOAN CATEGORIES' AMOIJNTS AND DISBURSEMENT PERCENTAGES
Amount
to be Allocated   Disbursement
Category of Expenditures                        (US$)           Percentages
1.  Civil Works                                      165,000             100%
2. Equipment, Spare Parts and Materials
(a) internat:ionally procured               1,100,000             100%
(b) locally procured                          545,000              70%
3.  Staff, Local Consultants                         650,000              40%
4   Post-Training Fund
(a) internat:ionally procured                 548,000             100%
(b) sub-loans and local purchases             187,000              80%
5. Technical Assistance, Fellowships and
Studies, Stipends and Teacher Training    465,000                  85%
6.  Proiect Administration                           255,000              85%
7.  Front-End Fee                                     12,469       amount due
8.  Initial Deposit Special Account                  300,000
9.  Unallocated                                      772,531
TOTAL                          5,000,000



- 25 -
SNPP Contribution
4.09      The government would finance the counterpart funds.  Table 4.6
shows the fiscal analysis of estimated future earmarked revenues to SNPP
(para 2.21). The analysis is based on a 2% annual growth (in real terms) in
SNPP's regular budget to account for seniority and merit increases, and on
the following assumptions: a 2.5% decline of the economy in 1982, 2% decline
for 1983 and a gradually accelerating growth, varying from 2% in 1984 to 5%
in 1988. In addition to the earmarked funds, the government would finance
about 140 million Guaranies over six years (US$.8 million) from ordinary
budget resources.   As the project is a self-contained training program,
involving almost no construction it would not generate recurrent costs after
completion. The program might continue, however, at project levels if a
regular source of funds for rural training is found before project
completion.
Table 4.6 SNPP REVENUES AND COUNTERPART FUNDS
(in Millions of Guaranies, 1982
Constant Prices)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   1989   1990
Annual Revenues      412.5   427.6   440.0   460.0   480.9  520.0   560.0
Non-Project
Expenditures a/   402.9   411.0   419.2   427.6   436.1  444.8   454.0
Transfers to
Projects b/         10.6    15.4    19.2    19.2    19.2   19.2        9.6 e/
Earmarked Funds c/   20.2    32.0    40.0    51.6    64.0   75.3    31.5 e/
Ordinary
Resources  d/       32.8    26.0    33.0    28.4    16.0    4.7        -0-
Total Counterpart-
funds Required      53.0    58.0    73.0    80.0    80.0   80.0    31.5
a/  Regular programs only.
b/ Salary equivalents of instructors transferred from regular programs.
c! Net: Annual revenues minus regular expenditures plus transfers.
d/ Resources provided by the National Budget through the Ministry of Labor
and Justice.
e/ Remainder only.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
5.01      This section describes the project organization arrangements,
procurement procedures to be followed, project monitoring and evaluation
reports, project state of readiness, disbursement schedule and the accounting
and auditing procedures to be followed for the project.



- 26 --
Project Administration
5.02      A separate project unit would bi established in SNPP to
implement, coordinate and monitor the project. Creation of the project unit
would be necessary because SNPP's present oganizational structure is geared
towards providing training for formal emp:Loyment mostly urban based. The
project would represent an additional activity--rural training of
self-employed workers. SNPP's Director General would have overall project
responsibility. In order to integrate the PIU into SNPP's structure the
Manager of the Operations Department would be appointed Project Unit
Director. This Director would be assisted by a full-time unit comprised of a
program coordinator, a procurement specia:List, an administrator/accountant
and an administrative secretary. The Project Director would be responsible
for managing project execution and coordination of the unit's activities with
the various SNPP regional directorates and institutions involved in project
implementation. As a condition of effectiveness, the government would
provide a resolution for the creation of the Project Implementation Unit,
including its scope and responsibilities and the appointment of its Project
Unit Director.
Procurement
5.03      Contracts for equipment and civil works would be grouped as much as
possible to form attractive bidding packages. The contracts for furniture,
equipment, implements and other materials would be awarded on the basis of
ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines when exceeding US$50,000. Contracts
below US$50,000 would be awarded on the bisis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, (LCB) in accordance with government procurement practices
acceptable to the Bank. In addition, miscellaneous items that cannot be
grouped in packages exceeding US$20,000 would be procured through local
purchasing on the basis of three price quotations. Local purchases would not
in aggregate exceed US$800,000. Prior Bank review would be required for
contracts exceeding US$100,000. It is exi:ected that 65% of equipment
procurement would fall in this category. Other contracts would be subject to
random review by the Bank after contract award. Civil works would be awarded
through LCB. Bid packages for civil works are expected to be small because
the centers are in two locations, and the total amount of construction is
about US$210,000. Foreign contractors are not expected to bid, although they
would not be precluded from doing so. Contracts for technical assistance and
professional services would be made in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Studies would be contracted to local organizations and
individuals on terms and conditions accepl'able to the Bank. Terms of
reference would have to be reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.04      The PIU would be responsible for preparing periodic progress
reports which would provide information on the quantitative and qualitative
aspects of the project. Annex 6 includes a list of main criteria for project
monitoring and evaluation. Forms would be developed to suit the reporting
requirements, and the. relevant information would be sent periodically to the
Bank. Monitoring of the project would be the specific task of the PIU.
5.05      A mid-term evaluation report on the post-training fund would be
prepared by 1987 (para. 3.25).  Evaluation of course results would take place



- 27 -
as well (para. 3.30). A project completion report would be prepared by the
Government within six months of project completion. Evaluation of the
project would be carried out by SNPP on a periodical basis.
State of Readiness
5.06      The project is at an advanced state of preparation.  Detailed
training programs, criteria for selection of participants, instructor
training and upgrading plans, content of the productive projects and list of
studies are acceptable to the Bank. SNPP has also developed final content of
several non-farm rural entrepreneur courses; examples of production plans for
rural entrepreneurs (e.g., for a carpentry workshop); final equipment and
materials lists; monitoring and evaluation systems (paras. 5.04 and 5.05)
and technical assistance job descriptions.
Disbursements
5.07      Special Account in the Central Bank.  A special account would be
established in the Central Bank to accelerate reimbursement for expenditures
incurred. The initial deposit by the Bank would amount to US$0.3 million
equivalent, which is based on estimated initial disbursement requirements of
about three months. As the Central Bank and the Project Unit develop
experience with the Special Account procedures, however this ceiling could
be raised following a formal request and established procedures. The special
account would be subject to an audit each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Establishment of the special account is a condition
of loan effectiveness.
5.08      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing up to US$250,000
would be made available for expenditures incurred after February 24, 1983,
related to preparation of training materials, hiring and training of
additional instructors, hiring of key project personnel and improving the
design of project monitoring and impact evaluation.
5.09      Disbursements would be made against withdrawal applications
prepared by SNPP and submitted to the Bank, with standard documentation
covering procurement of equipment, civil works, and materials. Statement of
expenditures would be utilized for disbursing on staff salaries,
post-training fund and project administration expenditures. In addition,
withdrawal applications for items procured through local purchasing or LCB in
amounts less than US$3,000 would be supported by statements of expenditures.
Supporting documentation for such statements would not be sent to the Bank
but would be available for review during supervision missions.
5.10      Disbursement Schedule.  The estimated phasing of Bank disburse-
ments, assuming that the project would become effective by June 1984, is as
follows:



- 28 -
Table 5.1 DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(In US$ thousands)
Amount/      Cumulative  Cumulative
CY           Semester      Semester       Amount        Percent
1984             1           380.0           380.0          7.6
2           150.0           530.0         10.6
1985             1           250.0           780.0         15.6
2           250.0         1,030.0         20.6
1986             1           400.0         1,430.0         28.6
2          500.0          1,930.0         38.6
1987             1           500.0         2,430.0         48.6
2          500.0          2.930.0         58.6
1988             1           500.0         3,430.0         68.6
2          500.0          3,930.0         78.6
1989             1           400.0         4,330.0         88.6
2          400.0          4,730.0         94.6
1990             1           270.0         5,000.0        100.0
This disbursement profile has taken into account the experience of Loan
1252-T-PA. It reflects the initial deposit in the Special Account (para.
5.07) and estimated retroactive expenditures incurred during 1983 (para.
5.08).  As a result, this disbursement profile varies significantly from the
regional profile for education projects. It is expected that project
implementation and disbursements would follow the schedule described above.
5.11      The proposed loan would be disbursed for the specific categories
and percentages described in Table 4.5. To assist the government in the
effective and timely execution of the proposed project, a realistic implemen-
tation schedule has been prepared (Annex 7). This schedule is considered to
be reasonable and within the capacity of SNPP and would serve as the basis
for monitoring project implementation.
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
5.12      SNPP would maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance
with acceptable accounting practices. Expenditures incurred for each
component would be recorded separately to facilitate monitoring of project
costs. A summary of project accounts reiflecting cumulative expenditures
incurred by the end of each period would accompany progress reports sent to
the Bank for information. CAR would also maintain separate accounts for the
post-training fund, and report to SNPP quarterly.
5.13      Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under the project, in particular for the post-training fund and for
professional services and other expenditures reimbursed under SOE
procedures. Auditing would be carried outt under a contract on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the government has
provided assurances that the special account in the Central Bank, project
accounts in SNPP and the post-training fund in CAH will be audited annually
by qualified independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The government has
also given assurances that it will send EL certified copy of the annual audit
report to the Bank within six months following the end of each fiscal year
during project implementation.



- 29 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would assist the Government of Paraguay in
developing its integrated rural development strategy. As a result of the
investment in basic skills training, almost half the target population in
selected areas or about 14,000 persons (of which about half are women)
would be trained in basic skills, the absence of which constituted one of the
bottlenecks to reaching higher production or better living standards. Since
the training program leaves behind trained local leaders, the program would
have a multiplier effect reaching a substantial amount of the rest of the
local population as well. As a result, the living standards, food supply and
incomes of this population would improve.
6.02      As a result of the investment in intermediate skills training
programs, investments in other rural services, such as credit programs, would
be made more efficient. About 1,400 persons, or about 9% of the target group
in selected rural areas would be able to combine better skills with access to
credit. This would enable them to put in practice the skills learned and to
achieve higher productivity and production.   Banks would benefit by having a
more creditworthy clientele. In addition, as a result of the provision under
the project of training and credit to rural entrepreneurs, the rural areas
would themselves generate services for which at present they depend on the
cities. Also, 400 out-of-school youth would be able to find gainful
employment in the rural environment, without having to move to the cities.
6.03      Finally, SNPP would have developed further its institutional
status and its capacity to develop rural training programs. SNPP would be
able to contribute effectively in future rural development programs. Also,
the existing infrastructure of SNPP would be strengthened and utilized more
efficiently, thereby increasing returns to earlier government investments.
Risks
6.04      Because this project is a pilot program, it is not witnout risks.
SNPP is embarking on a new type of training program in which the institution
has little experience. Course content, orientation, and methodology may have
to be adjusted as SNPP gains experience. But above all, success does not
solely depend on SNPP's own actions, as it must coordinate its actions with
other rural organizations.  In addition, expected financial returns to
agricultural training might be reduced because of marketing difficulties,
weather conditions or price fluctuations, uncertainties which cannot be
minimized within the project.  However, SNPP would attempt to minimize market
risks by collecting marketing studies where available, or by conducting local
surveys about market conditions, when the product does not have a well
established market. Finally, this project runs the risk that the
deteriorating economic situation might cause a shortfall in SNPP's revenues.
If that were the case, delays would occur. If such decline occurs, the
government is expected to supplement the counterpart funds required. SNPP
intends to monitor these risks carefully. Early detection of problems or
changes in orientation of other institutions, together with intensive
supervision by the Bank especially in the early stages, would help SNPP take
corrective action.



- 30 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the government gave assurances that it will:
(a)  review the fund's performance and prepare a report for discussion
with the Bank by July 1, 1987 (para. 3.25 and section 3.05 of the
Loan Agreement);
(b) send the Bank the studies on SNPP's organization and on budget
procedures by December 31, 1985 (para. 3.28 and section 3.06a and b
of the Loan Agreement);
(c)  send the Bark a study on funding sources for rural training by
December 1, 1987; discuss the results and formulate reasonable
recommendations for future actions (para 3.29 and section 3.06c of
the Loan Agreement);
(d) follow adequate auditing procedures (para. 5.13 and section
4.02c(i) of the Loan Agreement);
(e)  send a copy of the audit report to the Bank within six months
following the end of each fiscal year of project implementation
(para. 5.13 and section 4.02c(ii) of the Loan Agreement);
(f) create a Project Implementation lJnit, within the administrative
structure of SNPP, and employ, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Director to head such unit (para 5.02
and section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement); and
(g) ensure the availability of foreign exchange needed, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the acquisition of Project
goods and services (section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  signing of a satisfactory agreement with CAH covering
administrative procedures, eligibility criteria and lending terms
and conditions for the Post-Training Fund (para 3.22 and section
6.0la of the Loan Agreement);
(b) the designation of SNPP's Director General as a representative of
the Government in carrying out the Project (para 5.02 and section
6.0le of the Loan Agreement);
(c) the resolution for the creation cf a Project Implementation Unit
and appointment of the Project Unit Director (para 5.02 and
sections 6.01c and d of the Loan Agreement); and
(d) the establislhment of a special account in the Central Bank to
accelerate reimbursement for expenditures incurred (para 5.07 and
section 6.01b of the Loan Agreement).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would be a
suitable basis for a loan of US$5 million equivalent to the Government of
Paraguay on standard Bank terms.



-31 -
AINNEX 1
rage 1 of 2
PA-RAGUAY
SECON1D_VOCAT1ONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Comnpara ti- -1 ua--nf7ctr
(June 3, 1983)
CENONAKL1
GOVERN8MENT                                                                 6CSR
RX ?END rrL RE                                       COMPLETIONRCUEr
GNP7 FOR               AS PERCENT7    RECUARREN          LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY         PRIM{ARY  PRIMARY       RAT E FROM    SECOOSDARY SC8$          IOHERI
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENTO GNP T0AL CESOTRAL. EXPE7TSITRES  RTE                EN'ROLL. SCHOOL        SflIIENS EDUCATIOI   PRIMARY TO  001011.   SOEI    NOL
YEAR MILLS . (t1$)   vEI'OTEDO 0CoovT  "07(1N    ALLOCAT ED TO.   (1)            RATI      CYCLE        PE          SFRFOT00468                AI          E'R.1      ERLL.O
(15793  (1979)   EDUCATION   MEX?D.ITURE   PRI  SEC  HI   (1976)   (1)                   (        r TACIER  GNP/CAPITA        (1          (1)       r1601ER       (l)
(1)      (2)         (3)            (4)             (5)           (6)        (7)   ()              (9)         (10)          (10)         (02)        (13)    (16)
KSR.A1LIA           -9      14 6b  6.870        6.3'         14.6         --   --   --        -         103't      100          21         -99                         73         13       20.90
CANADA               NO     73:7b  94650b       7:7          14.5'!       30*? 34'? 23'?   996          106'       100          21         19.9"?        100           92'        16       22.W0
GERMANY1 F.8.        79     61.2  12,200        6.4           9.9'          - --  --          996        69'       100'        -          --            200'           96'       -         I2.LO4
NETHERLANDS          79     14.0  10 490        7.9           5.0         20    35   25       9967       96         95          18        15.3            99           62        13        12.40
PI!li ZE#IlAN'D      80      3:21  6,080b       5'.5         13.6         37    31   28       99b       100        100          26        11.6          100            62        03        25.60"-
SWEDEN               79      8.3  12,250        9.0          18.2         31    10   50       996        99'      100           58'       19.9          100            79'       10'!      36.30a7
EASTERN6 AFRICA
60tr.A7IA            80      5.8b      7706     6.39         19.3         68    28   13       336        96        74          32         22.0           338*         20         is         1.30
61508601             RI      6.2      235       2.8b.        19.0         43   28   27        25         29'       35          37         20.2           12             3'       17         5.00
CO.'ORDI             RO      0.4b      260      6.5'         25.4         40   2gb  14        --         99'        65          45        16.0            58           21'       30         1.40
OJIIOL.'TI           RI      0.3       660      5.4          00.6         60   40    ...    00           32         6-          1         --             60            8         19         0.50
RT6IOFIA             90     3I.0b      130b     2.2P         11.0'        52   32   14'       15         28        -           59         28.0           -              9        61'        5.10
UMYA.         ~~79     15.3      390       5.9'         18.06        71    15   16       65        92         74          60         15.8           41           19         26         1.00
LESOTH0              go      1.3      4109      6.3P         21.0         51   24,  25        52         64        61          69          6.0           64           17         21         0.910
1LkAOAIACAR          77      85        330      4.0'         26.0         53   28   09        5           48        33          55b        8.0            38           14        22         3.Ioby
MALAWI7              61      61 I      23Cb     3.5          11.6         38   04 23          7)6        62         23          65         5.8            12            4        21         0.40
SEAirITiOS           80      0.96  1,080b       6.0          11.5         39   60      7      s80        87         78          226       17.1            79           437       21         0.40
5.046                60      1.06      2004     3.2          21.3         62   17   10         336       57'       62          40         14.0             6           4'        13         0.60
SLYEOELLES           79      0.6   1,770        5.9          22.0'        34*  33'  10'       ---                  -           25         --                                     -- 
0SOMAL1A             78      3.6       105'     2.0'         01.0         55   10   20        5(0b       2667                  376        20.6           536            4b       166        1.00
,~ OLOAI             80     10.06,    47e6      3.0          -            66   09    .. .    32          51".      68          34          1.4           44           02         16        ..
R'AZILANZO           78      0.5      650       7.0'         17.2         36    33   18       ( 456      8060      49*         3567        7.7           44*          53b8y      20*        2.00
TANZANIA6            60     16.5       2760     5.9          17.7         67    10   16       796        986        17         21         11.0            196                    20         O.01b
10.16.14  80  17.66    3004      -            20~~~~~~~1.1'  236  376  2ob    hS         56'        67          34         --             17            3         23        0.60
ZAIRE                78     27.5       210'     6.0"         22.0         49    26   25       i5         867       44          42'        -              60           13'        27         1.1006
ZAMBIA1              80      5.7b      5466     4~.p         11.1         48   23   22        44         95        No          46         12.9           19           16         22         1.50
01108646             80      7.7b     700b    3.1            19.5         62   32    6        .4         90        53          39         20.0           83           i5         23         0.30
WESTEREN AFRICA
808616               79~     3.4b'    320b    6.3'           33.0         43   21    5        16         42        30          66         14.0           30           IL         63         1.007
CxnRD~ON             78      8.2       590      2.9y         16.07        33'  43'  20'  -               747       45'         S0Y        11.8'          20*          147'       26         1.307
C.A.E.               79      2.2       280      3.8'Y        70,6'y       -    -      --                                       45'!       -              -            --         -          0.70ay
CHAD                 76      6.4       120      2.i"!        21576        -     -     -      13          237       -           77          -      -                    3'P       21         0.207
C0N03                78      1.5      670       9.0"Y        27.7'!        - Y              -                      -           5667       -              30-                     4367       4.0047
GABON                77      0.6   3.420        3.7b7         6.47         --                --          -         -           4467       -                                      0967- gb   2.8087
CA" IA1              77      0.6      220       3.3"          8.56        46   25'   6'   j0b            4067      908         7767       44.7*          40           53687      1 7        -
GHANA                76     11.3       800      4.07         15.56         -     -     - -               716Y       -          2767       --                          34687      21
GU0NEA               79      5.3       2910     4.68P         -           25'  28'  26'    20            34        36          38         20.0'P         es           16         29         7.00*
IVO'RY COAST         80      8.26  1,070b   10.0             45.0         33   46    13    30b           60        86          43         26.0           47           05"!y    26          1.9080
LISERIA              80      1.9       520      6.6          19.6         63   23   24       30          32        32          35         20.0           76           22         20         2.90
8661.1               77      4.76      180b     4,2b         21.76        65'  37'  08'    00            2868?                 4367       -              50'           68        -         0.90by
M8AUIRTANI1A         71      1.66      2206     5.5          16.9         33   63   25       576         32        40          44         52.0           30             9        25         0.37
RIlGOR               78      5.2       300      6.3'7        16.6'7       52'  4 3'   5'      8          17        56'         41'        38.7'          40            2         346       0.20Y
KIORRtI.             77  62.6   910   4.17                    9.6         -   - --  -                   -          -           -          -              -            10'?  ,'5            0.177
SENEGAL,             77      5.5       450      5.0          23.0         66   34   20       10          34b68     --          4367       --              01                      1        334
SIERRA 16088  77  3.6  250   ~~~~~~~~~        16.0b         - --   -          156        37'        -           35         25.0b          84           155       22         0.80b7
T0GO                 78      2.4       400      4.59'        26.59        30'  26'  20'    18            74         60          5467      38.0           52           37687      466        1.o60o
OPFER VOLTA          78      5.6 EN 180         3.0"s        19.3'Y       31   16   32    -              0567      23          5367       52.57          19            3b87      23        0.027
ARO 7 RTI7.                2.      2,210       2.7          10.9         43'  31'  18'    536           9         32          17         -6738                                           1.0
56A1A7AS             79      0.2   2,770        5.7          192          3      6     11    936         99        9           24731                                             19       230
56651.005      3~~8    0.2   2,680         8.5"!        22.1'        63'  31'  16'   996          IOOP        99'         277        19.9'          99'          787        207      --
BOLIVIA              80      5.4       550      4.1'7        30.5'        -     ---   --    43           74Y       -           207        -              --           157        -        12.607
BRAZIL               79   116.5    1.770        3.8           6.2         51 -    14    76               73'7      -           23'?        4.5           61'          IPY    17 16'        2.&Zb
C5118                76     10.9   1,890        3,767        13.Ob          --        --     --         119b.7      --         3667        -                          55687      2067     11.906!
001.07131            80     26.3    l,190Ig     3.3          25.0         35   20   20    906            78        36          32          6.6           -            43         20        10.02'!
CODSAk RICA          RI      376   1,810k       8.4          31.1         40   27   33       90          93        77          33          5.3           77           60         27       16.00
cumA                 76      9.8      -         8.0          11.0          -     --          96         112687     98          186y7      -              98           716x7      15       19.02by
DOMINICANR 8f.    s0         5.3 10,030         2.9          13.0         39   21   22       686         60        31          59          5.2           963                      3         60
tLCALADOR            80      86      ,1          .P          3.            5 3         4     81         103        -           36         12.6           86           47         16       29.00
RL 863.06008   ~77      4.6      660       3.467       23.5by        64     8 27        62         8268?      32          39        -               61           26687     27by       7.90bY
CUATD86ALA           78      6.8    1.010       1.7'!        12.6b        --  -       -      -           69687                 3567       -              69           15b.y    096y         5.507
GUYANIA              76      0.8       630      8.1b7        13,8b7       -           --      --         99687                 3267       -       -                   59687      --         3.0067
66A111               80      3.06      230      3.4'          7.9*7       635    9     6    736          50        20          41         19.0           62'           4'        27         0.80
80800862             28      3.6       520      3.567        14.3by       62'  15'  09'   40             89687      30'        4167       12.8'          48'          2187       19         8.007
JAHAICA              80      2.1   1,110        6.5          13.7         37   63   20       90          96        98          40          2.3           95           81         22         8.00
MEZOCO               60    63.3    1.680        6.7          17.0*        46   39   13    92             98         33         66          9.5           86           56         17        10.30
8I0A3.401IA          78      2.6b   ;job        3,068        16.06        --   -- -          gob         8368      26          376        -              -            2668       30b      -
PANAMA6              38      1.86   1.55Ob      5.5bV7       21.gby       42'  13'  13    626            9567       -          3567       11.6           85'          50by       27by    20.6067
?'ARALAr5            79      3.0    1.140       1.6'         14.2         62   17   20    84             63        32          Zs          3.1'          76           22         12        0.70
PERUl                s0     16.6    1,000       3.6          14.3         53   15   19       s0          83        56          39          9.8           89           39         22       16.407
ErRINIDAD   T 20.   77       1.1    3,910       4.8by         8.8b7       48   32   20       95          96         91         30         10.5?          69           62         24       -
CRIGCAT              78      2.9   2,500        2.5           9,4b        -    -             96         10568                  346        -        -                  666b8      -        17.60*7
VR600UEI.A           58     14.4    3,460       5.17         16.96                    -      82         10668      -           26           --                        38b8       17       21.107



-32-
AMNE1X I
rage 2 of 2
EXPENDITIRE                                         COMPLETION             RECURRENT 
EASE  POP.IAPOTA   7!IT3~ ~IPON LDUCATION ItDUCAT ION       ADULT               RAS E MTR              UNrT COST  PROGRESSIONENL.
BASEPOP    A?TA   ERC~-rGNPTOTAL CEKNI'-L EXPENDI`TURES  RATE         E:NROLL. SCHOOL        ST'WHENTS EDUCATION  PPSMAkY TO  ENOL             T U DENr S  FNROLL.
YfEAS MILTS.  (05$)   DEYOTB2 TO  1055 ESS'E         kLLOCAYCED TO:   (0)       CAIO       CICLE      PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   R.CI            PEE        RATITO
(19797  (19791    ED7CM1OU   OUEDITLUkE   FRI  SEC  Hi   (1976,    (0)    1)            TEA(3!ER IGNP/CA ITA        (U)    ()           TPEARCHER      (2)
(1)  j               3)             (4)            (3)          (6)        (7)       (8)         (9)         (10)          (11)          12)       (13)      (14)
COISNA              6     99          3Cb      3634   39   27                               6b         s         63          23          7.0           72          38         17        3.70
SLOKEIANIL          aI  10.2b    562           4702         10.3        71   34   20        -2         90        61          37                       3 18.42                  6        37
KORAILN              80    39.3k   1 6236      3.17         20.9         59    14   13      666        96        9-          47         19.3           9           29         22         .0
PAhLA N.C.           79     292b      7g0      5.4P         16.17        --  17   20        2b         63b       7           531        5.6           -            14b        23        1.43
PIDIAPIES           77   6)9.8        210       .8           40         64 3--              36b        746617'                                                    95          3         10
N1EPAL   E          S0    163    14140         27            67          3    18   34       19         925530                                         9              5        22        30
SOLOMON ISL          79    79.7       260                                     26 ~ 1:0  1 3    20  2-  60        80          48         6.            351         2is         --7       -.00
T70AISCAND           so    T37.3k    7         1.    3.        7 20 7919 15  13              26        9by       69          376         93            59            9        22y       1.007
GREE,CEACS           76     92.3b  490         ),4O         10.616      37   17   20        -           727b9 635                         .27         -            14b        23h       17.803
INDAQ                77    129.6    2710       n.3'          6.0'7       - -.       --      36        7100       -r1-                                 --           28'Y      29-        8.30'Y
NEPDAL             C8    14.3b  I.420          2.0          19.2        19   44   18        709      lOS         30          32-        7.            91           82'        25       19.00-
LAEIANO             79      29.3      27       2.-           518.6       39   26   27       24         96'        o          48        6-              -                     - 27a 1     .800
4ARF a38.L9.5                         'A       470n         1.7.        36   14   20        128        37        39          39b       19.            40           25         21b       4.500
OANRI                79     08.3   3,7030      3.)          12.3'       3-    26   2-       35        483Y       4-          237       --0             5-          27'        2           .0
EGPOTL2             el     93.86  2,00         3.6          22.         310   29   26       78         97        20$         194       12.8a          88'          45         17'       8.30'
GROENE               78    29.1   2,100       32947          0:6.2'       7 -  6 -.1-    98          544         --          -                        NB 62-       79ba       221y    17.8ObY
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,42          7.17         16.8 I            -    -         - 5      98b-                   3296                                  4747       2        24.90-Y
SIRAQ               79     82.6   1,170        4.AY          60. 392    26                  S         87-        80          2357       -6                        .45Y       216       12.60
70E5A06              79      4.4b  1.17"0      7.09Y        19.08       43Y1                620       100 93         394               12.893                      30'        30        6.00
JORDAN!              81      2.2b  1,42bG      3.1~         26.2         19   44    -       736        08'        o'         328         7.2          51           38,        20       69.00
Y33EBANO68.          79      6.8      42       5.           12.0-       94     7    7       21         37X       12         319        67.             -            36       20        17.10
NO104P.0.1           s2     2-.0      436      76,a          97.5        363  144    8'    23         561        34          19        1.4 25 2.'      61                     21        2.50
SELN SOIS3:                                                              PO7YOTNO-IRS:       -       4-Y         -          3-        -               -7-                    9         -
TUNISIA        :CONISSORIC  P6107.2139   18                                                                                       12.8CL30                    30065509 AI
A.R.  so  6  420   5 rp.        12 0         94     7    7~~~S   MINISRY3O  E        1CAIO       38Y20  O    70NLY                                2 
TLMEK  82  2 8  420      7:6          9:7         63-  14-   O'~~~~  53 90     61 STATE 2COVES46                                             17        20ONLY
DATUM UNAVAILABLE                   FOarNCYrES    8 A-DATUML  EPENDITOURAE  YELR
INCLUDES PART-TlKZ STUDENTS                       PI-GDCP N  OE-C  SUET
Columns 1 and 2:  World Rank AElNisras OorDUCATIONIiWEionN.
Colmns3 o 1:  IEEnisioo.  uveu,ot  ouoea  ndor   neso TtOE tOAND  YTAEarbEook.           ONL
Cn..rel'e  EdcaionDat  ar  uefo  IntheevluaIonoR  arouseduatin        PUtn   aoL  EXPNDIyTURE ONLaYv    tgso   dctoa   dvEpe,   ewe   aIu
(2)tl   Ed.ri.aDy       - euatinre ..fersT toheduc-Iotis obe   -ica  Lve  ad ...t     ondat.-  e..ato   refer  to  l-   dctIon atf dcthe..  eodarylevelt Beatdes o- ty.e
(3). .6 i. tadIralybyratankcl  6   c  often gobtaine   foor- cuth.ry c inadar  In. stany conite they aredt  fonly .c.   Effntora t. het Is.  -doit.u sthatdany  neo
(4)  *Pubalc expendtuefin educa tho.        (oa.4ad5)rf toblall cdapOtial andot  frs,oren eapndItures df                   oe   o  dctonb-IlI   n .alp
(3)   tmrnlleeo   ractioS"  (olf.r.   12 and-t14)a rhefrc afht    year and -scnareyth  pelce...5tl o reflr.tobll cldren enolled fhulcontrye 1n thegaprdlessoft achpo
p3ubitrcyso  r:t.ivatelb level.   fThey.r oftaied  oictt  f-d.-try              1n of  eror n.thiemdolpo              orc   wn the    r nyprito" vandtln i n .d.t. the atcoray o.f.-sI
dana (I..., ag.-pecifIc population and  En-1eets.               .r       . aet fiRor.a fr-qortly are blgh-r th-n the  umber of students accoaly im school.  Over-aged
stmd.nts ch.at Inlsin . indiosted by f.otnot.a alaso -Inflate the ratiua..



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
TPage-l of 2
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit Resources Earmarkea fur Swall Farmers
Already Available                                                  Amount (US$ million)
World Bank
Loan 1674-PA                                                            $  5.1
Loan 2087-PA                                                               8.5
Loan 2141-PA                                                               5.5
Sub-total                                                            19.1
BNF Contribution  (45%)                                                    8.6
Sub-total                                                            27.7
IDB
No. 615, Alto Parana Canendiyu                                             4.7
IDB/IFAD Paraguari                                                        10.8
Sub-total                                                            15.5
BNF Contribution (40%)                                                     6.2
Sub-total                                                           21.7
KfW
KfW 6th Agreement                                                          3.7
BNF Contribution (40%)                                                     1.5
Sub-total                                                             5.2
Total External Loans Approved                                             38.3
Total BUli Contribution                                                   16.3
Total Resources Available for Small Farmer Credit                    ,   54.6
Forthcoming in 1984
IDB - 6th Loan to AD for Small Farmers                                    20.0
BNF Contribution (40%)                                                     8.0
Sub-total                                                           28.0
Total Approved, and forthcoming including BNF Contribution:               82.6
Source: BNF's Agricultural Department



-34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Ongoing Agricultural Credit Programs in Selected Frontiers
Number of
Recipients        Source
Bank - Loan 2141-PA - Eje Norte                 1,500            BNF
KfW - Eje Norte                                 1,000            CAH
Bank - Loan 1674-PA - Eje Este                    600            BNF
IDB - Canendiyu/Alto Parana                     1,500            BNF
Bank - Future Alto Parana Sur/ Itapua Rural   unknown            BNF
Development Project
TOTAL                  5,600



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3. of 2
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Skills and Tasks Included in Course Content
I.   Basic Rural Training.  The specific content of each course would be defined
in collaboration with the community. Examples of main modules are:
A. Basic Agriculture:
- soil conservation
- fertilization techniques, alternatives
- seed selection, pest control
- product conservation, seeding
- proper use of animal traction
- alternatives for crop conservation
- marketing agricultural produce
B. Livestock and Husbandry
- dairy processing
- fatten hogs, chickens, lambs, rabbits
- techniques to improve output: sterilization, weaning, balanced diets
- sanitation, vaccination, disease control
- optimal selling time, marketing
C.  Record-Keeping and Administration
- input listing and costing
- format planning: variety, inputs required, likely revenues
- production plan
- marketing
D. Home Improvement
- water collection, safe water
- food conservation and preservation
- handicraft production and marketing
- rustic stove construction
- rustic food conservation, grain dryers construction
- utilitarian furniture
- silo construction, storage facilities
- home sanitation: local plagues, techniques, alternatives
- animal housing models: easy maintenance, feeding, expansion



36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
II.   Semi-Skilled Training (Farming Trades)
A. Export and Agriculture
1. land clearing, timer utilization
2. soil preparaton with animal force
3. seed selection,ensuring good quality seecds
4. proper plant density, weeding, crop rotation/mixing.
5. pest control: techniques, products, alternatives
6. harvest and storage techniques
7. production. plan preparation (crop and farm;expected costs and gains)
8. credit application: forzns, procedures, timing
9. individual and cooperative crop marketing
B. Livestock and. by-products
1. sanitation., vaccination
2. feeding: appropriate diets, alternatives
3. sterilization: instruments, techniques, timing
4. animal hotsing (swine, poultry, eggs, dairy)
5. parasite treatment
6. animal reproduction: cycle, early care, stages
7. farm management: record keeping, maintenance, markeing
8. farm planning: access to credit, generating savings, expanding output
1II.   Semi-skilled training (non-farm trades.
1. tool preparation organization and maintenance.
2. materials: alternatives, preparation and cost calculation
3. basic acccunting, generation of savings, expansion
4. basic technical designs/procedures
5. construction of utilitarian furniture
6. practical applications of trade
7. basic machine repair and maintenance
8. production planning: hours, materials, parts
9. budgeting and marketing
10. a-ess to credit



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Equipment by Program and Subcategory
(in millions of Guaranies)
Maintenance
Complementary  Working        and        Learning
Equipment   Materials  Spare Parts  Material  Vehicles Total
Basic Skill
Training          17.2          49.1  1/   16.9            3.0              86.2
Agriculture
Training          32.6          21.1        11.5           6.6              71.8
Artisan Training   16.5           26.1          6.3           5.3             54.2
Printing             5.2           4.3                                         9.5
Audio-Visual Aids                   5.8                                        5.8
Micro-Computer       18.0                                                     18.0
Vehicles 2/                                   10.4                     35.0  45.4
Total           89.5         106.4        47.1          14.9       35.0 290.9
1/ Includes some learning materials.
2/ For all three training programs and supervision.



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINIING PROJECT
Training Program for SNPP Personnel
Trograiningu  or                    S                          'a      Duration   Participants                Tentacive Schedule
Training                ~~~~~~Title                   __O.       Hours__ ____ ___ ___ach_
P-rogram for:                    -.-O                                     or       _oic    _2taffi`hours        Ii    85   36   1957 19S8
Executive Level           a)  Adminiscration and               4         35          15           2100           1     1    1
(Director, deparrment           Project Evaluation
and Division Chief and  b)  Organizational Development    2              40          10            800                 1           l
regional Directors)       c)  Administration bv Objectives  2            40           8            640          1            1
Supervisors and           a)  Methodology                      2        120          10           2400          1
Technician Advisors       b)  Learn-material
production                    2         802         10           1600                 1
c) Productive Projects
Development and
marketing                     2         80          12            1920          1           1
d)  Research and evaluation
Techniques                    2         80          12            1920                1             1
Instructors
-  Basic Skill Program  a)  MethodoloDgy                       1(F)    120            6            720           1
1(8')    120          10           1200                 1
2(UC)    40           10            goo
b)  Production Techniques            I         8C         12            960          1           1
-  Agric4lmrt-atd        a)  Methodology                      1(F)    20C           10 1/        20G0                 1
Livestock at semi-                                          l(UG)    SO           12 2/         960
skilled level         b)  Production Technicues             2         SC          10 Vi        1600          1           1
c)  Development of Produccive
-    Projects and Marketing           2         8C          10 1/        1600                 1
I urutl Artesans      a)   ehodology                       l(F)    200           10 1/         2000                1
Program                                                    2(t'G)    80          10 2/         1600                      1
b)  Producticn Techniques            2         80          12 11        1920                 1
c)  Development of Productive
Projects and Marketing           2        80           12 I/        1920                l
Administrative and
Financial Staff        a)  Accounting                        2       120           10           2400          1           1
b)  Micro Computer                   2         80           S           1280          1      1
c)  Warehouse Administration         2         60          12 3/        14-0          1           1
TOTAL                                                  41                                  3328
P   -   Courses for new instructors
UG  - Upgrade instructors
!-   Table included in SN?? regular courses for 15 participants
2/       Includes instructore of other SNPP programs
3/       Includes personnel of other SlTrP programs



-39-                                                                       
- 39      ~~~~~~~ ~ANNEX 6
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Project                    Xeau. to                                              When
Objectives                 Achieve Cb:ccives        'r.i; tors          "        eZ3Ur:.d    C.4: . --o7:-.I
1.  Provide Rural         1. i  Basic Skill Training      N'urer of Courses         Secester    Ins:rucrors hired
Training ProSra=s                                     Niumber of partiznanrts  S e.           !nsirucz:r training
Type of nodules grvon   Semeeter    "odul2 develo;r.ent
1.2  Agriculturnlitivtstock   :'umber of courses 4        Setester
and Artesaz Eourses    Participurts
by spe:ialty
- in course
- applying for the
cour3e
2.  Provide               2.1  Develop Productive          'turber of Productive    By course   7yr. of projects
post training              Projects                   Projects Developed                    Type of invescrents required.1/
Support
2.2  Provide Access to          Nruber of Project          By course
Finacial Support           Receiving credit by   per
2.2 1 existing             Source                  semester    2.2 1 Contact u-ith existi-g credirlines
creditlines                                                         - Nurber Qf Projects presteted
- Number of Projects appro-ed
- Tima elaps'ed between ?r-ser.tation/
approval.
2.Z 2 fund                                                      2.2 2 Tine ela2sed in credit avproval
procedures by step
- aoun_ s approved
- disba:seensts rde - in 'sird    /
- in futds
- collectiec procedures
- recovery rates
Z.3  Provide Supervision        Ere. spent cn              Semester
insttuctors
- total
- par trainee                              1)  develcrneent of rroctrernot list
by 6st;?P
2) delivery of S2iPr 2rocured goods
3.  Strengthen SlFp?      3.1  Fraaeriall"-.
-study S'TP or;.           - when dote               Senester
-fellowships for           - then dome               Serescer
=.g .
-planning dept.            - when is hi- ed          Se-ese:r
- studies beir.g          Srester
carried out
3.2  Financially:
-study fin. sources        - when dor.e
-fellowships               - wher. done
3.3  Techlcail-v:
-i=prove training          - Tcven:ory of            Sereste:
contents                    existing
- ;i..uer of new          Semcster
=odules Uaveluped
-Des_gn Eval. Study        - r. A. hired             Seteste-
- Dws..  npccipered       Serze-
- Zval:aticn Ztu.'ies    lerdster
be'-g carried cut



- 40 -                                    ANNEX 7
PARAGUAY
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(Accumulated Percentage)
Calendar Year       1984       1985       1986        1987       1988       1989
ITEM                     Semester        (1)  (2)  (1)  (2)  (1)  (2)  (1)  (2)  (1)  (2)  (1)  (2)
Training Programs
Basic Skills Courses                           5   10    15    25   40   50   60   70   80  90 100
Agriculture and Livestock Courses                   5    10    20   35   45   55   65   75  85 100
Rural Artisan Courses                                     10    20   30   40   50   60   70  80 100
Productive Projects
Preparation                                    2    5    10    15   30   45   55   65   75  90 100
Credit                                                     2    10   20   35   45   55   70  85 100
Execution                                                  2    10   20   35   45   55   80  85 100
Evaluation                                                        2   10   30   40   50   75  80 100
Training SNPP Technical Staff
Management                                    10   25            40         60         75       100
Supervisor                                   20           30    40   50          75  100
Instructor                                    10   20    40    60   75   85  100
Furniture and Equipment
Lists, specifications                   70  100
Bidding DCS                             40  100
Competive Bidding and Evaluation                   50                      100
Award of Contract                                  50                      100
Distribution                                              10    20   50          70   80  100
Civil Works
Plans                                   50  100
Bidding Documents                       70  100
Bidding and Evaluation                       100
Award of contracts                           100
Construction                                       40   100
Technical Assistance
Expert                                             20    40    60   70   80  100
Consultants                                        10    30    50           75        100
Fellowships                                   10   20            50         80        100
Studies
Evaluation                                                 5    10   20   40   60   80  100
Credit                                                     5          10   30   50   75  100
Appropriate Technologies                                  10          20   30   50   80  100



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
PARAGUTAY
Second Vocational Training Project
Selected Documents Available in the Projects File
A. General report and studies on the sector
Al.  Anuario 1977 - Desarrollo Educativo en Cifras Ministerio de Educacion
y Culto.
A2.  Estado Actual de la Educacion Tecnica, Agropecuarioy Profesional
en el Paraguay - Noviembre 1978, "Programa Paraguayo - Aleman
de Educacion y Desarrollo?.
A3. Educaci6n en Paraguay Principales Indicadores Periodo 1970-1978
Ministerio de Educacion y Culto.
A4.  El Acceso a la Educacicn Tecnica y Agropecuaria - 1979 "Programa
Paraguayo - Aleman de E-ucacion y Desarrollo
A5. Ensefianza Tecnica y Profesional en el Paraguay - Mayo 1982 - Programa
Paraguayo - Aleman de Fducaci6n Desarrollo.
A6.  Instituto de Bienestar Rural - Memoria del Ejercicio 1977.
A7.  Paraguay Desarrollo Regional en el este del Paraguay Banco Hundial
Diciembre 1978.
A8. Paraguay Economic Memorandum - Banco Mundial June 1979.
A9. Plan Nacional de Recursos Rumanos y Empleo 1977 - 1981 Ministerio
de Justicia y Trabajo.
AIO Servicio de Promoci6n Artesanal - Ministerio de Industria y Comercio.
All Oportunidades curriculares en el area tecnicapara la mujer rural
Paraguaya" lniversidad Catolica 1977.
A12  Instituto Nacional de Tecnolog4a y Normalizaci6n Ministerio de
Industria y Comercio - Informe 1981.



-42--                                ANNEX 8
Page 2 o: 3
B.  General Reports and Studies on the Project
Bl. Ley No. 253 que crea el Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional.
B2. SNPP Memoria Anual - 1981.
B3. Manual de Proced:imientos Tecnicos de las Direcciones Regionales
de SNPP - 1981.
B4. Manual de Procedimientos Tecnicos de la Direccion Regional del
Norte-Chore - 1982.
B5.  Departamento de Ensefianza Tecnica Miniisterio de Educacion, Organizacion
y Funcionamiento - 1982.
36.  Asuerdo Complementario de Convenio de Cooperacion Tecnica Paraguayo
Hispano para el Desarrollo de un Programa - Socio Laboral en
Paraguay - 1982.
B7. Convenio SNPP - SENA II (PERU) 1982.
38. CAH 1982 Informe anual.



-43 -                                  ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
C. Selected Working PaDers
Cl. Promocion Profesicnal de Poblaciones Rurales de Baja Renta.
Documento I - Informaci6n General y Justificacion del Proyecto.
Documento !I   Formulaci6n del Proyecto.
C2. Lista de Equipos, herramientas y Materiales.
C3. Estimacion de Costos e Ingresos de Proyectos Productivos.
C4.  Lista de Contenidos Formativas.
C5.  Descripcion del Programa de Adiestramiento Familiar Rural (A.F.R).
C6.  Propuesta para el Mejoramiento de los Cursos de A.F.R.
C7.               Project Working Pauers
- Objetivos y composici6n del proyecto.
- Administraci6n del Proyecto.
- Descripci6n caracteristicas de los cursos.
- Modalidades de Ejecucion de los cursos.
- Criterios para la seleccion de los lugares de actuacion y cursos.
- Criterios para la selecci5n de participantes.
- No. de cursos y alusmos por ifodalidad y Ado.
- Terminos de Referencia de Expertos y Consultores.
- Programa de Entrenamiento para el Personal del SNPP.
- Planeamiento de Cursos y Determinaci6n de Dependencias de Enseflanza.
- Lista de estudios y costos.
- Costos de estipendios para Participantes.
- Listas de Vehiculos.
- Normas sobre adquisiciones.
- Cronograma de Implementacion.
- Detalles de costos por categorlaa.
- Calculation on Front Loading
- Training Demand Calculations



IBRD 17186
57.01 SP                  56                       55-                            A?RIL 1983
BOLIVIA                                                           5                          5
/                         b                                                PARAGUAY
>BRAZIL  214   SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(   ,;0<  0',r Syq?,'1-    {                           ' V                                                                                 210
SNPP Centers                   0    Cities and To-ns
" P__L .~.                      6                                   Ongoing Rural                  6     National Capital
\ [ ) / 7 Development Projects     Selected Roads
0                                                  _ .   (  . __   Eje Norte                =       0Ner
X    *  E je Este            :  0 . Marshes
-? _ 0.                                                    Alto Poran6 Conendiyu                Department Boundaries
Asuncion)                                                                                                   International Boundaries
;            7    ___-.                40A    2. 2)
ARGENTINA
/                                     .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pedro J,or Cabolleo 
59'                      5i
9 s 9 ;- . J~~~~~~~~~~~ B  R A  Z  I L
23-
230
ygatim~~~~~~ Salto del G.airo
de Roso<                                     I( 
si;   P   \$>        . . 0           j                               >                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pierto Adela 
_a  otapsoN
ASUN06CIN veoccupv < -;
O      20      40      60      80 M LES  ^                                                                                          1 rJ  7U _ ,r, 
O   50      100 KILOMETERS   ,{   Y    0   (                  <-   allarica   .,,*  --   >   ^,-< ,-C. =. .,- .' o. 200
-26-                                                    'j'-'                         .                       . 
/  0i 00 0' 00 .  '  7 .26-
59                         U5                                                                                                    540\.^,,aaaa,V y
AR G E N T I N A =  R.sahsenlFr
*ht                                     \                /t R t  i -                   tX   i    S y X,Si,        Vo</            s?    e, JURCby an JF a
-27-                                                                                          peW-,.d.  p<;  -d t.... b-d-. 2
59- 'js                                                                   56-           S      S     -                      54-



