RESTRICTED
Report No. PA- 16-
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
NIGER
FILE COPY
May 15, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00               =    CFA franc 277.71
CPA franc 1                 US$0-0036
CFA franc 1 million   =    US$3,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
UNCC     :  Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation
FED      :  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(t4V     :  Groupement Mutualiste Villageois
CFDT     :  Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des
Fibres Textiles
SONARA   :  Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisation de l'Arachide
CSPPN    :  Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits du
Niger
IRAT     :  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
BCEAO    :  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDRN     :  Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
BIAO     :  Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale



NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUPI4ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..... ....... ...  * .      .......             i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION.
II. BACKGROUND.                                                           1
The Economy  1...........
Agriculture .2
Agricultural C-;7edit.
The Productivity Improvement Progra.                           5
III. THE PROJECT .
A.  General Description.
Definit-ion ..........................              ,
Project Area.6
Institutional Aspects.6
Cooperatives .--                                            7
Credit Procedures                                           7
Provisions of Farm Inputs                                   7
B.  Detailed Features                                            9
The Lending Program .                  .                    9
Fianagement and Extension Services                         10
Project Cost Estimates  .              .11
Project Finance                                            12
Procurement and Disbursement                               12
IV.      ORGNMIZATION AND MANAGEIEUT    ....... ...........             13
Project Coordiration .13
CNCA                                                         13
Extension Services                                           14
Supply and Marketing Services                                15
This report is baded on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Kordik,  lawussi and von Oppenfeld (IDA) and Brick (Consultant) who
visited Niger in November 1968, and a subsequent visit by Mr. Hassid in
November 1969.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)       - 2 -
Page No.
V.      PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMERS AND GOVERNMENT'S
BENEFITS . .........................................      16
Production ........................................       16
Markets ...........................................       16
Prices  ..                                                17
Producer Benefits        ...............    17
Government Revenues                                       18
VI.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                                  18
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS                .                            19
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Background
Table 1: Cultivated Areas, Production, Yields
2.    Research and Extension Services
UNCC Organization Chart
3.    Marketing and Prices
b..   Credit and CNCA
Table 1: Lending Operations
Table 2: CNCA--Comparative and Forecast Income and Expenditure Accounts
Table 3: CNCA--Comparative and Forecast Balance Sheets
Table 4: CNCA--Project Credit Account--Cash Flow
Table 5: Detailed Projects Costs and Financing
5.   Project Coordinating Committee
6.    Farm Inputs and Outputs
Table 1: Budget for an Average GroundnutAlillet Farm
Table 2: Budget for an Average Cotton/Sorghum Farm
Table 3: Budget for 1tice/AIillet Farm
Tabla 4: Yield and Price Assumptions
7.      Table 1: Economic rate of Return
Table 2: Annual Project Acreages
MAPS
1.      Agricultural Production
2.      Agricultural Credit Project



NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Project for extending agricultural credit
to Niger farmers, for which an IDA credit of US$584,000 equivalent is proposed.
This would be the first agricultural project in Niger receiving Bank group
support. The proposed amount of the credit, the size of the average farm in-
volved (about 3 ha) and farmers' present annual incore (less than US$80), are
indicative of limitations for development finance for agriculture in Niger.
There is no immediately more attractive alternative.
ii.       Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, with groundnuts, cotton
and rice as the most important cash crops. The IDA credit would permit ac-
celeration of the groundnut, cotton and rice productivity program, started in
1965 with financial help from the European Economic Community (EEC).
iii.      The Republic of Niger realizes the importance of agricultural credit
to finance the increasing use of modern inputs. The main agency for agricul-
tural credit is the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) established
in 1967. Its limited operations, farm production credit and loans to cooper-
atives, did not generate sufficient income to cover its operating costs.
Recently, the Government enlarged the scope of CNCA's activities by authoriz-
ing its participation in the financing of the groundnut export organization.
This would enable CNCA to become a viable institution. Presently, its fi-
nancial resources are adequate but the Government would have to increase
CNCA's capital to meet projected requirements. The Project would also take
advantage of on-going technical assistance provided by France.
iv.       The Project would support a four-year lending program estimated at
CFAF 180 million (US$647,ooo), technical assistance and extension services
at an estimated cost of CFAF 62.2 million (US$224,000 equivalent). The main
components of the lending program are: CFAF 71.7 million (US$258,000) for
seasonal inputs and CFAF 108 million (US$389,000) for on-farm development and
scales to cooperatives. Of the total project cost of CFAF 2h2 million
(US$871,000), IDA would finance about 67% representing the estimated foreign
exchange component or CFAF 117 million (US$h21000) and costs of the extension
services estimated at CFAF 44.4 million (US$160,000).  Farmers would contri-
bute 8% of total project cost and CNCA 25%.
vY        The borrower would be the Republic of Niger, which would authorize
CNCA to retain as equity capital that part of the IDA credit earmarked for
its lending program amounting to CFAF 100 million (US$360,000). Farmers would
obtain medium-term loans from CNCh at 8% p.a. payable within four years
and short-term loans at 9% p.a. All credit to farmers would be in kind.



- ii -
vi.       Successful implementation of the credit program would depend on improving
and expanding the extension services.  Exctension to cotton farmers would be improved
by employing about 50 field agents, and about the same number of field workers would
provide assistance to groundnut farmers. Cooperation with the agencies concerned
would be assured through a newly established 'Project Coordinating Comnmittee."I
vii.      The strengthening of CNCA's equity capital with part of the IDA credit
together with the proposed relending terms and the extension of its activities
would enable CNCA to cover all its expenses, to accumulate reserves and to continue
its lending activities after project termination.
viii.     The Project's main benefit would be the sustained production increase of
groundnuts, cotton and rice by improving yields, which would in a time of declining
prices, offset farmers' income losses and reduction of Government revenues. It
would also expose subsistence farmers for the first time with improved farming
techniques and bring them into the cash economy. About 5U% of the Project expendi-
tures would be for additional current inputs and technical services. This resource
use would help to introduce Niger farmers to improved methods of farming. Because
of the almost immediate yield response to increased current input use the conven-
tional assessment of the project's benefits indicates an exceptionally high rate of
return. This is, however, very sensitive to lack of yield response and delays in
the acceptance of improved methods by farmers.  Nevertheless, even with conservative
assumptions on yields and timing the rate of return would still be about 20%.
ix.       There are no ready opportunities for agricultural development in Niger
other than the proposed continuation of the EEC-initiated productivity program
in the course of which the local credit institution would also be strengthened.
The Project would thus offer an economical resource use suitable for an IDA credit
of US$ 584,ooo.



NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      An agricultural credit project was identified by a Bank/IDA mission
to Niger in September 1966 and prepared by an FAO/Bank mission in November 1967,
consisting of Messrs. Brochu, Courbois and Haasjes. In June 1968, the Govern-
ment applied for an IDA credit to permit the I"Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole"
(CNCA) to continue its lending operations in the field of short- and medium-
term credit to farmers and cooperatives. The Project's total cost estimate,
covering a four-year period from 1969 to 1973 was CFAF 905.34 million (US$3.26
million).  IDA participation of CFAF 688.72 million (US$2.48 million) was
sought while the balance was to be provided by the Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(FED), CNCA resources and participating farmers.
1,02      The Project as presented by Government was not suitable for IDA
finance. Expected investment in agricultural machinery and purchases of inputs
were overestimated. The proposed use of 7,000 animal-drawn machinery units
and 9,000 t of fertilizer during the Project period seemed excessively optimistic
in view of the modest utilization of these inputs during the past years. Also,
CNCA's financial structure and scope of operations needed strengthening before
making it a viable institution; particularly, its lending program was too
restricted to permit recovery of its operating costs.
1.03      In consultation and agreement with the Government of Niger, the
original Project was substantially revised. Total project costs would now be
about US$871,000 including an IDA credit us$584,ooo. Main emphasis would be
on agricultural credit to members of credit societies and on agricultural
extension services. CNCA's activities would be enlarged through financing the
groundnut export organization.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consist-
ing of Messrs. Kordik, Mawussi and von Oppenfeld (IDA) and Brick (Consultant)
who visited Niger in November 1968 and a subsequent visit by Mr. Hassid in
November 1969.  The conclusion of negotiations with the Government was delayed,
pending a decision about the strengthening of ONCA's finances. A decision
satisfactory to the Association was reached in March 1970.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      Niger, a land-locked country south of the Sahara, suffers from high
transport costs, being 1,000 to 1,300 km away from ports of entry.  Agriculture



-2-
provides a living for more than 95% of Niger's total population of 3.9 million
which has been increasing at the annual rate of 2.5%. The average per capita
income is about US$87. From 1959 to 1966, the GDP at market prices deflated by
the price index for Niamey has been growing at an annual rate of 4.6%. Sub-
sistence farming concentrating on millet and sorghum cultivation is predominant,
while groundnuts, cotton and, to a lesser extent, rice are the most important
cash crops. Extensive livestock breeding is of importance in areas of marginal
rainfall, where nomadic herdsmen graze cattle, sheep and goats. Activities
outside agriculture are of minor importance and natural resources which could
be exploited are limited. The few industrial enterprises are mainly engaged
in processing agricultural raw materials. Recently, however, a uranium
deposit was discovered in the Sahara desert and investments in the mine and
concentration plant are proceeding satisfactorily.
Agriculture
2.02      General.   A more detailed background on agriculture is given in
Annex 1. Limited rainfall is the most serious constraint on agricultural
production. Average annual precipitation varies from less than 25 mm in the
North to 800 in the South (see Map 1), with sharply defined wet and dry seasons.
Crops which can be grown without irrigation are grains, pulses, groundnuts and
cotton. The total rice acreage, about 11,000 ha, receives additional water
through irrigation.
2.03      Most soils are sandy and reasonably fertile, subject to phosphate
fertilization.  Some alluvial soils suitable for cotton and rice production are
found along river valleys and natural depressions throughout the country, but
their total area is limited.  Only about 2% of Niger's total land area is cul-
tivated and about 6% is under fallow. Possibilities of cultivation expansion
appear to be limited, because of high population density in areas of better
soils and adequate rainfall.  In the most common rotations, three years of
grain and cash crops are followed by three or four years of fallow. Restora-
tion of soil fertility and soil moisture is left to nature which precludes
reduction of the fallow period.
2.O4      Land Tenure and Cultural Practices.   Land tenure follows the
traditional tribal system under which local chiefs nominally assign plots to
members of their community. However, land improved by the Government through
irrigation or other reclamation activities is leased by the State without rent
to progressive farmers. Moreover, increasing population pressure is leading
to a more permanent form of land ownership with holdings being transferred to
other family members, although land titles still do not exist.  Practically, all
work is done by hand labor and farm sizes vary according to the number of
persons per household and crops cultivated. Generally, 0.5 tol.0 ha are worked
by each member of the family, thus average holdings in the more productive areas
cover about 3 ha cultivated land with additional 3-4 ha fallow. The average
groundnut and rice acreage per farm is about 1  ha, while cotton averages only
0.5 ha per unit.



-3-
2.05      Prevailing cultivation techniques are primitive.  Hand tools are
used for all farm operations, including soil preparation and weeding. On-
farm and to-market transport is by pack-camels or donkeys. Use of organic or
inorganic fertilizers is limited to a few progressive farmers.
2.o6      Cash crop production on a significant level is fairly recent. Since
more than 95% of the population live on farms, trade of staple food is of minor
importance. Export possibilities of staple food are limited because neighbor-
ing countries have similar production patterns and high transport costs preclude
shipments to food deficient areas along the coast. Groundnuts, cotton and to
a limited extent rice have increased significantly since independence in 1960
and are the only crops which could be successfully marketed in the foreseeable
future. Livestock production, for which the country offers potential, is
poorly organized and is hampered by lack of adequate water supply and by
disease problems preventing adequate development of cattle exports.
2.07      Government's Policy and Priority in Agriculture.   The Government's
development strategy as formulated in the Perspectives Decennales de Developpe-
ment 1965-1974 and the more specific Plan Quadriennal 1965-1968 gives priority
to productivity improvement programs especially in agriculture. Village-based
cooperatives, grouped into units of viable size have played a major role in
these programs. The Government encourages the use of fertilizers, insecticides,
selected seeds and animal-drawn equipment, in association with intensified
research and extension efforts. French technical assistance has been an
important factor. Although some of the Plan's production and investment targets
seem optimistic, groundnut production already exceeded the 1974 target by 10%
in 1967 and rice reached 80% of the target in the same year. A new development
plan covering the period 1969 to 1974 emphasizes similar priorities.
2.08      Research.   Agricultural research is the responsibility of the
Institut de Rech=erches Agronomiques Tropicales et de Cultures Vivrieres (DAT)
which maintains two stations.  Under an agreement with France, which pays 50%
of research costs, expatriates assisted by Nliger personnel carry out effective
research work on all crops grown in the country. Their work is concentrating
on applied research, covering all aspects of possible productivity improvements.
Cotton research was started only three years ago and initial results although
not yet conclusive are promising. Fertilizer dosage on alluvial soils is being
studied.
2.09      Extension Services and Cooperatives.  The 1Ministry of Rural Economics
is primarily responsible for agricultural extension but its organization is
weak, particularly with regard to coordination of the various services. The
Development Commission maintains a Service d'Animation Rurale, i.e., an
agricultural promotion service, aiming at inducing and preparing farmers to
adopt technological improvements and to get organized into cooperatives.
Detailed technical advice is provided by independent services of the Ministry's
four departments, i.e., Agriculture, Livestock, Agricultural Engineering and
Forestry. Extension services for rice are provided by the Agriculture and
Agricultural Engineering Departments with the help of Chinese technicians.



-4-
The Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT) which
is under contract with the Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation (UNEC)
and partially financed by the Fonds d'Assistance' et de Cooperation (FAC), is
responsible for cotton extension. While the Ministry's services are inefficient,
CFDT services have better trained personnel, are more adequately supervised
and more successful. More details are given in Annex 2.
2.10      In 1962, the Government founded UNCC, which is intended to be the
country's cooperative union, to promote establishment of cooperatives and pro-
vide credit. However, since 1967, the credit function has been turned over to
the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CICA). Because farmers lack titles
to their land, adequate loan securities are difficult to obtain. To overcome
this problem  UNCC encouraged the formation of mutual credit societies, the
"Groupements MutuaXstes Villageois (GMV)" (see Annex 3), 1Pembers of the GMV
mutually guarantee repayment of individual loans (Annex 4).
2.11      Marketing.  Marketing of cash crops at the farm level was until
1962 exclusively in the hands of private traders.  Since 1962, cooperatives
have been increasingly involved in crop marketing, and the supply of inputs
and other basic needs. Exports of groundnuts are handled by the "Societie
Nigerienne de Commercialisation de l'Arachide (SONARA)," a joint private
state-owned export organization. Cotton exports are the responsibility of
CFDT. The Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits du Niger (CSPPN)
attempts to stabilize groundnut and cotton prices. Details are given in Annex
3.
Agricultural Credit
2.12      Since 1967, CNCA finances all credit needs at the farmers and
cooperatives' levels.  Two other banks, Banque de Developpement de la Republique
du Niger (BDRN) and Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO),
finance the stocks of cotton and groundnuts maintained by CFDT (cotton) and
SONARA (groundnuts) before export. They are not otherwise involved in agri-
culture. The prevailing commercial interest rates which are based on Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) rate of 3.5% p.a., currently
range between 6% and 8% p.a. Under the prevailing arrangements, the financing
of SONARA's short-term requirements, the most important and profitable banking
operation, is distributed between BDRN and BIAO in the proportion of 55% and
45%. These two institutions currently charge an interest rate of 5% p.a. plus
a monthly fee of 1/12%. BCEAO provides discounting facilities for up to 80%
of the volume of financing.  In M$arch 1970, as a meansof improving CNCAIs
operating results, the Government decided that CNCA would be given a share of
CFAF 250 million representing about 11% in the financing of groundnuts for
export from the 1970/71 campaign onwards (paras 4.02 and 4.o6).



- 5-
The Productivity Improvement Program
2.13      Faced with the loss of the preferential French market as a conse-
quence of France joining the Common Market, the Government was forced to
improve agricultural productivity to counter losses from income due to reduced
export prices. Fbllowing the recomnendations of the National Development Plan,
a program exphasizing productivity improvement was started in 1965. Acreage
expansion is no real alternative since most land in the prcductive zone is
already farmed. The productivity improvement program was assisted by the Fonds
Europeen de Developpement (FED) under the 1964 Younde convention and until
1968, FED had financed about US$1.5 million. These funds have been used for
subsidizing costs of cotton spraying services, marketing facilities as well as
inputs such as selected seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and animal-drawn equip-
ment. The agreement lapsed in May 1969, but disbursements of already earmarked
funds may continue for two more years. This will include the financing of about
80 cooperative warehouses in the Project area.
2.14      The FED productivity improvement program is limited to groundnuts and
cotton. A rice productivity improvement scheme is supported through Government
funds and Chinese technical assistance. The programs are implemented in discrete
steps:
(a)  introduction of selected seed to farmers, which had already
led to sizable increases in output;
(b) introduction of fertilizer to groundnut and rice growers
and pest control to cotton farmers;
(c) provision of animal-drawn equipment to improve cultivation
techniques, especially to accelerate soil preparation and
planting; and
(d) improvement of irrigation for rice farmers.
A final step contemplated for the future would be introduction of mixed farming,
i.e., livestock for meat and dairy production.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Definition
3.01      The project is the continuation and acceleration of the Government's
productivity improvement program through the provision of improved extension
services, current inputs, adequate credit and marketing facilities. It involves:
(i)  supply of about 2,000 units of ox-drawn implements, ox-carts
and spare parts;
(ii) supply of scales to new marketing cooperatives;
(iii) expansion of extension services by meeting costs of an
additional 100 agents;



- 6 -
(iv) supply of selected seeds, fertilizer and pesticides; and
(v) technical assistance to CNCA.
3.02      The Project aims at providing sustained increases in farmers' incomes
and in Government revenues at a time of decreasing groundnut and cotton prices.
Its main objective is to ensure continuation of groundnut, cotton and rice
production increases by improving yields. It covers the four-year period 1970/71
through 1973/74. Through CNCA and the cooperatives, further credit would be
provided to farmers for the purchase of farm implements and draft animals, seeds,
fertilizer and pesticides. Scales would be provided to improve the functioning
of cooperatives.  The Project would also contribute to strengthening UNCO's cotton
extension service and provide for a new UNCC extension branch dealing with groundnut
producers. Finally, by meeting the cost of a foreign expert, it would guarantee
continuation of technical assistance in training CNCA's local personnel.
Project Area
3.03      The Project is confined to areas where UNCC is already active or would
start operation during the Project period (see Yap 2). This covers most of the
groundnut producing areas and all of the cotton zone and rice producing regions.
Ecological conditions within the production zones vary little. Soils of groundnut
producing areas are sandy, poor in organic matter and phosphorus. Cotton culti-
vation is restricted to bands and pockets of alluvial soils in valleys and natural
depressions. Rice production, relying on irrigation, is concentrated along the
banks of the Niger River. Groundnut yields increase progressively from north
to south, due to higher rainfall. Fertilizer application to groundnuts would be
restricted to areas receiving 600 mm or more of rainfall because of poor response
in marginal rainfall zones.
3.04      The rural population in areas covered by the Project is officially
estimated to number 2.5 million, of which about 2 million live in the densely
populated regions of Maradi and Zinder, the centers of groundnut production.
The average size of a farming family is six persons, thus the total number of
farms is estimated at 410,000. Average farm size, including fallow land, is at
present 7 ha. Possibilities of expanding farm acreage are limited because of
high population density in areas favorable to agricultural production.
Institutional Aspects
3.05      The two institutions directly concermed with the Project are UNCC and
CNCA.  UNCC would continue to be responsible for preparing GMN input programs,
distributing farm inputs to cooperatives, and organization and supervision of
marketing.  In addition to providing extension services to cooperatives and
cotton farmers, UNCC would expand these activities to groundnut growers. FAC
would continue its technical assistance to UNCC during project execution.
Through the intermediary of the GMVs, CNCA would finance farmers' short- and
medium-term credit requirements under the productivity improvement program.
3.06      The Ministries of Rural Economics and Development would continue to
support the productivity improvement program through their rural development pro-
motion and agricultural extension services. To make this cooperation more effec-
tive, guidance would be provided through the Project Coordinating Conmittee.
Details are given in para 4.01 and Annex 5.



-7-
Cooperatives
3.07      Farmers' cooperatives are given a major role in the implementation of
the program under UNCC's guidance and supervision. The number of cooperatives
will be increased from 57 which are already operating to about 100. It is
through these cooperatives that farmers participating in the program benefit
from the supply of inputs, marketing facilities and technical guidance.  Coopera-
tives also assist farmers through the GMV's to obtain credit by preparing input
programs at village level.
3.08      UNCC has initiated and guided the establishment of cooperatives.  To
avoid setting up small cooperatives with low turnover and high administrative
cost, UNCC has grouped several villages into sections and six to seven sections
into a cooperative. Thus the average cooperative markets crops of the order of
CFAF 20 million (US$72,000). Annual dividends are paid to members, giving them
a strong incentive to sell to the cooperative. Administration is the responsibil-
ity of elected officials, assisted by one UNCC agent for each cooperative.
Recording procedures have been simplified by using symbols instead of figures,
permitting illiterate officials to keep track of crops delivered and money paid
out. Cooperatives' fixed assets are kept to a minimum and consist mainly of
scales, simple huts and concrete slabs for crop storing.
Credit Procedures
3.09      Credit requests are collected by the cooperative's UNCC agent at
village level several months prior to the planting season. In evaluating requests,
he is assisted by agents of the agricultural promotion and extension services.
Village programs are submitted to regional loan committees for approval (see Annex
4). Approved programs are transmitted to UNCC for carrying out necessary imports.
Upon delivery of inputs through cooperatives to village societies, the local
Chairman signs a receipt on behalf of the society, which becomes the loan document
between CNCA and participating farmers. For medium-term loans, a 20% farmer's
participation is required and is paid when the loan document is signed.
3.10      At harvest time, credit societies are informed about repayments due.
The society Chairman assisted by members of the Board supervises repayments at
the cooperative markets. Farmers receive full price for delivered crops and
repay their debts on the spot. Since society members are mutually liable,
defaults are recovered through the society's share in the cooperative's profits.
3.11      These procedures have worked reasonably well in the past and would be
continued under the Project. However, the 2C% downpayment requirement has
undoubtedly excluded many farmers from the implement credit program because of
their low cash position. For the Project, the 20% downpayment requirement has,
therefore, been reduced to 10%. Assurances on this point have been obtained from
the Govermnent during negotiation and, in view of limited experiences to date,
CNCA would, in agreement with MA, from time to time review downpayment require-
ments and adjust them to farmers' financial capacities. An added advantage of
the system is the small number of accounts - corresponding to the number of
credit societies - to be handled by CNCA.
Provisions of Farm Inputs
3.12      Seeds.  Full details of farm inputs are given in Annex 6.  The groundnut
seed program started several years ago and is now providing about 2,000 t of
(shelled) selected seeds to farmers. IRAT is in control of foundation seed



- 8 -
production and supervises mPrltiplication at farm level. Before distribution to far-
mers, seeds are treated with a fungicide dressing of which about 2.5 t per annum
are used in the Project area. Farmers are supplied at sowing time with quantities
required and return 150 kg at harvest time for each 100 kg seeds received. The
additional 50 kg adequately cover multiplication bonuses to seed producers, storage,
fungicides and interest. Since yields decline due to seed deterioration, farmers'
seeds need to be replaced every five years.
3.13      Cotton and rice seeds are not under UNCC's responsibility.  Distribution
is directly through CFDT for cotton and IRAT for rice seed and no special credit
facilities would be required. Improved cotton seed varieties, which will lead to
a production shift from 1-1/32" to 1-1/16" staple length in the coming years, are
presently promoted by CFDT.
3.1h      Fertilizer.  For groundnuts in zones of more than 600 mm rainfall, an
application of 75 kg superphosphate per ha is recommended. Present cultural practices
do not include soil inoculation with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Cince nitrogen appli-
cation for groundnuts is not economical in Niger, intrcduction of inoculation may
result in higher yields. Assurances have been obtained that inoculation tests would
be started by IRAT during the 1970 crop season. Cotton fertilization is still on an
experimental level and, under the Project, only irrigated cotton or soils of lower
fertility would receive fertilizers since lack of fertilizers is the major produc-
tion constraint only in these instances. Assurances have been obtained that cotton
fertilizer trials would be further pursued under IRAT supervisicn. Rice fertilization
would be based on 120 kg urea per ha and crop.
3.15      Farmers would purchase fertilizer on credit.  At present, about 80% of all
fertilizer used is applied to groundnuts. Total consumption would be expected to
rise from 500 t in 1968/69 to 800 t in 1973/7h, an increase of about 60%. Groundnuts
would continue to receive the bulk of the fertilizer while cotton fertilization would
only increase slowly depending on further results obtained by experimental stations.
Fertilizer is not produced locally and all of it would be imported.
3.16      All fertilizer is presently subsidized.  The Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(FED) pays a 40% subsidy on all fertilizers destined for groundnut and cotton produc-
tion. Existing agreements will cover the first two project years, and indications
are that the FED fertilizer subsidy will be continued thereafter. The Government is
presently subsidizing the cost of nitrogen fertilizer to rice farmers. Since nitrogen
application is profitable to rice farmers, assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that this subsidy would be graduaUly phased out over the Project period.
3.17      Insecticides.  Fungicides would be used for dressing of selected seeds at
the rate of 1,250 g per ton shelled groundnuts to prevent fungus damage. Control of
cotton pests is imperative. On average four treatments against insects with a DDT-
Endrin mixture are required per growing season. Spraying is carried out on a credit
basis by CFDT spraying units. Motorized knap-sack-sprayers were supplied on a grant
basis by FED and no additional sprayers would be needed during project execution.
Presently, FED is also subsidizing 3Q% of the insecticides cost. The Government
intends to phase out this subsidy after 1971/72. Rice cultivation is currently not
subject to any serious disease or insect problems.
3618      Implements.  Prior to the FED program instituted about six years ago,
importation of such implements as plows, seeders, cultivators, hoes and carts from
Senegal was highly successful.  However, ox-drawn equipment introduced under the FED
program was not well received; only about 1,000 units were sold. The problems were:



- 9 -
(a)  FED procureiient procedures limited imports to equipment
available in member countries, most of which was unsuitable; and
(b) extension demonstrations and maintenance services were inadequate.
The Project provides for imports of ox-drawn implements to be procured through
international competitive bidding and to be assembled by UNCC. They would be
supplied to farmers on credit. Servicing and maintenance of this equipment remains
UNCC's responsibility. Mobile workshops tour the country and under an ILO program,
local blacksmiths are trained to undertake simple repairs. As Niger's farmers still
live in relatively large family units, it can be expected that each piece of equip-
ment supplied under the Project would be utilized by several farmers.
3.19      Draft Animals.  There is plenty of cattle in Niger from which farmers
could select suitable animals. Training of draft animals is organized by UNCC at
training centers throughout the country. Future efforts by UNCC would be directed
at training animals on farms by owners under assistance by extension agents. CNCA
credit would be available to cover full cost of animal training at centers or for
the purchase of trained animals.
3.20      Scales.  Credit would be available to newly created cooperatives for the
purchase of scales. Under the existing organizational set up, each section would
be equipped with one scale. A fee of CFAF 35 per ton weighed would be charged to
cover repayments and maintenance charges.
B. Detailed Features
The Lending Program
3.21      Lending under the Project would consist of short-term and medium-term
operations.  Medium-term lending would be CFAF 65.2 million (US$235,000) for oxen
and animal-drawn implements including spares and ox-carts and would be CFAF 22.5
million (US$81,000) for scales to new cooperatives to facilitate and expand coop-
erative marketing of groundnut, rice and cotton under the Project. Short-term
credit of about CFAF 71.7 million (US$258,000) would be for seeds, fertilizer and
pesticides, including spray costs. Credit societies and their members would receive
credit only in kind and would repay their loans through cooperatives at harvest
time from crop proceeds. Repayment of credits for cooperative scales would be from
fixed fees per ton weighed, permitting credit recovery within four years.
3.22      The amounts required for short-term credit at the beginning of each season
would be reimbursed so that the additional working capital required to finance the
additional seasonal inputs needed as their use builds up would be their incremental
cost from one season to the next. The provision of additional seasonal inputs is an
essential part of the Project. Without it, investments in farm implements would
not be economically efficient and the Project would be ineffective; the estimated
cost of additional seasonal inputs required during the Project period would be
CFAF 71.7 million (US$258,000) (para 3.27). During negotiations, assurances have
been obtained that the Government would make provisions to assure beyond the Project
disbursement period continued availability and financing of seasonal inputs at a
level not lwoer than during the Project period.



- 10 -
3.23        CNCA would continue making short-term loans to credit societies at a
fixed commission of 6% equivalent to a 9% interest p.a. for loans repayable within
eight months. To offer more incentive to farmers, medium-term loans for farm
implements and oxen previously repayable within three years would be repaid within
four years at a fixed annual commission of v% on the original loan amount, which
is equivalent to an 8% yearly interest on the outstanding balance. Assurances
have been obtained on lending terms and conditons as well as on repayment periods
for medium-term credit.
Management and Extension Services
3.24        One of the causes of low farmerstparticipation in the development
program has been a lack of adequate extension services. French Technical Assist-
ance, combined with concentration on the training of high ranking Niger officials,
has provided management capacity at UNCC level while budgetary limitations
restricted the number of field staff. The present pattern of one expatriate
or Niger official supervising four to six extension workers should be changed
over the four-year period to a ratio of about 1:15 (Annex 2). A total of
CFAF 44.4 million (US$160,000) has been included in the Project cost to cover
the additional extension personnel during the disbursement period. At the end
of the disbursement period, incremental groundnut output attributable to the
Project would generate annual export tax revenues of about CFAF 26 million.
This would permit Government to cover the cost of the additional extension
service at the end of the period (CFAF 20.7 million per annum).
3.25        The UNCC manager has been also appointed manager of CNCA.  Since the
Project credit program would be limited to zones of UNCC activities, such joint
management is desirable for the time being. However, since CNCA's future
operations would be extended to cover agricultural credit requirements through-
out the country, appointment of a separate CNCA manager would eventually become
necessary. Under the French Technical Assistance Agreement, CNCA has obtained
the services of a banking adviser until 1970/71. His work with CNCA is crucial,
because of the present manager's Lack of banking experience, as well as the
need for continuous on-the-job training of local personnel. An extension of
his assignment until 1972/73 is uncertain. Hence, the foreign exchange cost
of CFAF 17.8 million (US$64,000) for the two-year assignment of an expatriate
banking expert has been included in the Project cost.



-11_
Project Cost Estimates
3.26      The estimated total project cost would be CFAF 242.1 million
(US$871,000) of which CFAF 117.7 million (US$424h,coo) or 49% would be foreign
exclhange. Detailed cost estimates are as follows:
CFAF 4Itllion          US$'OCO            Percent
For-                 For-             1/    2/
Local   eign   Total  Local  eign  Total  TPC- FEC-
I. Dn,plements and Draft
Animals
Equipment, carts,
spares               5.o    49.7   54.7   18.0   179.0  197.0  -       91
Oxen                  31.0      -    31.0  111.0      -    111.0  -
Sub-total         36.o    49.7  85.7  129.0   179.0  308.0  35    57
II.  Scales to Cooperatives        22.5   22.5    -       81.0   81.0   9   100
TTI. Incremental VIorking
_Capital
Fertilizer              _      9.7    9.7    -       35.0   35.0  -    100
Seeds                4O.o       -    40.0  144.0      -    144.0  -      -
Insecticides and
Spray cost           4.0    18.0   22.0   14.0    65.0   79.0  -       82
Sub-total        44.0   27.7   71.7  158.0   100.0  258.0  30    39
IV. Technical Services
CICA technical
assistance          -      17.8   17.8    -       64.0   64.o  -    100
M.CC: additicnal ex-
tension            44.4      -     44.4  16o.o       -   16o.o  -      _
(personnel)   -                                      -    6.   -
Sub-total        44.4    17.8   62.2  160.0    64.o  224.0  26    29
TOTAL:          12h.4   117.7  242.1  447.o   424.0  871.0 100    49
-otal project cost.
-6oreign exchange cost (see also Annex 4, Table 5).



- 12 -
Project Finance
3.27      The Project would be financed as follows:
Farmers     CNCA    IDA Credit   Total
----CFAF Million------------
I.  Implements and Draft Animals       20.5      15.5       49.7        85.7
II.  Scales for Cooperatives             -          -        22.5        22.5
III.  Incremental Working Capital         -        4X.0       27.7        71.7
IV.  Technical Services                  -          -        62.2        62.2
Tota'l                        20.5      59.5     162.1        242.1
(in uS$'000)              (73)      (214)     (584)        (871)
Percent                        8         25       67           100
The farmers' contribution of CFAF 20.5 million (US$73,000) would cover 50% of
draft animal and 10,% of implement costs. CNCA would contribute CFAF 59.5 million
(US$214,000) which would cover the full cost of seeds and spraying. The proposed
IDA credit of CFAF 162 million (US$584,OOG) would cover the fertilizer and pesti-
cide cost of CNCA's incremental working capital requirement, the foreign exchange
cost of farm implements, scales, and the total cost of CNCA technical assistance
and of UNCC's additional extension services. The Government would be the borrower
and bear the foreign exchange risk. It would make available CFAF 100 million
(US$360,000) to CNCA for short- and medium-term credit on terms and conditions set
out in para 3.28.
3.28      The Government would authorize CNCA to retain the total part of IDA
credit earmarked for its lending operations amounting to about OFAF 100 million
(US$360,000) as equity capital (see para 4.06). The balance of the IDA credit
CFAF 62.2 million (US$224,000) to CNCA for technical assistance and to UNCC
for additional extension services would be a Government grant.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.29      Since sales of equipment and inputs under the productivity improvement
program were not sizable in the past, private dealers were not interested in
imports, leaving the entire procurement to UNCC. Implements, scales, fertilizer
and pesticides required under the Project would, therefore, be centrally procured
by UNCC on the basis of international competitive bidding. Disbursements of IDA
funds would cover the CIF cost of fertilizer, pesticides, farm implements and
scales as well as the actual foreign exchange cost of CNCA technical assistance.
Disbursement of IDA funds would also finance the full costs of the additional
extension services against appropriate documentation. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that CNCA would maintain separate accounts for all
Project operations.



- 13 -
3.30      Disbursement of project funds over the Project period would be
approximately as follows:
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
---------------CFAF Million-
Farmers' Contribution        -       5.1        6.0       8.5       20.5
CNCA Resources              41.0     4.9        6.2       7.4       59.5
IDA Credit                  10.7    30.0       55.9      65.5     162.1
Total                   51.7    40.0      69.0       81.4    242.1
IV. ORRGNIZATION AND MANAGEMET
Project Coordination
4.01      Successful project execution would depend upon close cooperation
between the Government, CNCA and UNCC. Fbr this purpose, the Government has
agreed to set up a "Project Coordinating Committee," prior to effectiveness, to
obtain immediate action whenever required.  The Committee would be chaired by
the Minister of Rural Economics, the Manager of CNCA/UNCC acting as secretary
and include senior officials from the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, Finance,
the Plan Organization, CSPPN, SONARA and CFDT. Most of the members of the Project
Coordinating Committee are already members of the Administrative Councils of both
institutions. Cooperation between CNCA and UINCC would be further ensured by the
fact that they have the same manager.  Details on the Project Coordinating Committee
are given in Annex 5.
CNCA
4.02      Operations.  Following a ruling by Niger's Supreme Court, enforcing
separation of UNCC's banking activities from its other operations, CNCA was esta-
blished in October 1967. (Details on CNCA are given in Annex 4). Its responsi-
bility is to provide credit to farmers, mainly for productive purposes, but under
Government instructions, it also extends social credit. Its resources include
budget appropriations, discounting facilities with the Central Bank and short-term
deposits frcm Government agencies. Its main operations consist of agricultural
loans: short-term (8 months) and medium-term ( 4  years) at fixed commissions
equivalent to interest rates of about' 9% and 8% p.a. respectively and marketing
loans to agricultural cooperatives at an interest rate of 7% p.a. The prevailing
interest rates on short- and medium-term loans are adequate and in line with
commercial interest rates in the country (see para 2.12). Assurances were obtained
that the prevailing rates will not be changed without IDA's approval. In March
1970, the Government decided that CNCA's activities would be enlarged by the
financing of groundnuts for export (see paras 2.12 and 4.06).
4.03      CNCA has reduced social credit activities, which amounted to CFAF 196
million under UNCC management in 1965/66, to CFAF 29 million in 1968/69. Assur-
ances have been obtained during negotiations that CNCA would not continue social
credit activities except in a trustee capacity, with losses for Government account
and adequate compensation by the Government for services rendered. Assurances
have also been obtained that its constitution would not be changed or amended
unless agreed with IDA.



- 14 -
4.04      Management.  As CNCA expands its credit activities throughout the
country, a manager independent from UNCC would eventually be needed. Assurances
have been obtained that a qualified Niger official would be trained to take over
as manager not later than 1973. As already indicated in para 3.25, the services
of a banking expert would continue to be provided for the entire project disburse-
ment period. His role would be to assist the present manager and to provide on-
the-job training for the future manager as well as the personnel of CNCA.
4.05      Since CNCA is not involved in preparing credit requests and deals mainly
with GMV's rather than individuals (see credit procedures paras 3.09 to 3.11),
staff requirements can be kept low. Training and qualifications of CNCA personnel
are satisfactory.
h.o6      Future Finances.  In connection with CNCA's requirements and the proposed
project, the Government of Niger has recently increased CNCA's capital from
CFAF 67.4 million to CFAF 117.4 million with the proceeds of a loan from the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). In addition, the Govern-
ment of Niger has agreed to further increase CNCA's capital by another CFAF 50
million on or before October 1, 1970 so as to enable it to participate in the
financing of the groundnut export organization (paras 2.12 and 4.02). To further
increase CNCA's resources, the lending portion of the IDA credit amounting to
about CFAF 100 million (US$360,ooo) (see para 3.28) would be passed on to CNCA
as equity. This would enable CNCA to continue its lending program beyond the
disbursement period of the Project. Income and expenditure forecasts shown in
Annex 4, Table 2, indicate that CNCA would be able to cover operating expenses,
to make provisions for bad and doubtful debts and to build up adequate reserves.
4.07      Accounts and Audit.  Auditing would be carried out by an auditor already
selected but not yet appointed by the Ministry of Finance. The auditor appears
to be well qualified and proposed auditing arrangements would be acceptable to DA.
Assurances have been obtained that the appointment of the auditor would be made
prior to effectiveness of the credit. Further assurances were obtained that
CNCA would retain at all times an auditor satisfactory to the Bank.
Extension Services
4.08      UNCC would be responsible for providing extension services in the
Project area and would be supported by the Ministry of Agriculture's services.
Its operations are described in more detail in Annex 2. The extension services'
objective would be to increase the number of farmers using modern inputs, to
assist them in obtaining inputs on credit and finally to guide and supervise
them in their proper use.
4.09      Two UNCC divisions would be responsible for extension.  One division
managed by CFDT under an agreement with the Government provides the extension
service for cotton growers. The present organization is strong at management
level with seven section chiefs (five expatriates), but weak at field level,
employing only 30 extension workers. Another 20 extension workers are presently
undergoing training and would take up their field assignments during 1969/70. An
extension density of one field worker for about 100 farmers would be the target.
Accordingly, 50 additional extension agents would be employed during project
execution. Present management arrangements are satisfactory and would provide
adequate training and supervision of all field personnel. Assurances have been
obtained that the agreement between the Government and CFDT would be continued
until June 197k.



- 15 -
4.10       The second division of UNCC deals principally with providing extension
to the present 57 cooperatives which will be increased to 100. Extension agents
assigned to cooperatives assist in their business transactions, arrange necessary
CNCA contacts and help credit societies and farmers in preparing annual input
programs. The agents' work is supervised by 15 district officers, who report
to five regional officers. Total staff of this division numbers 99, including 17
expatriates, and its distribution shows similar deficiencies in the ratio of
supervisory personnel and field workers (see para h.09). About 40 cooperative
extension agents will be needed for new cooperatives to be created during the
Project period. To accelerate inpuit use by groundnut farmers, 50 additional
field agents would be employed during the Project period. Adequate training of
the additional personnel would be assured through UNOC's well qualified supervisory
staff. Extension to the 1,000 rice farmers, who would participate in the Project,
is adequately covered by extension staff trained under the Chinese Technical
Assistance Program, and already assigned to their posts (see Annex 6, para 21).
Assurances have been obtained that expansion of the extension service would be in
line with project requirements and would be continued beyond the Project disburse-
ment period. Details are given in Annex 2.
4.11       UNCC's annual expenditures are present47y covered by Government budget
allocations. The Government contribution, which amounted to CFAF 145 million in
1967/68, covers all expenditures, including salaries of present staff, and vehicle
operation. Assurances have been obtained that UNCC would continue to receive
the Government's financial support, and that allowances would be made to compensate
for increasing expenditures during and after the Project disbursement period.
Supply and Marketing Services
4.12       In view of the relatively small volume of inputs involved under the
Project, UNCC would remain responsible for carrying out all procurements.
UNCC agents would continue to check and collect farm input demands and organize
distribution. This system functioned satisfactorily during the last years, and
led to reduction of surplus stock, which plagued UNCC at the beginning of its
operations, as well as to low distribution costs.
4.13       The Project area's farmers would continue marketing their crops
through cooperatives. The cooperative marketing system works well and offers
adequate incentives (para 3.08) to assure farmer's participation. During the
Project period, cooperative activites would be exoanded into new areas shown in
Map 2. The expansion program, which would be geared to the availability of
qualified extension staff, aims at establishing 43 additional cooperatives by
1973/74.
h.14       Cooperatives sell groundnuts to the Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisa-
tion de l'Arachide (SONARA) and cotton to the Compagnie Francaise pour le
Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT). Both agencies are marketing organizations
operating at national level.
4.15       SONARA, established in 1963, is a marketing company of joint Government
and private ownership. Its objective is to purchase groundnuts from cooperatives
and private merchants and to carry out exports. To achieve this, it organizes
storage, stock finance, shipment and maintains an office in Paris. SORAIA is
well managed and equipped to market the Project's incremental production.



- 16 -
4.16       Cotton exports ;;ould continue to be CFDT's responsibility.  Since
most French textile companies are CFDT shareholders, excellent relations between
the export agency and the industry have been established. Niger's cotton exports
would benefit from this arrangement and no additi cnal marketing arrangements to
cope with the Project's incremental production would be necessary.
h.17       Rice would be sold from cooperatives to local dealers and would go
into the local markets.  Exoortable surpluses, which are anticipated only in
small quantities and on a temporary basis, would be handled by UNCC directly.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS. FARIkERS AND GOVERdIENT'S BENEFITS
Production
5.01       During the four-year period, as much as 25% of the farmers living in
the areas covered by the Project are expected to benefit from it. The largest
portion (96%) of them would cultivate groundnut (about 1 ha each) as a commercia:L
crop, in addition to millet (2 ha) as their subsistence crop. The balance (4%)
would grow cotton ( ha each) and less than 1% would grow rice as their market
crop (see Annex 6, tables 1, 2 and 3).
5.02       The incremental production attributable to the Project (Annex 7) is
estimated to be as follows:
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
----tonF----------------
Groundnuts (shelled)           5,040     8,720      11,280    13,100
Cotton (seed cotton)             400       850       1,300     1,760
Rice (paddy)                      80       300         640       980
5.03       The Project's groundnut production would increase by about 16% from
80,000 tons in 1968/69 to about 93,000 tons at the end of the Project period in
1973/74; cotton production would increase from 2,000 tons to 3,000 tons; and rice
would grow from 1,700 tons to 2 700 tons by 1973/74.  Groundnut exports would
increase by about 10%, through the Project's incremental production, and cotton
exports by about 20%. Increased rice production would be used for satisfying
growing domestic consumption.
Markets
5.04       Details on marketing and prices are given in Annex 3.  Incremental
groundnut output would be exported to European markets, mainly as shelled nuts.
SONARA (Niger's export agency), which maintains an office in Paris and effective
contacts in Common Markcet countries, is responsible for these transactions.
5-05      "Lxport marketing of cotton fiber is carried out by CFDT, under a long-
term contract with Government which includes purchase from cooperatives, processing
and exports. CFDT, which is jointly owned by the French Government and French
textile industries, sell cotton under contracts with industrial cotton uEers.



- 17 -
5.06      Present rice production is about in balance with domestic consumption and
the Project's increnental output would meet increased demands arising as a conse-
quence of population growth. Niger has a potential for increasing rice production,
but export possibilities to neighboring countries are limited because the geographic
position of Niger causes high transport cost. Domestic consumption, however, could
be increased from the presently low per capita consumption of less than h kg per
annum if consumer prices were to be reduced. While leaving an adequate margin to
the farmer the Government has agreed to review paddy prices and to gradually lower
them from CFAF 16,500 per ton to CFAF 15,000. Improved marketing through the
cooperatives should permit an even more substantial consumer price reduction.
Prices
5.07      Government, in consultation with the export agencies, fixes producer
prices annually, on the basis of expected export prices. Until 1967, Niger's
producers benefitted from export prices above world markets, because of preferential
marketing agreements until 1965 with France and compensation payments granted there-
after by FED. Since 1968/69, no subsidies have been involved and the difference
between c.i.f. European port prices and Niger producer prices has fully covered
marketing and transport costs, Government tax on groundnut, and adequate profit
margins to the marketing agencies.
5.08      Groundnut farm prices which were raised to CFAF 20,000 per ton in 1969,
after the devaluation of the franc, are likely to be reduced again to their 1968
level of CFAF 18,000 per ton, because world market prices are projected to decline
from their temporary high in 1969 to 1968 levels. Producer prices of cotton are
likewise expected to decline from CFAF 28,500 per ton in 1968 and 1969 to CFAF 27,000
by 1975. This decline is smaller than the expected overall decline in cotton prices,
due to a gradual shift in Niger's production from 1-1/32" to 1-1/16"' staple length
cotton (para 3.13). Details of prices are shown in Annex 3.
Producer Benefits
5.09      The majority of farmers would only benefit from short-term credit for
simple inputs: selected seed, fertilizer and cotton insecticides, and from concen-
trated extension services. Medium-term credit would only be required by the small
number of farmers purchasing ox-drawn implements. The benefits to both types of
farmers have been estimated on the basis of farm model budgets shown in Annex 6.
Several of these models are summarized below; those relating to the purchase with
medium-term credit of ox-drawn implements for cultivation of the three commercial
crops, and that representing use of short-term credit for selected seed and
fertilizer.



- 18 -
iPledium-Term Credit             Seasonal Credit onily
Commercial Crops        Groundnut   Cotton   Rice, irrigated,  Groundnut-selected
double-cropped        seed and
fertilizer only
Area Cultivated
per farm, ha               3          2             2                  3
of which Commercial
Crops, ha               1           i             2                   1
-________-- _------------OCFAF---------------------------
Investment; Polyculteur
and Oxen            13.OOO    17,700          159500
Annual Net Cash Income
Before Project           12,980      4,550        21,650              12,980
After Project            30,220     28,550         76,850             20,220
Increment               17,240      24,000        55,200               7,240
Debt Service             4,6h0       9,410        18,225               1,600
Increment after Debt
Service          12,600      14,590        36,975               5,6ho
On the input side, the budgets consider only cash inputs and investment costs
without charges for family labor. On the output side, no cash returns have been
considered for 1,200 kg of millet, sorghum or rice which farmers would retain for
family subsistence. For all models, incremental returns after debt service offer
adequate incentives for the farmers to invest. It must be appreciated, however,
that due to constraints of their resources, cash income levels of these farmers
are extremely low.  They are basically subsistence farmers; even after the Project,
their annual incomes in most cases would still- remain below US$100.
Government Revenues
5.10      Currently, an export tax of CFAF 2,250 per ton groundnuts is charged.
If this rate would be reduced to CFAF 2,000 per ton over the four-year period of
the Project in keeping with the projected decline of groundnut prices, the incre-
mental production would generate during the same period tax revenues amounting to
CFAF 76 million (US$27h,000).
VI. B3NEFTTS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Incremental foreign exchange earnings attributable to the Project at full
development would amount to about CFAF 460 million per annum (US$1.68 million)
(groundnuts CFAF h02.5 million, cotton CFAF 57.5 million). The Project would expose
a large number of farmers for the first time to improved farming techniques,
introduce them to the use of farm inputs, and acquaint them with productive use of
credit. Introduction of draft animals would be a first step towards developing



- 19 -
desirable mixed-farming units. Aniral-drawn equipment would not only lead to
improved farming practices but would also contribute to establishing entrepreneur-
ship in the form of custom and maintenannce services.
6.02      Technical services to farmers would be improved and should contribute
significantly to increases in production. Although short-term credit would still
be predominant, medium-term lending would become more significant, thereby causing
CNCA to develop increasing responsibilities as an agricultural development bank.
6.03      About 50% of the Project expenditures would be for additional current
inputs and technical services. Because of the almost immediate yield response
to increased current input use, the conventional assessment of the Project's
benefits indicates an exceptionally high rate of return; more than 100%. This
return is, however, very sensitive to lack of yield response and delays in the
acceptance of improved methods by farmers. Nevertheless, on the basis of a yield
increase of only 8% instead of the expected 16% and with a delay in benefits by a
full crop year, the rate of return would still be about 20%. In both cases,
price declines for groundnut, cotton and rice have been assumed, taking into account
projected 1975 world market prices (Annex 6, table 4). Though smll the Project
should make a significant contribution to the agricultural development of Niger.
In the absence of any other ready possibilities of high priority for such develop-
ment the Project would constitute a good use of resources.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During credit negotiations agreement was reached, amongst others, on
the following principal points:
(a)  CNCA's downpayment requirements for medium-term loans would
be reduced and reDayment periods would be extended to four
years (paras 3.11 and 3.23);
(b)  the Government would authorize CNCA to retain the IDA credit
earmarked for its landing program as equity capital (para 3.28); and
(c) expansion of the extenoion service would be in line with project
requirements and would be continued at project levels beyond
the Project disbursement period (para 4.10).
7.02      Conditions of the credit effectiveness are:
(a)  the establishment of the "Project Coordinating Committee"
(para h.01); and
(b)  the appointment of CNCA's auditor (para 4.07).
7.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$584,000 for a term of 50 years including a 10-year grace period.
May 15, 1970



ANNEC 1
Page 1
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.       Of Niger's population of about 3.9 million, more than 95% are
employed in agriculture and contributed 59% to the GDP (1966). Agricultural
commodities are the country's sole exports with groundnuts, groundnut oil
and groundnut cakes, accounting for 66% of total export earnings (1966-69).
Livestock and livestock products contributed 15%; cotton, grains, vegetables
and dried fish constituted the balance. Imports of sugar, beverages and
tobacco represented only 12% of total imports during the same period. Studies
and experiments are underway to promote domestic sugar and tobacco production,
which would eventually lead to reduced imports and possibly to additional
exports.
2.       Three factors have the greatest bearing on agricultural development.
Limited rainfall, combined with high evaporation, narrows the choice of crops
which can be successfully grown. Average annual precipitation varies from
less than 25 mm in the North to 800 mm falling only in a small area near the
Nigerian-Dahomey-Niger border. Rainfall occurs mainly during a six months
season from April to October, with peaks in July through September. Drought
occurs on average every four years, the last in 1968. However, losses due
to drought are not as severe as in other African countries5 in effect, losses
rarely exceed 10% of average harvests. Temperatures range from an average
minimum of 20C in January to an average maximum of 440C in May.
3.       Irrigation to overcome seasonal shortages of rainfall is practiced
along river banks, but unfavorable topography is limiting large-scale extensions.
Preliminary studies for some irrigation projects show a low economic return
because of high construction costs. Some of the more promising projects are
under FED consideration.
4.       Soils are the second factor handicapping agricultural production.  Most
soils are sandy and poor in organic matter and phosphorus. More fertile
alluvial soils can be found along the country's rivers and in natural depressions
and gullies. Poor soil quality restricts cotton production to about 20,000 ha
of better alluvial soils.
5.       Soil fertility could be improved through fertilizer in areas receiving
600 mm or more rainfall, or through organic manure application. Fertilizer,
all of which has to be imported, is charged with high transport costs. The
high price combined with reduced effectiveness due to moisture shortage limits
its usefulness in restoring soil fertility.  Use of organic manure presupposes
mixed farming, with intensive animal husbandry. The Government has recognized
the need of promoting mixed farming and introduction of draft oxen which would
oblige farmers to give more attention to their animals, would be a first step
in this direction.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The third constraint on agricultural development is caused by
high internal and external transport costs. Distances from production
areas to the nearest sea port average about 1,400 km. Studies are underway
to determine possible navigation on the Niger, but even if navigation
should become a reality, Zinder and Maradi, the major groundnut producing
regions, are 900 km and 600 km distant from the river.
Main Crops
7.        On sandy soils agriculture is principally a two-crop culture.
Groundnuts are grown as a cash crop in rotation with food grains, mainly
millet and sorghum. A three-year cultivation period is usually followed
by three to five years fallow to permit fertility and moisture restoration.
On alluvial soils, cotton is cultivated or where irrigation water is avail-
able, rice is grown.  Small quantities of cassava, cowpeas and vegetables
are also produced by most farms. Table 1 gives details on production,
areas and yields of principal crops.
Groundnuts
8.        Groundnut production is centered in the Regions of Tahoua, Maradi
and Zinder, which accounted for about 88% of total production. Details of
groundnut production, including areas under cultivation, production and
yields are given in Table 1. Groundnut area was about 357,000 ha in
1967, average yields reached 834 kg/ha in the same year, resulting in a
total production of 298,000 t.
9.        One reason for the low output is the poor standard of cultivation
practices. Soil preparation is carried out in June, but only after sub-
sistence plots have been taken care of, and is immediately followed by
planting. Since seeding is carried out by hand, optimum plan populations
are rarely reached. During the growing season, fields are weeded once or
twice. Harvest starts in November and usually lasts until February.
Economic responses to the recommended rate of 75 kg superphosphate per ha
is only significant in areas receiving a minimum of 600 mm rainfall.
Yield increases from fertilization are about 100 kg/ha. A 200 kg/ha yield
increase of millet, which follows in the rotation, is caused by the re-
sidual effects of the preceeding phosphate fertilization. Nitrogen or
potash fertilization have not shown significant yield increases. The yield
potential of new varieties, bred by IRAT in cooperation with other West
African research stations, is about 20% higher than that of local seeds.
Deterioration of seed quality and consequently reduced yields make it
necessary to change seeds every five years. All selected seed distributed
through UNCC receives fungicide dressing.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Cotton
10.       Cotton production was introduced to Niger only during the last
15 years. The region of Tahoua is the center of cotton production, account-
ing for about 93% of Niger's total production. Details of cotton produc-
tion including areas, production and yields are given in Table 1. In 1967/68,
about 17,200 ha were under cotton. Average yields were low at about 360 kg
seed cotton per ha. Total production in the same year reached 6,200 t.
11.       Cotton cultivation faces identical problems as groundnut produc-
tion. Since cotton is grown on heavy alluvial soils, delays in land
preparation become critical and contribute to depressed yields. Inaccurate
seeding, resulting in poor stands, combined with late planting, further
reduces yields. Insect control is presently practiced on 1,000 ha only.
Insect damage results in production losses, officially estimated at 50 to
60% of the total crop annually. Supply of seeds is in the hands of CFDT,
which presently promotes the variety Allen 333. This variety produces lint
of excellent quality, with a staple length of 1-1/32 to 1-1/16 inches.
Due to hand picking overall cotton quality is good and 99.8% of the produc-
tion are exported as first quality.
Rice
12.       The bulk of Niger's rice crop is produced along the Niger River
valley. The two floods of the Niger River permit double cropping. Details
on areas, yields and production are given in Table 1.
13.       Rice, mainly long grain varieties, is transplanted.  Chinese
technical assistance has shown good results in regard to cultivation tech-
niques and fertilizer applications, which were readily accepted by farmers.
Some farmers are obtaining already 5-6 t paddy per ha and harvest. The
recommended fertilizer dosage is 120 kg urea per ha. Pests are absent,
but improved weeding could lead to still higher yields.
Land Tenure
14.       Farmers do not have titles to the land they cultivate.  Land
titles are only available in urban areas. The Government owns all lands
which had been subjected to state sponsored land improvements. Farmers are
permitted to continue working fields previously owned by them without pay-
ing rent, but are evicted if their performance is below farming standards.
Land around villages is allocated to farmers by the chiefs and remains
thereafter with the family. Farm sizes are usually geared to the family's
working capacity, i.e., based on hand labor available.  On average, 3 ha
are cultivated by a family. Due to population pressure in areas of higher
rainfall, most land within walking distance of villages if farmed. Pros-
pects of expanding cultivation are limited and further jeopardized by the
traditional grazing right of Niger's nomadic herdsmen, who move their herds
throughout the country.



ANNE 1
Page 4
Processing
15.       Cotton processing is in the hands of CFDT, which owns three
ginneries. Increased cotton production could be easily processed, since
the existing plants operate only at 30% of their capacity. About 25,000 t
groundnuts are processed annually at local oil mills, mainly for domestic
consumption. A rice mill owned by the Government works below capacity and
would be in position to mill additional rice production generated by the
Project. Small rice mills exist in most villages and cater for the farmers'
immediate needs.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CULTIVATED AREAS, PRODUCTION, YIELDS
1963     1964     1965      1966     1967
Crops
Millet-Area-l,OOO ha                1,887    1,777    1,810    1,743    1,865
Production - 1,000 t                979    1,013       790      842    1,000
Yields - kg/ha                      519       570      h36      483       536
Sorghum-Area-1,000 ha                 485       453      465       546      530
Production - 1,000 t                352       315      266      277       3h2
Yields - kg/ha                      725       695      570       507      645
Cowpeas-Area-1,000 ha                 506       493      432       608      689
Production - 1,000 t                 80        66       48       68        77
Yields - kg/ha                      158       133      111       112      112
Cassava-Area-1,000 ha                     16       17       19        21       24
Production - 1,000 t                  136       149      151       149      169
Yields - kg/ha                      8,500    8,764    7,947    7,095    7,040
Rice-Area-l,000 ha                        9         9        9         9       11
Production - 1,000 t                   10        12       12        20       22
Yields - kg/ha                      1,100    1,300    1,300    2,200    2)000
Groundnuts-Area-1,000 ha                319       293      341       339      357
Production - 1,000 t                  220       184      277       288      298
Yields - kg/ha                        689       628      812       849      834
Cotton-Area-1,000 ha                      13       15       16        14       14
Production - 1,000 t                    6         6        7         6        8
Yields - kg/ha                        460       430      430       390      570
Source: I/dnistere de 1'Economie Rurale
Direction de l'Agriculture
May 14, 1970



ANNEX 2
NIGER                           Page  1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RESEARCH AID EXTENSION SERVICES
A. Background
1.        Niger's natural environment limits the choice of crops to be
grown. Since cash crops like groundnuts and cotton were introduced only
relatively late (after World War II), research was concentrated on improv-
ing subsistence crops. The Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
(IRAT) was entrusted with this work several decades ago and is still con-
tinuing. Extension follows French patterns, i.e., individual services
are covering separate technical aspects. The weakness of this system has
led to UNCC taking over more and more extension activities.
B. Research
2.        IRAT's research activities benefit from an agreement between
Niger and France under which research costs are shared on a 50:50 basis.
The Institut maintains headquarters in Niamey, two stations, 6 sub-stations
and a large number of on-farm trial plots throughout the country. Present
work is limited to applied research, concentrating on variety, fertiliza-
tion, plant control, and cultivation trials. Research benefits from close
cooperation with specialized research institutes in other West African
countries. Close relations have been established with the Institut de
Recherches pour le Coton et les F'ibres Textiles (IRCT) to carry out cotton
research. Present research programs are adequate for supplying basic infor-
mation to the extension service.  A serious setback of the system is the
lack of qualified Niger personnel, who could eventually take over from the
expatriates, now in charge.
C. Extension
3.        The Ministry of Agriculture is mainly responsible for extension,
which is presently organized into four independent sections, as follows:
- Agricultural Extension
- Livestock Extension
- Forestry Extension
- Agricultural Engineering Extension
The Agricultural Development Promotion Service is supervised by the Com-
mission of Development.  In addition to the  Sinistry's services, UNCC is
responsible for cotton extension and technical assistance for and through
cooperatives.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The basic philosophy of the Agricultural Development Promotion
Service (Animation Rurale) is to acquaint farmers with Government programs
and services. The service is trying to overcome farmers' mistrust of
Government officials, whom they readily identify with tax collectors.
Farmers are instructed about development programs, how to participate and
what results to expect. The service has a staff of about 60, active in
14 districts. The service is considered useful by the Government but its
success is difficult to judge.
5.        The Ministry's Agricultural Extension Service performance is
poor. Extension agents are assigned mainly according to political consid-
eration. Its effectiveness is also hampered by lack of transportation and
the absence of adequate supervision. Only in zones of UNCG operation is
an increased activity of extension agents noticeable. Total staff of the
service is as follows:
12 University and Highschool graduates (of which 2 expatriates)
20 Technical assistants
180 Field Agents
6.        UNCC has a twofold extension responsibility.  It has entered an
agreement with CFDT which directs cotton extension as an autonomous sec-
tion of UNCC.  Besides extension CFDT also provides seeds, carries out
spraying operations, processes seed cotton and finally exports cotton lint
and seed. A field staff of 30 extension workers is supervised by seven
section chiefs, of which 2 are from Niger.
7.        Although extension agents are available to all cotton farmers
in the growing areas, extension efforts are concentrated on selected pro-
gressive farmers. It is a CFDT policy to assign one extension agent to
about 100 selected farmers who are willing and capable of accepting advice
on cultivation practices and spraying requirements. A larger number of
farmers receives at the same time only advice on improved cultivation
practices. Concentrated extension efforts under Niger conditions are
necessary for about five years.  After this period most farmers would be
in a position to carry out spraying without extension assistance. Agents
would then be in a position to expand their field of action and select new
groups of progressive farmers for intensive instructions.
8.        Training of CFDT agents is mainly on the spot during a six months
period. Presently 20 agents are undergoing training. Field staff would
be increased to 100 by the end of the project period as follows:
Year 0     Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
30         50 1/       60         80          100
9.        Extension to cooperatives is UNCG's other responsibility.
A special department supervise6 the cooperatives. Each cooperative is
1/ To be financed by UNCC.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
assisted by a well quialified and trained extension agent. His responsi-
bilities are to help elected cooperative officials, control records and
assist farmers through their credit societies in preparing annual input
programs.
10.       Supervision and control of individual agents are in the hands
of District Officers who report to the Regional Officers. Present staff
working with cooperatives numbers 57. There are 15 District Officers and
5 Regional Officers (3 expatriates). Total UNCC cooperative extension
personnel is about 100 of which 17 are expatriates. The number of expa-
triates, who are assigned under a technical assistance agreement with
France, is constantly declining and based on Niger counterpart personnel
presently under training, only 8 expatriates would remain until 1972/73.
11.       To intensify extension to groundnut growers, UNCC would establish
a separate service. During Project execution, 50 agents would be assigned
to cooperatives to assist extension officers already in the field. They
would concentrate on advising farmers on use of modern inputs and pay spe-
cial attention to instructing and assisting new owners of animal-drawn
equipment. During the four project years, the service would be built up
as follows:
Groundnut Extension Service (Cumulative)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3            Year 4
20              30               40                50
12.       Agents for this service would be recruited from the area of
each cooperative. They would undergo special 6 months training at existing
agricultural schools and receive further training on the spot.
13.       UNCC's provision with vehicles is adequate.  It maintains a
fleet of 29 vehicles which will be increased to 36 by 1972/73, under an
FED grant. Field agents are usually equipped with bicycles or horses.
14.       UNCC personnel at all levels is well trained and shows great
enthusiasm about their work. District Officers have taken the initiative
in bringing together representatives of the Agricultural Promotion and
Agricultural Extension Services and in coordinating the work of the three
agencies.



NIGER:UNION NIGERIENNE DE CREDIT ET DE COOPERATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
ADMINISTRATIVE  COUNCIL                                   1
l  lICNCA
GENERAL MANAGER            - -1
L -jCOORDINATING COMMITTrE |
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                         l
ADVISER
|COOPERATIVES AND  || ADMINISTRATION    ll             IRRIGATION      ll       ACCOUNTING      ||COTTON EXTENSION|||
GROUNDNUT EXTENSION                                                                                          CFDTl
| - 7 SECTIONS        l
5  
REGIONAL OFFICES
'5
DISTRICT OFFICES
57
COOPERATIVES
CREDIT SOCIETIES  lnX
February 1969                                                                                                           IBRD-4273 (R)



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Organization
Background
1.        The Government controls groundnut, cotton and rice marketing
through fixed producer prices and dealer margins and through its export
organizations. Farmers market their crops through dealers or cooperatives,
who in turn sell groundnuts to the Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisation
de l'Arachide (SONARA), and cotton to the Compagnie Francaise pour le
Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT). Rice reaches local markets di-
rectly through dealers, or UNCC, which is also handling occasional rice
exports.
Cooperatives
2.        The objectives of the cooperatives are to (1) supply farm inputs,
(2) provide a limited range of consumption goods (salt, soap, kerosene),
(3) assist farmers in obtaining agricultural credit, and (4) market their
cash crops. Until the end of 1968 a total of 57 cooperatives were estab-
lished with UNCC assistance. In organizing cooperatives consideration was
given to provide adequate incentives to assure full farmer participation.
Furthermore, by focusing on areas of poor access, cooperatives succeed in
expanding trade to areas previously limited to subsistence economy.
3.        Since official middlemen charges do not differentiate between
private dealers and cooperatives, only efficient units succeed in provid-
ing incentives through redistribution of profits. Establishment of co-
operatives was, therefore, guided by the necessity to create units with
sizeable turnovers. To further reduce overheads, members of cooperatives
had to be involved in operating and managing societies to the largest pos-
sible extent.
4.        Establishing cooperatives covering large areas of sizeable pro-
duction encountered difficulties, because of widespread mistrust of farmers
coming from different villages. This difficulty was overcome by organizing
farmers of one village into the Groupement M4utualiste Villageois (GIMV),
i.e., cooperative credit society with mutual liability.  Several GMV form
a section and six to seven sections are then merged into a cooperative.
The relatively large units obtained average annual crop turnovers of about
CFAF 20 million (US$72,000).
5.       IMembers of each cooperative section elect a president, secretary
and weighmaster and participate in the election of the president and secre-
tary of the cooperative. Elected officials are present at the markets during



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the harvest season and receive small allowances for their efforts. Co-
operatives use hired labor to a limited extent only, mainly for sack handl-
ing and general duties. Accounting procedures have been simplified by
issuing weighing cards to each member and by using symbols on them instead
of figures, thereby permitting illiterate farmers to handle and record
crop deliveries. Collection and processing of all accounts is the respon-
sibility of the UICC agent assigned to each cooperative.
6.        Crop financing at cooperative level is arranged by UNCC and pro-
vided by CICA. Farmers receive full proceeds for their crops on the spot.
Crop transport from cooperative markets to SONARA storage facilities or
CFDT ginneries are arranged by UNCC through private trucking companies.
At present, cooperatives do not own warehouses but will construct 80 stores
under a FED project during the next year.
7.        Government announced dealer margins applying to cooperatives are
adequate to cover allowances for elected officials and costs of hired
labor. About 50% of the remaining net profits are deposited with CNCA and
the rest is distributed among members according to their crops marketed.
These refunds usually amount to 5 to 6% of farmers, proceeds received when
delivering their crops.
SONARA
8.        When SONARA was founded in 1963, Niger's annual groundnut exports
were in the region of 70,000 t. Individual private traders exported ground-
nuts at high cost because of small volumes handled by each of them. By
establishing SONARA, which has the groundnut export monopoly, the Government
succeeded in reducing marketing costs considerably. SONARA is a company
jointly owned by the Goverrment and group of private traders. It has a share
capital of CFAF 300 million on which annual dividends are paid. Since its
establishment, SONARA has been making profits.
9.        SONARA's business activities are directed by a board representing
the shareholders and an expatriate general manager. It maintains storage
facilities at strategic points through the goundnut growing areas. It
does not buy directly from producers but from buying agents and UNCC co-
operatives. Credits for crop purchases are currently advanced by Banque
de Developpement de la Republique du liger (BERN) and Banque Internationale
pour l'Afrique Occidentale (BIAO). From 1970/71 campaign onwards, CNCA
will have a share in SONARAts financing (Annex 4).
10.       The bulk of groundnut exports is trucked to the Kano railhead
and shipped via Nigerian ports. SOINRA also supplies local oil mills with
groundnuts. A total of about 25,000 t groundnuts is processed annually,
representing about 15% of the crop marketed.  Groundnut oil exports are
also handled by SOIARA, while groundnut cake exports are carried out by
the oil mills. To promote exports SONARA maintains an office in Paris,
which keeps close contacts with European importers.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
11.       SONARA is an efficiently managed export organization with adequate
representation on European markets. Government's flexibility in regard to
export taxation should permit SONARA to remain a successful competitor in
the European market during a period of declining prices.
CFDT
12.       Cotton exports are carried out by CFDT, a company jointly owned
by the French Government and French textile industries. Marketing is car-
ried out under a long-term contract with the Government and includes pur-
chases at farmer level, processing and exports. Purchases from producers
are gradually reduced with UNCC cooperatives expanding their activities.
Processing and exports are directed by an expatriate general manager. Con-
tracts with buyers are greatly facilitated by the work of CFDT's head office
in Paris and by the French textile industry's interest in the company.
B. Groundnut Prices
World Market
13.       Prospects for world groundnut prices have been discussed with
oil and oilseed experts. The world market for oils and fats shows increased
growth rates of output in both developing and developed countries (if cur-
rent expansion plans are realized) and only a moderate growth rate of im-
ports by developed countries. Possible consumption increases in developing
countries would, for the next few years, largely be met by domestic pro-
duction and would thus have little impact on world markets. Uncertainties
about oilseed production and supplies from Eastern Europe, the USSR and
China, coupled with dairy surpluses in most developed countries contribute
to decreasing prices for oils and fats. Present medium-term prospects for
groundnuts (as evaluated by the Commodity Division of the Economics Depart-
ment) expect price declines of about 5% during the 1968 to 1975 period.
Prices for Niger groundnuts to European ports (c.i.f.) are projected as
follows:
CFAF per ton
Groundnuts (shelled)     1968           46,240
1970           57,9400
1975           45,100
Producer Prices
14.       Until 1967, Niger's producers benefited from prices above world
market levels, because of the preferential French market until 1965 and
compensation payments granted by the European Common Karket thereafter.
After termination of all price subsidies, the 1968/69 producer price is now
based on the projected world market level. Future producer prices will



ANNEX 3
Page 4
follow world market trends and according to the above projections would
decrease as follows:
CFAF per ton
Groundnuts (shelled)      1969/70           20,000
1970/71           19,000
1972/73           18,500
1975/76           18,000
C. Cotton Prices
World Market
15.       Cotton prices during the 1967 to 1975 period will be largely in-
fluenced first of all by demand and supply and by two major factors,i.e.,
(i) the cotton policy to be adopted by the US and (ii) future trends of
man-made fibers. Indications are that US production, which was cut sharply
in the last two years in order to reduce stocks will be raised to a more
normal level in the next one or two years. IMIoreover, prices of man-made
fibers, for which production capacity is projected to increase by 21% between
March 1967 and December 1970 as compared to a 4% per annum growth of textile
fiber consumption, are likely to exert further pressure on cotton prices.
As a result, cotton prices are likely to decline by about 10 to 15% during
the 1968 to 1975 period. Cotton price quotations CIF Liverpool would be
as follows:
Year               CFAF per ton   US$ per ton
1967/68 (mainly 1-1/32)        170,000         612
1968/69 (mainly 1-1/32)        164.,400        592
1975    (mainly 1-1/16)        153,000         550
Producer Prices
16.       Producer prices are also expected to decline, but not as drastical-
ly as would market prices because of production shifting from 1-1/32 inch
cotton to 1-1/16 inch. Producer prices would, therefore, develop as fol-
lows:
CFAF per ton
Seed Cotton 1969/70                 28,500
1970/71                 28,000
1972/73                 27,500
1975/76                 27,000
These price assumptions which were used in calculating project benefits,
do not allow a reduction of exports due to the establishment of a local



ANNEX 3
Page 5
textile industry, for which negotiations are in an advanced stage. Cotton
deliveries to the contemplated local textile mill would result in greatly
reduced transport costs and thereby possibly to higher farmer prices.
D. Price Stabilization
17.      The Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits du Niger (CSPPN)
was established in 1960, but due to French preferential prices until 1965
and EEC price support thereafter, it started activities only for the 1968/69
harvest. Contrary to marketing boards in other countries, its main objective
is to compensate for seasonal price fluctuations within a given year and
not to check price movements from year to year.
18.      qince the 1968/69 harvesting season, prices for Niger's agricultural
exports have been determined by the world markets. Producer prices are based
on CSPPN's evaluation and p2ojection of international price trends within a
12-month period until the next harvest. The officially announced price is
arrived at after allowing for dealer and exporter margins, transport and
insurance costs, export taxes and overheads. The published price is maintained
throughout the November to April harvesting season.
19.      The national export organizations SONARA and CFDT may not always succeed
in selling at calculated prices. If their export prices are below the calculated
CSPPN level, they will receive payments by CSPPN to compensate for the difference
between the announced and the realized price. However, should one of the Govern-
ment controlled export agencies succeed in selling above the announced price, it
is obliged to transfer this extra profit to CSPPN.
20.      CSPPN is directed by a 1D-member board with the Government and private
interests equally represented.  Its original capital of CFAF 59 million came
fron a French Government grant and assets of a predecessor's organization. Its
annual income during the past years derived from Government allocations amounting
to 10% of export taxes collected (approximately CFAF 25 million per annum) and a
special tax (Taxe Unique) paid by exporters. Total CSPPN funds are now in the
region of CFAF 700 million.
21.      Funds available, combined with a prudent price policy, will permit
CSPPN to continue its operations during the coming years.  Farmers will benefit
from stable prices during the extended harvesting periods, an additional incentive
,which will support successful project implementation.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT FROJECT
CREDIT AND CNCA
Background
1.        Niger, together with six other countries, is a member of the West
African 1Monetary Union, which became effective in its present form in 1962.
Member countries share a common currency, the CFAF franc (Franc de la Com-
munaute Financiere Africaine) and a common Central Bank, the Banque Centrale
des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Commercial banking services
are provided by two institutes:  the Credit du Niger and the Banque Inter-
nationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BIAO).  Investments are mainly handled
by the two development banks: the Banque de Developpement de la Republique
du Niger (BURN) and the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA).
2.        In pre-independence days, agricultural credit was the responsi-
bility of the Societes de Prevoyance. Funds available were limited and
the main share of lending was for social credit. To change previous colo-
nial institutions and also to promote the cooperative movement, the Govern-
ment established UNCC in 1962. The two main objectives of UNCC were to
act as union for all cooperatives to be founded and to supply agricultural
credit. A decision by lNiger's Supreme Court enforced a separation of these
two functionsl/ and consequently, CNCA was established in September 1967.
Constitution and Objectives
/   _.
3.        CHCA's constitution is similar to those of other agricultural
credit banks in French speaking West Africa.  As an agricultural credit
bank, CNCA has been classed by Government Decree a development bank, thus
giving it access to the Central Bank's discounting facilities. CNCA's
objectives are defined by public law No. 67.32 which describes the scope
of CNCA lending operations, especially those in support of agricultural,
animal, artisanal and fisheries production. The Complementary Decree
No. 68.57 specified further fields of lending, notably for marketing and
processing.
Administration and Management
4.        An Administrative Council, composed of 20 members, 10 from Govern-
ment Departments and 10 from the private sector but also appointed by the
Government, manages both UICC and CNCA. Its responsible for defining
policies and credit programs, as well as their implementation.  A Technical
1/ Under the law, credit can be extended only by an organization which is
controlled by the ITinistry of Finance. UNCC is, however, controlled
by the Mi"nistry of Rural Affairs.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Committee approves loan request from individuals who can offer securities
other than their crops (salaries, land titles). Regional Committees in
Dosso, Tahoua, Maradi and Zinder are responsible for appraising and ap-
proving loan requests from regional cooperatives and farmers, who can offer
only their crops as securities. The Regional Committees' functions for
the province of Niamey are handled by the Technical Committee.
Organization
5.        The N'iamey Head Office is organized in three main divisions:
(1) Studies and Statistics, (2) Internal Control and Debt Collection, and
(3) Credit and Accounting. CIUCA has arranged for the services of a private
law firm to compensate for the absence of a Legal Division. An organization
diagram is attached. The Studies and Statistics Division is in charge of
preparing internal operation programs, financial studies and statistics
required for its business activities. The Internal Control and Debt Col-
lecting Division is responsible for supervision and control of the Head
Office and the four field offices. The Division also initiates appropriate
measures to collect overdue credit repayments. The Credit and Accounting
Division prepares credit documents (individual credits with securities
offered) prior to submission to the Technical Committee, opens and super-
vises credit accounts and controls repayments. The Division is also respon-
sible for preparing and presenting loan requests from cooperatives and
individual farmers of the Niamey Region to the Technical Committee.
External Control
6.        External control would be carried out by an official of the Iinistry
of Finance whose university training qualifies him for this assignment.
Although designated by the Ntinistry, he was still awaiting his appointment
when the mission visited Niamey. Since qualified staff for auditing as-
signments is spare, new auditor appointments would require reviews of their
qualifications, and if found unsatisfactory by IDA, employment of private
auditor would be warranted,  Under the agreement of the West African iMonetary
Union, BCEAO receives monthly statemexnts on CNCAIs financial and liquidity
position in addition to annual reports and accounts. Present control
arrangements, both internal and externals are considered adequate,
Staff
7.        Total CNCA staff numbers 15 including three expatriates.  As a
consequence of CICA1s close cooperation with UNCC, no special staff for
evaluating technical and economic aspects of credit applications is required.
UINCC also assures collection of repayments. CINCA work outside headquarters
is limited to accounting and participation in discussing loan applications
at regional committee level and is implemented by an accountant-secretary
in each regional office. CNCA personnel is well trained and qualified for
the tasks assigned to thea.  An addition of two staff members is foreseen
for 1970/71. Arrangements for employing the two members have been made



ANNEX 4
Page 3
and they are already undergoing training abroad. Since most CONCA loans
are made to GMV and cooperatives, a relatively small number of accounts
(1,200 GMV, 57 cooperatives) has to be maintained.
Sources of Funds
8.       When CIEA was established in 1967, UNCC's capital (all subscribed
by the Government) was split and CFAF 67.4 million transferred to CNCA.
During the fiscal year 1968/69, the Government increased C0ICA's capital by
CFAF 50 million with funds borrowed from the French Caisse Centrale de Co-
operation Economique (CCCE).  on or before September 30, 1970, the Govern-
ment would make a further increase of CFAF 50 million to permit CNCA
financing of groundnut exports by the Societe Nigerienne de Commercialisation
de l'Arachide (SOrIARA) from the 1970/71 campaign onward (paras 14 and 18).
Since the Government would authorize CICA to retain the part of IDA credit
earmarked for its lending program as equity capital (para 3.28), CNTCA's
capital would reach CFAF 267.3 million in 1974.
9.        Other resources include mainly sight deposits of cooperatives,
a fixed term deposit of CFAF 40 million made by the Caisse de Stabilisation
(CSPPN) and Central Bank's (BCEAO) discounting facilities. Short-term
agricultural loans can be discounted at 50% and crop marketing loans at
80c%. Interest on discounting is 3.5%. In addition, CNCA is entitled to
draw up to CFAF 100 million from the Banque de Developpement de la Re-
publique du Niger (BIRN) at 8%. Comparative and forecast CNCA balance
sheets covering the two last fiscal years (1967/68 and 1968/69) and the
next five years are shown in Table 3.
Use of Funds
10.       An analysis of the loan portfolio is given in Table 1.  Since
CNCA operated only for two years, UNCC credit activities for previous years
are also shown to permit comparisons. Lending activities during the past
four years were for four sectors: (1) cooperatives and their members; (2) in-
dividual farmers not organized in cooperative; (3) social credit; and
(4) marketing credit.
II.       Lending to cooperatives remained relatively stable during the
past years. Short-term credit for seasonal inputs was predominant varying
between 81 to 95% of total lending to cooperatives. Medium-term credit
declined during the last two years mainly due to poor harvests. Neither
UNCC nor CNCA have granted long-term credits.
12.       Short-term lending to individual farmers, also for seasonal
inputs was of minor importance as compared with medium-term loans.  This
was mainly due to increased credit requests from commercial farmers, who
invested in small scale irrigated and mechanized vegetable and rice farms.
This lending sector also did not receive any long-term credits.
13.       The importance of social credit declined during the past years
from CFAF 196.2 million in 1965/66 to CFAF 29 million in 1968/69 and would



ANTNEX 4
Page L_
be completely separated from CNCA activities in the coming years. Assur-
ances have been obtained that CNCA would in regard to social credit only
act in a trustee capacity, with losses for the account of the Government
and would receive adequate compensation by the Government for any services
performed.
14.      Mlarketing credit represents the largest share of CNCA's overall
lending operations. This credit is granted to cooperatives to permit full
payment to farmers for crops delivered. All marketing credit is short-term
only, fully reimbursed upon crop deliveries to the export organization.
To increase CNCA's revenue by expanding its activities (para 18), the Govern-
ment has agreed that CIUA would be given a share in financing SOIMRA's
groundnut exports from the 1970/71 campaign orwards.
15.       Short-term lending would continue to be CNCA's main activity.
However, medium-term lending would increase and the present structure of
the agricultural portfolio including 56% short-term loans and 44% of medium-
term loans would be modified to 43% of short-term loans and 57% of medium-
term credits by 1974.
16.       Repayments to UNCC during the 1966/67 period amounted to 91% of
short-term and 87% of medium-term loans to cooperatives. Medium- and
short-term repayment records of individual borrowers were less favorable,
amounting to 74% only. Close supervision of cooperatives and marketing
operations as well as availability of the cooperative 's annual refunds
for covering overdue made it possible to recover 92% of CIOCA's first year
short-term lendings. Fairly good repayments of medium-term loans has been
assured through seizing equipment or draft animals as soon as installments
were overdue. In 1968/69, repayment of short- and medium-term loans amounted
to 80% due to adverse weather conditions affecting production.
Lending Policies
17.       Aajor aspects of CNCA credit policies are:
(i)  Lending through GIV -- Cooperatives is preferred, although
credit operations to individual farmers in areas not yet
served by cooperatives are continued;
(ii) Lending in kind is practiced except for social and market-
ing loans;
(iii)  No ceiling on credit amounts has been imposed but prepara-
tion of input programs by UNCC extension agents and the
limited range of inputs financed, precludes high loan sums;
(iv)  Short-term loans are for up to one year.  Medium-term loans
for equipment and draft animal purchases are for three
years, but would be extended to four years under the Proj-
Octo.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(v)  Down payments are required for medium-term loans, for
members of cooperatives 20% and for non-members 30%.
Since the 20%o down payment is considered too high by farmers,
the policy w'ould be reviewled from time to time and re-
quirements would be lowered in case of sluggish credit
demands.
(vi)  Because of psychological reasons, which make it mandatory
to collect equal repayment installments throughout the
credit period, CNCA charges at present a fixed commission
on the nominal loan amount of 6% per annum on short-term
loans and 5% per annum on medium-term loans (four years).
This corresponds to interest rates on the outstanding
balance of about 9% for short-term and 8% for medium-term
loans.
(vii)  Crops produced and marketed through cooperatives are the
security offered for short- and medium-term credit. For
medium-term credit, an additional security is the lien on
equipment or draft animals received. In cases of default,
the guarantee provided by the other members of the credit
society becomes effective, mainly through collecting from
the society's annual sales refunds.
Results and Financial Situation
18.       Income and expenditure accounts for CNCA's two first fiscal years
and project-ons through 1974 are given in Table 2. During the first fiscal
year 1967/68, CONCAIs administrative expenditu s were paid by UMOCC. In
1968/69, CNCA expenditureswere recorded separately.  They amounted to CFAF
10.9 million and were covered by an equivalent subsidy transferred from
government budgetary allocation to UNCC. Accordingly, CNCA had a surplus
of CFAF 3.0 million. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that CNCA's earnings would be increased by expanding its lending activities.
CNiCA would be given an annual CFAF 250 million share in financing groundnut
exports (para 14). Since discounting facilities at the Central Bank are
limited to 80%a of marketing loans, the Government would increase CNCA's
capital by CFAF 50 million (para 8). Projections for the next five years
show that recent measures takes for enlarging CNCA's activities would en-
able CNCA to cover its operating expenses and to have a surplus after the
establishment of reserves for bad and doubtful debts.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LEM1DING OPERATIONS
(CFAF million)
U N C C                   C N C A
From 1963
through
Sept. 30, 1965 1965/66 1966/67 1967/68 1968/69
Loans to Cooperatives
Short-term               40.8          35.0     47.9    41.1      46.4
Medium-term              10.1          3.2       8.7      4.3      2.3
Sub-total:            50.9         38.2      56.6     45.4    48.7
Loans to Farmers
Sort-term                 4.6          3.4       3.4      1.9      2.0
Medium-term               7.1          8.3       9.6     10.1     14.0
Sub-total:            11.7         11.7      13.0     12.0     16.0
Social Credit             262.7        196.2    110.2      42.9     29.0
Marketing Credit          257.5        175.0    220.0    220.0    370.0
GRAND TOTAL:         582.8        421.1    399.8    320.3    463.7
May 14, 1970



ANNEX 4
Table 2
NDGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
COMPARATIVE AND FORECAST INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS
(in CFAF MEllion)
As at September 30:           1968      1969      1970    1971       1972     1973      19-7h
---Actual-- --------------Projected-----------------
INCOME
Interest on short-term loans )
Interest on medium-term loans ) 15.6        14.5      11.1    12.8       13.8      17.7    21.9
Interest on marketing loans   )
Interest on administrative
loans                            -         2.3       1.3      1.8       1.5       1.2      0.9
Interest on miscellaneous
debtors                           -        3.8        3.3     3.5       h.9       L.9      4.9
Interest on groundnut export       -
financing                         -        -          -      12.5      12.5      12.5    12.5
Interest on bank accounts          0.9       -          -       -         -         -        -
Miscellaneous income               0.1       0.2       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5
Interest on UNCC financing          -        -          1.4     1.1       0.8       0.5      0.2
Subsidy/transfer of surplus         -       10.9       6.0                -         -        -
Total                   16.6     31.7       23.6    32.2      34.0      37.3        O.9
EXPENDITURE
Banks (BDRN)                        -        4.3        -       -         -          -       -
Central Bank                        8.4      3.5        3.0     3.5      h.2        4.e      5.5
Central Bank (groundnut export)   -          -          -       5.8       5.8       5.8      5.8
Interest paid on sight deposits   -          0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5        0.5      0.5
Interest paid on fixed-term
deposits                         -         1.2       1.8      1.8       1.8       1.8      1.8
General expenditure                0.2      10.9      12.5    13.5       14.5      15.5    16.5
8.6     20.4       17.8    25.1      26.8      28.4    30.1
Reserves for bad and doubtful       5.0      8.3        5.8     6.o       6.8       7.8      914
debts
13.6     28.7       23.6    31.1      33.6      36.2    39.5
Surplus (Deficit)                   3.0      3.0        -       1.1       o.4       1.1      1 X
Total                   16.6     31.7       23.6    32.2      34.0       37.3    4o.9
May li, 1970



NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
COMPARATIVE AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS
(in CFAF million)
As at September 30:                 1968           1969             1970          1971         1972          1973         1974
----- Actual -----             -------- ------------ Projected ------------- -------
ASSETS
Cash on hand and at banks                      52.0          9.7             23.5          32.6         30.6          29.7         35.7
Short-term loans                               47.8         45.6              47.9         55.4          63.0         73.8          81.3
Medium-term loans                              36.7         35.9              37.7         39.0          58.6         81.4         104.2
Marketing loans                               196.0        160.7             168.7        180.0         225.0        270.0         315.0
Groundnut export financing                        -            -                 -         50.0          50.0         50.0          50.0
Administrative loans                           61.7         21.6             30.0          25.0          20.0         15.0          10.0
Special loans                                   8.2          3.5                 -            -             -            -             _
Miscellaneous debtors                          25.4         68.1              71.5        100.0         100.0        100.0         100.0
Arrears less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts                              -         10.0              3.6             -             -            -             -
Government                                        -         50.0              50.0            -             -            -
Secu,rities                                     2.4          2.3               2.3          2.3           2.3          2.3             _
UNCC financing of building                      0.5            -              21.2         16.2          11.2          6.2           1.2
TOTAL:                                  430.7         407.4            456.4         500.5        560.7         628.4        697.4
LIABILITIES
Sight deposits                                 54.3         49.0              51.5         54.0          59.0         59.0          59.0
Conmercial Banks                              204.9            -                 -            -             -            -             -
Central Bank                                      -        130.0             136.5        173.2         204.0        236.4         267.1
Miscellaneous creditors                        34.7         43.8              38.8         33.8          32.8         31.8          30.8
Fixed-term deposits                            40.0         40.0              40.0         40.0          40.0         40.0          40.0
Extra accounts                                 13.1         21.2              22.2         23.2          25.2         27.2          29.2
Provisions                                     13.3            _                 -            -             -            -             -
Capital                                        67.4        117.4             167.4        175.2         198.2        231.4         267.3
Surplus (Deficit)                               3.0          6.o                 -          1.1           1.5          2.6           4.0
TOTAL:                                   430.7        407.4             456.4        500.5         560.7        628.4         697.4
May 14, 1970



NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CRBDIT PROJECT
CAISSE NATIOdALS DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
PROJECT CREDIT ACCOUNT - CASH FLOW
Y e a r s                          1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10          11          12          13           14         15
INFLOW
Capital Account
Own resources (BCSAO discounting)          41.0        4.9        6.2        7.4
IDA Credit - Equity                         7.8       23.0       33.2       35.9
48.8       27.9      39.4       43.3
Revenue Account
Balance from previous year                  -         45.8       54.6       71.7       94.9      121.3     146.7      164.9      174.2      175.1       176.0        176.9       177.8       178.7      179.6
Interest earned - Annual Credits            2.8        3.2        3.9        4.3        4.3        4.3        4.3        4.3        4.3        4.3         4.3         4.3         4.3         4.3        4.3
- Medium-Term              0.2       1.2         2.6       4.4        4.2        3.2        1.8        -          _          -           -           -           -            -          -
3.0       50.2      61.1       80.4      103.4      128.8      152.8      169.2      178.5      179.4       180.3       181.2       182.1        183.0      183.9
Credit Account (Repayments)
Annua1/                                    45.8       53.4       64.2       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7        71.7        71.7        71.7        71.7       71.7
Madium-Term                                 -          0.7        58        130        21.9       21.9       16.1        9.0        -          -           -          _            -              
45.8       54.1      70.0       84.7        93.6      93.6       87.8       80.7       71.7       71.7        71.7         71.7        71.7        71.7       71.7
Total Inflow                          97.6     132.2      170.5      208.4      197.0      222.4      240.6      249.9      250.2      251.1       252.0       252.9        253.8       254.7      255.6
OU TFLOW
Credit Account (Advances)
Annual                                     45.8       53.4       64.2       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7       71.7        71.7        71.7        71.7         71.7       71.7
Medium-Term                                 3.0       20.3       28.6       35.8        -          -
48.8       73.7       92.8      107.5       71.7      71.7        71.7      71.7        71.7       71.7        71.7        71.7        71.7        71.7       71.7
Other Punds
Interest paid to BCBAO (3.5%)               1.3        1.6        2.8        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1         2.1         2.1          2.1         2.1        2.1
Operating Costs                             1.7        2.3        3.2        3.9        1.9        1.9        1.9        1.9        1.3        1.3         1.3         1.3          1.3         1.3        1.3
3.0        3.9        6 0        6.0        4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0        3.4        3.4          3.4         3.4 *j4                 3.4        3.4
Total Outflow                        51.8        77.6       98.8     113.5        75.7      75.7        75.7      75.7        75.1       75.1        75.1        75.1        L5 1                   75.1
NET INFLOW                                    45.8       54.6       71.7       94.9      121.3      146.7      164.9      174.2      175.1      176.0        176.9       177.8       178.7       179.6      180.5
Carried forward
To finance credit program                  45.8       54.6       71.7       94.9       71.7       71.7       71.?       71.7       71.7       71.7        71.7        71.7         71.7        71.7       71.7
Surplus to program                          -           _          _         -         49.6       75.0       93.2      102.5      103.4      104.3       105.2       106.1       107.0        107.9      108.8
121.3      146.7      164.9      174.2     175.1       176.0       176.9       177.8       178.7       179.6      180.5
Interest earned on surplus at 8 2/                                                                 4.0        6.o        7.5        8.2        8.3         8.3         8.4          8.5         8.6        8.6
4NCA would cover a possible 2 months overlap between farmers repayment and payment of current fertilizers and pesticides needs by rediscounting.
21
Not included in project account; cumulative total CFAF 76.4 at end of year 15.
May 1),, 1970



ANNEX 4
Table 5
NDIER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECTS COSTS AND FINANCING
FEC     Total
Year  1       2        3       4      Total       %        FEC
- - - - - - - CFAF Million - - - - - - -               CFAF Million
USE OF FUNDS
I.  On-Farm Development
Animal Drawn Equipment                     -     6.9      9.5    11.5    27.9          90     25.4
Ox Carts, Spares                           -     6.2      8.9    11.7    26.8          90     24.3
Oxen                                       -     7.8    10.4    12.8    31.0            -        -
Sub-total                             -    20.9    28.8    36.0    85.7           -      49.7
II.  Scales for Cooperatives                  3.0      4.5     6.7      8.3    22.5        100     22.5
III.  Incremental Annual Farm Inputs a/
Fertilizer                               1.7     3.4      2.6     2.0      9.7       100       9.7
Seeds                                   40.0        -       -        -    40.0          -        -
Insecticides and Spray Costs             4.1     4.2      8.2     5.5    22.0         80      18.0
Sub-total                          45.8     7.6    10.8      7.5    71.7          -      27.7
IV. Technical Services
CNCA Technical Assistance                  -        -     8.9     8.9    17.8        100      17.8
UNCC Extension                           2.9     7.0    13.8    20.7    44.4            -        -
Sub-total                           2.9     7.0    22.7    29.6    62.2           -      17.8
TOTAL                              51.7    40.0    69.0    81.4   242.1          49    117.7
SOURCES
I. Farmers
Equipment, Carts, Spares                   -     1.2      1.7     2.1      5.0
Cxen                                       -     3.9      5.2     6.4    15.5
Sub-total                             -     5.1     6.9      8.5    20.5
II. CNCA
Seeds                                   40.0       -        -       -    40.0
Insecticides and Spray Cost              1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      4.0
Oxen                                       -     3.9      5.2     6.4    15.5
Sub-total                         41.0      4.9     6.2      7.4    59.5
III.  IDA
Fertilizer                               1.7     3.4      2.6     2.0      9.7
Insecticides                             3.1     3.2      7.2     4.5    18.0
Equipment, Carts and Spares                -    11.9    16.7    21.1    49.7
Scales                                   3.0     4.5      6.7     8.3    22.5
CNCA Technical Assistance                  -       -      8.9     8.9    17.8
UNCC Extension                           2.9     7.0    13.8    20.7    44.4
Sub-total                         10.7    30.0    55.9    65.5   162.1
TOTAL                             51.7    40.0    69.o    81.4   242.1
a/ Incremental cost above year 0
May 14, 1970



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COGRDINATI1NG COMMITTEE
The following summarizes the main provisions of the draft to set
up the Coordinating Committee to assure satisfactory execution of the Pro-
ject (para 4.01 of the report):
Decree
(1) The Committee will be composed of the following members:
The General M4anager of UNCC and Representatives of
the following:
Ministry of Rural Economics;
Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
The Development Commission,
SONARA (groundnut export organization),
CFDT (cotton export organization), and
CSPPN (price stabilization board).
(2)  The Committee will meet when convened by the Chairman, at
least once per month, and will keep Minutes of each meeting.
(3) The Chairman will be the MIinistry of Rural Economics and
the general manager of UITCC will act as the secretary.
(4) The Committee will be responsible for the proper execution
of the Project, and for detailed operations described in
the addendum, including the annual program on farm inputs,
the extension program and all necessary documentation re-
lating to the progress of the Project.
(5) The Committee will also be responsible for collecting and
collating all information required by IDA and for forwarding
it to W4ashington.
(6) The Committee will be responsible for the qualifications of
technical assistance personnel and their replacements, the
timely arrangement of imports necessary for project execution,
and the cooperative's expansion program.
Addendum
The Committee will be responsible for the control and coordination
of the annual UNCC buying programs on behalf of the cooperatives for im-



ANNEX 5
Page  z
plements, fertilizers, pesticides and other farm inputs financed by credits
in accordance with the following:
(1) UICC extension agents will discuss for each planting season
farm input needs of cooperators, and in agreement with the
cooperatives, submit to UNCC, CNICA and the Committee the
consolidated credit demands of the cooperatives.
(2) COA will determine the credit to each cooperative and UNCC
will prepare the consolidated orders for farm inputs.
(3)  The Committee will examine the demands from the cooperatives,
CNCA's proposals for granting credits, and UNCC's arrange-
ments for ordering farm inputs, and will then initiate
action required for timely imports. UNCC and C1'cA will sub-
sequently agree with each cooperative its buying and financ-
ing program.
(4)  In accordance with the approved program, UNCO will order
the farm inputs, and deliver them to the cooperatives, while
UNCA would pay for them.
(5)  The cooperatives will distribute the farm inputs to the GMV
and their members, and MICA would charge each GIV the credit
amount of approved farm inputs. The GMV in cooperation with
the cooperatives will repay the credits from the proceeds
of their crop sales in accordance with the agreed credit
repayment schedules.
(6) The Committee will also discuss producer prices, which will
be calculated by the Caisse de Stabilisation (CSPPiW), prior
to their announcement.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
NIGER
AGREIULTLRAL CREDIT ROJECT
FARE INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
A. Backgroumd
1.       mThe lack of rainfall and the scarcity of fertile soils determine
the pattern of Niger's agriculture.  In addition, agricultural development
is influenced by high internal and external transport costs and an insig-
nificant domestic trade of foodstuffs. These factors narrow down the choice
of crops to be grown and influence the use of inputs.
2.        In analyzing production factors, which could be influenced at
economic cost, two groups can be distinguished. The first includes local
inputs such as improved, selected seeds and labor in the form of improved
cultivation techniques. Inputs of the second group are all imported and
are economically applicable only within narrow ranges.
3.        Niger's agricultural development program is based on these as-
sumptions. Farmers who participate in the program are first instructed in
better cultivation practices and acquainted with improved seeds. Then fer-
tilizers and pest control is introduced. Draft animal mechanization is
presently the final step of the "package input program't.
B.  Groundnuts
4.        In accordance with results obtained in experiments, field tests
and under farm conditions, the Government would carry out the groundnut
improvement program at three levels of input combinations. These would be:
(1) selected seed only; (2) selected seed and fertilizer; and (3) selected
seed, fertilizer and ox-drawn equipment. Participating farmers would
either begin with input combination (1) and adopt ccmbination (2) or (3)
in subsequent years, some would start immediately at level (2) or (3).
Assumptions showing input/output and cost/price relationships for the re-
spective input combinations are shown in Tables 1 to 3.
Selected Seed
5.        This single input raises shelled groundnut yields from 800
(the current average) to about 1,000 kg/ha in year one, with subsequent
yield declines to 940, 900, and 870 kg/ha in years 2, 3 and 4 respectively.
Participating farmers would procure new seed every fifth year. For 80 kg
selected seed received on credit at planting time, they must return 120 kg
of groundnuts after harvest, which covers cost of propagation, dressing
and interest.
6.        The seed program started three rears ago and found farmers accept-
ance immediately. The Government has adequate stocks of foundation seed



ANNEX 6
Page 2
produced by PAT for distribution to contract farmers who multiply the seed
under Government supervision. Before distribution, the seeds are treated
with fungicides. The program would be geared to distributing selected seed
to about 25,000 farmers annually, who would plant an average area of one
ha groundnuts per holding.  The majority of these 25,000 farmers (17-19,000)
would purchase selected seed only; the balance would either use it in com-
bination with fertilizer or with fertilizer and ox-drawn equipment. Because
of its demonstrated capacity to increase yields, farmers are keen to obtain
selected seed.
Selected Seed and Fertilizer
7.        This input combination raises groundnut yields from 800 (the cur-
rent average) to about 1,100 kg/ha. Incremental return of fertilizer
application is smaller than from selected seed. However, the residual ef-
fect of phosphate fertilizer would benefit subsequent millet crops.
8.        Experiments, field tests and on-farm results have shown that
favorable response to fertilizer can only be expected in areas receiving
at least 600 mm annual rainfall.  Hence, incremental fertilizer application
to groundnuts under the Project is not expected to exceed 1,600 ha at the
end of the Project period.
Selected Seed, Fertilizer and Ox-drawn Equipment
9.        On a small scale, UNCC has sold animal-drawn equipment to farmers
since 1963, at prices below UNCC's cost, thanks to a 2C% FED subsidy tied
to contract purchases from FED member countriesl/. UNCC also assumed most
distribution costs thereby eliminating wholesale and retail dealer margins.
FAO experts have assisted UNOC in carrying out equipment testing and train-
ing programs and have concluded that equipment produced in Senegal would
best meet Niger conditions. UNCC operates mobile repair and service units.
Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture has established ox-training centers
(centres de dressage) in areas where it promotes the use of ox-drawn
equipment and carts.
10.       Despite these efforts, farmers have purchased relatively few
equipment units, less than 100 in 1963 and 1964, rarely more than 200 of
the major equipment types in 1966, 1967 and 1968. Imports which had to
follow FED agreements exceeded sales and UNCC accumulated excess inventories,
that would cover supply needs for at least one year.
11.       Several factors have been responsible for the farmers' slow
acceptance of animal-drawn equipment: the small farm size (1 to 3 ha in
Niger against 8 to 10 ha in Senegal); poor quality and sometimes types of
equipment unsuitable for Niger conditions, bought because of inadequate
1/ Government does not intend to request FED subsidies for future equip-
ment purchases.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
import specifications, coupled with FED's requirement that contracts be
awarded to the lowest bidder; lack of spare parts and insufficient follow-
up by extension and maintenance services.  Finally, UMC/CNCA?s terms and
conditions for medium-term credit to farmers have not been particularly
favorable.  UNCC and more recently CMA have required loan repayment within
three years, in addition to a 20%o farmer participation.  Many farmers have
been automatically excluded from the credit program because they could not
raise the required amount in cash.l/
12.       On the positive side, the mission found several aspects indicating
substantial scope for increased acceptance of animal-drawn equipment. Farmers
confirmed its favorable effect on groundnut yields (also on cotton, rice
and complementary subsistence crops: millet and sorghum) which combined
with the other inputs would reach 1,200 kg/ha. They had found ample op-
portunity for earning additional income through custom services to other
farmers. In several cases, income from custom services alone appeared suf-
ficient to cover repayment obligations on medium-term equipment loans.
The economics of equipment use are favorable, as shown by sample farm
budgets (Table 1).
13.       The supporting institutions are well organized and adequately
managed. UNCC and CIICA have effective cooperative supply, credit and
marketing services in the Project area. They recognize major shortcomings
of their past equipment sales and services program and have agreed to make
appropriate changes. Essential improvement measures would include: strength-
ening farmer and extension worker training in use and maintenance of ox-drawn
equipment; correcting weaknesses in the import specifications; improving
spare part supply and equipment repair services. Repayment periods would
be changed from three to four years and requirements of farmers' cash
participation would be constantly reviewed and if necessary reduced.
14.       Under these conditions, the mission projects annual increases of
equipment sales at rate of about 25% from present purchases. During year 1
of the Project period, UNOC would liquidate its equipment inventories.
Thereafter, sales of groundnut equipment units are estimated to reach about
450 in year 2, 600 in year 3 and 750 in year 4, respectively.
15.       At that rate, IDA financed equipment purchases would amount to
about CFAF 50 million (US$178,000). Though small in comparison with other
BANK/IDA financed mechanization schemes, expanded use of animal-drawn
equipment could play an important role in modernizing Niger's groundnut
production and expanding its export earning capacity.
16.       Increased use of draft animals would be an additional advantage.
The country has immense supplies (estimated at 4 million head of cattle)
1/ The cost of equipment ranges from CFAF 12,400 for a groundnut unit (this
does not include the seeder) to CFAF 22,900 for a cotton unit.  A pair of
oxen costs about CFAF 15,000. Thus the cash requirement at 20%o ranges
from CFAF 5,000 to CFAF 9,100 or half of these amounts for each of two
farmers sharing the use and cost of oxenand equipment.



ANMEX 6
Page 4
of potential draft animals, most of them still outside the market economy.
Trained as draft animals, same of them would be put to productive use.
After several years of use as draft animals, they could be sold for slaughter.
This type of equigment usage would thus mobilize an asset which up to now
has been unused.
C. Cotton
17.       Since 1963, Niger's cotton plantings exceeded 14,000 he in twTo
years only; just over 5% of the groundnut area. Annual production has average
6,200 tons of seed cotton. Farmers follcwing extensive cultural practices
have obtained low yields, ranging from 300 to 500 kg/ha.
18.       Elements of the improvement program are fertilizer, insect con-
trol, mechanical land preparation and cultivation, supported by a small
contingent of CFDT's technical service staff. CFDT is integrated with UNCC.
Recommended practices produce yield ranges from 1,000 to 2,000 kg/ha. The
impact area, though still small, has progressed from 120 ha in 1965 to
1,100 ha in 1968. l,Tith additional staff to be recruited under the Project,
CFDT would have the competence and capacity to extend the impact area to
4,000 ha in year 4 of the disbursement period.
19.       As for groundnuts, improvements under the proposed cotton sub-
project would be carried out at three levels of input combinations: (1)
insect control, comprising by far the largest area; (2) insect control
and fertilizer; and (3) insect control, fertilizer combined with ox-drawn
equipment for plowing and cultivation. The effect of these practices on
farm returns are shown in Table 2 as sample farm budgets for 2-1/2 ha farms,
together with investment cost, including technical services and projected
production and value, seed-cotton yields would increase by 400 kg through
insect control and by 700 kg per ha through mechanization and fertilization.
INiger cotton, 1-1/32" to 1-1/16", medium to medium long is of good quality
and market prospects for the small incremental quantity are good. The
proposed small cotton sub-project would after four years generate an incre-
mental production of 1,760 tons seed cotton.
D. Rice
20.       Rice plantings increased from 9,000 ha in 1963 to 11,000 ha in
1967. The larger portion of this area has been double-cropped, depending
on rainfall and supplementary irrigation from Niger flood waters. With
traditional production methods, yields ranged from 1,100 to 1,700 kg/ha.
The area suitable for improved practices and double-cropping is increasing,
however, as several small diversion dams and pump schemes in the Niger
Valley are being completed.
21.      With technical assistance from France, Germaary and Taiwan, the
Government has demonstrated that yields can be increased to 5 tons per ha



ANMEg 6
Page5
and more, through improved seeds, transplanting, proper weeding, fertilizer,
mechanized land preparation and cultivation. Chinese technicians working with
Niger farmers achieved single crop yields up to 7 tons/ha, under farm
conditions. On balance, experience to date indicates good prospects for im-
proving rice productivity. Substantial yield increases are feasible; the
economics are favorable; training of farmers and extension workers would be
continued under Chinese technical assistance; and the improvement program
could be expanded within the limits set by irrigated land available.
22.       The impact area under the proposed rice sub-project would grow
from presently 240 ha to 380 ha in year 4 of the Project period.  Of the two
input combinations, the first would involve selected seed and fertilizer; the
second use of selected seed, fertilizer, mechanized land preparation and
cultivation. Some irrigation development is being financed through bilateral
programs. Water resource development is not contemplated under the proposed
sub-project.
23.       A typical rice farmer would have about 1 ha rice land in the valley
and 1 ha of upland where he would grow millet. Yields would increase through
fertilization to about 2 t per ha and harvest. A further 500 kg/ha increase
could be expected through better cultivation practices due to mechanization.
Sample budgets for the two input combinations are shown in Table 3. At present,
Government buys all paddy at a farm price of CFAF 17/kg. At this price, rice
farming is more profitable than either groundnut or cotton production. It
would still be profitable if the Government would gradually reduce the paddy
buying price from CFAF 17/kg to about CFAF 13/kg, as recommended by the mission.
24.       Availability of paddy at lower prices would move additional
quantities into local consumption. This would be desirable since present
production meets domestic demand. Export prospects are not promising.
Shipment from Niger to the port of exit (Cotonou) costs nearly three times
as much as shipment from Cotonou to European ports. Limited quantities may
be exportable to neighboring countries like Nigeria, particularly at lower
prices. Market limitations are the main reason for confining the rice sub-
project to about 420 ha.
25.       Costs and incremental production are shown in Table 3.  In the
fourth year, the sub-project would generate about 1,000 tons of paddy.  Valued
at a reduced farm price of CFAF 15,000 (US$44) per ton of paddy, the incre-
mental annual production would represent a value of CFAF 14.7 million (US$52,
900).



ANIIEI 6
NIGER
AGRICULDRTfi CREDIT PROJECT
BlllGET FOR AN AVERAGE GROUNDNUr/MILLST FAR(
(1 ha Groundnut, 2 ha Millet)
FARM MODEL                         I                                    II                                   III
Selected Seed                        Selected Seed                        Selected Seed
Only                              + Fertilizer                         + Fertilizer
+ Ox-Drawn Fquip-
ment
Before               After        Before                 After        Before                     After
- -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  CFAF   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
IXPENDIIURSS
Groundnut Seed
o0 kg _x 19                      1,520                     _        1,520                               1,520
80 kg x 20                           -                 1,600            -                  1,600            -                      1,60o
Seed Dressing
Transport and Others                  -                  480            _                    E8o            -                        48o
Groundnut Fertilizer
75 kg x 20                           -                     -            -                 1,500             -                     1,500
Millet Seed
20okgx 1o                          200                   200          200                    200          200                        200
Hand Tools                         500                   500          500                    500          500                        300
Annuities for Oxen
and Implements V                   -                     -            -                      -            -                      3,040
,tipTeintMantenance
and en U-kesp                      -                     -            -                      -            -                     1,310
Total Expenditures          2,220                2,780         2,220                 4,280         2,220                     8,420
INCOME
Groundnuts
800 kg x 19                   15,200                     -       15,200                      _       15,200
1,000 kg x 19                         -               19,000            -                      -            -
1,100 kg x 19                        -                     -            -                 20,900            -
1,200 kg x 19                                              -            -                      -            -                     22,800
Millet 3/
1i   Wkg                       consumed              consumed     consumed               consumed     consumed                   consumed
1,400 kg of which 200 kg
for sale                           -                     -            -                 2,000             -
1,600 kg of which 0oo kg
for sale                           -                     _     -                             -            - _4,000
Gross Cash Income               15,200                19,000       15,200                 22,900       15,200                    26,800
N&r CASH INCOME                 12,980               16,220        12,980                18,620        12,980                    18,380
Income from Contract Work
9 days x 800                                               -            -                      -            -                     7,200
25,581
Incremental Cost                              560                              2,060                               6,200
Incremental Benefit                         3,800                              7,700                              18,800
1/ Average investment per farm for implements and draft animals amounts to about CFAF 13,000 (calculation assumes a 10% down-payment
on implements and 50% on oxen).
2/ Yield increment due to selected seed declines from year 1 to 4; farmers would purchase new seed every fifth year.  See Table 4.
3/ Millet yield assumptions: yield of millet planted after groundnuts fertilized with 75 kg/ha of phosphate fertilizer would increase
from 600 (the current average to 700 kg/ha). Use of ox-drawn equipment would increase millet yield by an additional 100 kg/ha.
May 14,1970



ANNEX 6
Table 2
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BUDGET FOR AN AVERAGE COTTON/SORGHUM FARM
(0 ha cotton, 2 ha sorghum)
FARM MODEL                             I                                II                                III
Selected Seed                     Selected Seed              Selected Seed, Insecticides
+ Insecticides                    + Insecticides              + Fertilizers + Ox-drawn
_________________________             + Fertilizers                        SquiDment
Before               After        Before               After        Before                After
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CFAF - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
EXPSNDITURSS
Cotton Seed
15 kg x 10                          150                  150          150                  150          150                   150
Cotton Insecticides
and Spraying Costs
5,050   F X 05                        -                2,525            -                2,525            -                2,525
5otton Fertilizer
100 kg x 20                           -                    -            -                2,000             -                2,000
3orghum Seed
70 kg x 10                          200                    -          200                     -         200                     -
20 kg x 15                            -                  300            -                  300             -                  30
Hand Tools                          600                  600          600                  600          600                   350
Amnuity for Oxen 1
and Implements _-                                        -            -                                 -                 4,610
A;u ipmen,, Ma intenance
and d    Up-keep          _                              -
fotal Expenditures            950                3,575          950                 5,575          950               11,685
_.eed C5otton Yields
200 kg x 27.5                     5,500                    -        5,500                     _       5,500
400 kg x 27.5                         -               11,000            -                     -           -                     -
500 kg x 27.5                                              - _                          13,750            -
750 kg x 27.5                         _                                                                                   20,625
Sorghum Yields
l,200 kg                         consumed             consumed    consumed              consumed    consumed              corsumed
1,500 kg of which 300 kg
sold @ 5FAF 10/kg                                        -            -                                                  3,000
Gross Cash Income           5,500                11,000        5,500               13,750        5,500               23,625
NET GASH INCOME             4,550                 7,425        4,550                8,175        4,55O               11,940
Income from Contract Work
9 days @ bOO                                                                                                               7.200
19,140
Incremental cost                            2,625                             4,625                            10,735
Incremental Bernefit                        5,500                             8,250                             25,325
1/ Average investment per farm for implements and draft animals amounts to about CFAF 17,700
May 1L, 1970



ANNEX 6
NIGER                                     Table 3
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BUDGET FOR RICE/MILLET FARM
(1 ha Rice, l1j ha Millet)
FARM MODEL                                   I                               II
Selected Seed                    Selected Seed
+ Fertilizer                    + Fertilizer
+ Ox-drawn
_                4 ~~~~9ipment
Before              After       Before               After
 - - - - - - - - - - - - CFAF - - - - - - - - -   - - -
maPENDITURES
Rice Seed: 2 crops/year
100 kg x 15 x 2                            3,000                   -        3,000                   _
100 kg x 20 X 2                                -               4,000            -               4,000
Rice Fertilizer: 2 crops/year
125 kg  x 54 X                                 -              13,500            -              13,500
Millet Seed
15 kg X 10                                   150                 150         150                  150
Hand Tools                                   700                 700          700                 350
Annuity for Oxen Implements Y                                      -            -               3,825
.quipment, Maintenance and Oxen Up-keep        -                   -           -                1,750
lotal Cash Cost                      3,850              18,350        3,850               23,575
INCOME
Rice
1,00  kg x 2 - 2,000 kg                                            -            -
less    300 kg                  consumed                  -      consumed
1,700 kg x 15.0           25,500                    -      25,500
2,000 kg x 2 = 4,000 kg                        -                   -            -
less    300 kg                        -              consumed          -
3,700 kg x 15.0                -               55,500           _                    _
2,500 kg x 2 = 5,000 kg x 15.0                                     -            -              75,000
Millet
900 kg                                 consumed                  -      consuned                  -
1,200 kg                                       -              consumed          -              consumed
Gross Cash Income                   25,500               55,500      25,500               75,000
NET CASH INCOME                     21,650               37,150      21,650               51,425
Income from Contract Work
9 days x oOO                                                                                    7,20'0
58,625
Incremental Cost                                    14,500                          19,725
Incremental Benefit                                 30,000                           56,700
1/ Average investment per farm for implements and draft animals amounts to about CFAF 15,500
MRy L4, ;970



A1GEX 6
Table 4
Page 1
N IGER
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
YIELD AND PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
Yield Assumption: Unit in kg/ha
Groundnuts (shelled)
5.1         Year
Input Combination                            0     1       2      3      4
Selected Seed l/                            800  1,000    940    900    870
Selected Seed and Fertilizer                800  1,100  1,040  1,000    970
Selected Seed, Fertilizer and
Animal-drawn Equipment                    800  1,200  1,140  1,100  1,070
Millet 2/
Residual Fertilizer                         600    700    700    700    700
Residual Fertilizer and Animal-drawn
Equipment                                 600    800    800    800    800
Seed Cotton
Selected Seed and Insecticides              400    800    800    800    800
Selected Seed, Insecticides and
Fertilizer                                400  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000
Selected Seed, Insecticides, Fertilizer
and Animal-drawn Equipment                400  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500
Sorghum 3/
Animal-drawn Equipment                       600    750    750    750    750
Rice V
Selected Seed and Fertilizer              2000  4,000  4,000  4,000  4,000
Selected Seed, Fertilizer and Animal-
drawn Equipment                         25000  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000
Millet 2/
Animal-drawn Equipment                       600    800    800    800    800
1/ Selected seed will give highest yield in the first year, thereafter yields will
decline making seed changes mandatory every five years.
2/ Fertilization of groundnuts will also influence the millet crop following in the
rotation, due to the residual effect of phosphate fertilization. Use of equip-
ment will also have an impact on millet and 3 sorghum production.
4/ Paddy. Yield assumptions are based on double cropping.
3/ Based on the project's three development phases, farmers getting implements are
assumed to have gone through phases 1 and 2 during the years 0 and 1.
May 14, 1970



ANNEX 6
Table h
Page 2
Producer Price Assumptions: CFAF per kg
-------------Year-----------------
0       1         2        3         h
Gcoundnuts (shelled)        20.0   19.6       19.5     19.5      19.0
Seed Cotton                 28.5   28.0       28.0     27.5      27.5
Rice (paddy)                16.5   16.0       16.o     15.0      15.0
Millet                      10.0   10.0       10.0     10.0      10.0
Sorghum                     10.0   10.0       10.0     10.0      10.0



NIGER
AGRICULTTRAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Unit              Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
INCREMENTAL OUTPUr
Groundnuts: Produ9Wion               Tons               5,036             8,718             11,281            13,095
Value_/               CFAF million            98.8             170.0              220.0             248.8
Cotton    : Produi\ion               Tons                 402               849              1,304             1,764
Value-                CFAF million            11.3              23.8               35.9              48.5
Rice       : Produc0ion              Tons                  80               300                640               980
Valuel-                CFAF million            1.3               4.8                9.6               14.7
CFAF million          111.4             198.6              265.5              312.0
INCREMENrAL INPUT (CFAF million)
Selected Seed                                              40.3              4o.6               40.9              41.2
Fertilizer                                                  1.7               5.1                7.7               9.7
Fertilizer FED/Govt. - Subsidies                             .5               1.8                3.4               5.5
Animal Drawn Equipment
Oxcarts and S9uipment spares)                               -                13.1               18.4              23.2
Oxen                                                        -                 7.8               io.4              12.8
Pesticides (including spraying cost)                        6.9              11.0               17.8              26.8
Insecticides, FED subsidy                                   1.4               2.7                -                 -
Ectension Service                                           2.6               6.2               12.3              18.4
Technical Assistance CNCA                                   -                 -                  8.9               8.9
Equipment Maintenance                                                          .7                1.7               2.9
Oxen Upkeep                                                                    .8                1.9               3.1
Scales                                                      3.0               4.5                6.7               8.3
56.4              94.3              130.1             160.8
INCREMENTAL NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION                           55.0             104.3              135.4             151.2
Rate of return exceeds 100%
4.O.B. value less transportation and marketing cost.
May Ilb, 1970



ANNEX 7
Table 2
NIGER
ANNUAL PROJECT ACREAGES
(Incremental year by year)
(in ha)
Year      1          2        3         4      Total
Groundnuts a/
A.  Selected Seed                        25,000   25,000   25,000   25,000   100,000
B.  Selected Seed and
Fertilizer                            360      380       410      450      1,600
C. Selected Seed, Fertili-
zer and Implements                   -         900    1,200    1,500      3,600
Cotton I/
A.  Insecticides                          1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000       4,000
B. Insecticides and Ferti-
lizer                                  10       58        26       16        110
C. Insecticides, Fertilizer
and Implements                                  50        70       80        200
Rice t/
A.  Fertilizer                               40        80       80        80       280
B. Fertilizer and Implements                           20       60        60       140
NUMER AND COST OF IMPLEMENT UNIrS
Number                       Total
Groundnuts (1 unit cultivating 2 ha)         -          450      600       750     1,800
Cotton (1 unit cultivating 1 ha)             -           50       70        80       200
Rice (1 unit cultivating 2 ha)               -           10       30        30        70
OFAF Million
Groundnuts @ CFAF 12,400/unit                _          5.6      7.4       9.3     22.3
Cotton @ CFAF 22,900/unit                    -          1.1      1.6       1.8      4.5
Rice  CFAF 18,000/unit                      -          0.2      0.5       0.5      1.2
Oxcarts, Seeders and Spares                  -          6.2      8.9      11.6     26.7
Total                                  -        13.1      18.4     23.2      54.7
a/ For each category, areas under B and C are included in areas under A.
b/ Areas produce two crops each year.



L       I        B       Y       A
REPUBLIC   OF    I16ER                                                                                                                                             ID
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION                                                                                                          '                                           Q
All-weather roads                                                                            /-'
All-weather tracks                                                       4  
Tracks without regular maintenance
Rainfall lines (mm per yeor)                                                                                                      *Dja
Rice~Zuf                                      tp,Guezzar 
Sorghum                                                                               _-
~$  Nisbe Beans                                                  -. T-                                            ~'~
X     M   A     L     I      300                                              /_'S  N
41 ~~~                                       ~N
VOLTA_   it  \   -80n                                                                                                                        AP lA;=T_-W
Al            'FALING                                                                                                        N-GUIGM0
I                                                            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I_
8001+-Z-                                                                              maouc \  -    -Goad                        N I  GA
Ni ~ ~     ~       ~
t    e~N 
._.    F-                   t.-49                                                              , -4o-                                                                  \ AAU 
Matameye                                       Soro6 5X        '~        LAKE CHAD A
UPPER  7                                           ?Oo                                         Moo r
800                             oyOa                     I          G               E               R             IA
MARCH 1968                                                                                                                                                                           LBRD    2247



xXXt+i++ L /B YA
+
REPUBLIC  OF  NIGER                                                          Gr                                                                     +
-                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+
X                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
AGRICULTURAL  (REDIT  PROJE(T                                           ae                                                                               4.
- MA/N ROADS                                                                          ic
--- REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           at
PROJECT AREA:                                                            k                                                                                  a-
AREAS OFUNCC                                                                                                                                                I.
PRESENT ACrIVITIES 30/09/68                                                                                                                                +
<, AREAS OFUN/CC                                               +K$
FUTURE ACTI/VTIES  /969-72                     ,                                                                                                           +
M A L / S >  -' +                                                                                             4.
4.                                                                                                           +
4.                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+
Z                                     |                  \~~~~~~~~~~~~ In Gall//                                                                   ^ 
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
m +++ +, + + < ^ or ~~~~~~~AbbIla z                kN                                                                      'Gourti     I'
>                                                                            /J/GER/A~~~+                                                4.
14 'A~~~~~4
*   %~~~~~~~~~~~~1
+Aoo'T H U-                                                                                                                         +=
LO                                                                                                       4.
ElOM                                                          DAOY-.X
MPARI             OUL6A      FIIGEN5IM
+
+                      E~~~~~~~~4 
,D~~~~~~~~6
APRIL lljfig ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     Tjloo    THI TBRAE



