CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 207 NIR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 207 NIR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1970 between the REPUBLIC
OF NIGER (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AsSocIATON (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of a program for the improvement
of agricultural productivity;
WHEREAS the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (here-
inafter called CNCA) and the Union Nigerienne de Credit
et de Cooperation (hereinafter called UNCC) will carry out
parts of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as hereinafter set forth, and the Borrower will make
available to CNCA and to UNCC, for the purposes of
carrying out such parts of the Project, parts of the pro-
ceeds of the development credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available to the Borrower inter alia on the
terms and conditions provided herein and in a project
agreement of even date herewith among the Association,
CNCA and UNCC;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The Borrower and the Association accept
all the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-


﻿4
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
Sections 6.06 and 8.02 of the General Conditions are
amended by inserting the words ", the Project Agree-
ment" after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement".
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CNCA" means the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole of Niger, an etablissement public a caractere in-
dustriel et commercial of the Borrower, established by
Law No. 67-32 dated September 20, 1967, whose Statuts
are set out in Decree No. 68-57 dated April 8, 1968.
(b) "UNCC" means the Union Nig'rienne de Credit et
de Cooperation, an 6tablissement public a caractere ad-
ministratif of the Borrower, established by Law No. 67-32
dated September 20, 1967, whose Statuts are set out in
Decree No. 68-56 dated April 8, 1968.
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith among the Association, CNCA and UNCC,
providing inter alia for the carrying out of Parts I and III
of the Project by CNCA and of Part II of the Project by
UNCC, and shall include any amendments thereof or sup-
plements thereto agreed from time to time among the Bor-
rower, the Association, CNCA and UNCC.
(d) "Project Coordinating Committee" means the com-
mittee referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
(e) "CFDT1" means the Compagnie Frangaise pour le
Developpement des Fibres Textiles, a societe frangaise a
but non lucratif.


﻿5
(f) "GMV" means Groupenent Mutualiste Villageois,
one of the groupements mutualistes villageois of Niger,
local associations of heads of rural families created to
undertake common development activities and able to take
part in the development cooperatives.
(g) "IRAT" means the Institut de Recherches Agro-
nomiques Tropicales et de Cultures Vivri'res, a bureau
d'etudes frangaise a but non lucratif.
(h) "Short-term loans" means loans or credits with
maturities of not more than one year.
(i) "Medium-term loans" means loans or credits with
maturities in excess of one year, but does not include loans
or credits with maturities of more than five years.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to five hundred and eighty-
four thousand dollars ($584,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Sched-
ule or by further agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have


﻿6
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as shall
be required to meet payments to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under the Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made:
(i) under Categories I, II and IV of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement on account of payments for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territory of the Borrower; or
(ii) on account of payments for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or
in connection with the importation or supply of,
goods or services for the Project.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15
and July 15 commencing July 15, 1980 and ending January
15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 1990 to be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment


﻿7
thereafter to be one and one-half percent (11/ %) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of the Development Credit Agreement and of the Project
Agreement to expenditures on the Project, described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services included in Categories I
and II of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit re-
ferred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement shall be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in February 1968, and in accordance with such other pro-
cedures supplementary thereto as are set forth or referred
to in Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement, or as shall be
agreed upon among the Borrower, the Association, CNCA
and UNCC; (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods and services, as well as contracts for the procurement
of services included in Category IV of said allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be subject to the prior
approval of the Association, and (iii) whenever a contract
for the procurement of any goods or services to be financed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit is
awarded to a supplier or consultant not registered in the
territory of the Borrower, the Borrower shall facilitate the
accomplishment by such supplier or consultant of all regu-
latory formalities which may be required to enable it to
carry out such contract.
SECTIoN 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services


﻿8
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
SECTION 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall make available to CNCA in the
currency of the Borrower:
(a) the amounts of the Credit which may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account under Categories I and II of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement, or the equivalent thereof, in
the form of equity capital of CNCA to be held by, or in
the name of, the Borrower; and
(b) in the form of a grant to CNCA, the amounts of the
Credit which may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
under Category IV of the said allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit.
SECTION 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall make available to UNCC, in the
form of a grant, and in the currency of the Borrower,
the amounts of the Credit which may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account under Category III of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause CNCA to carry
out Parts I and III of the Project, and shall cause UNCC
to carry out Part II of the Project, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administra-
tive, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿9
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all action
which shall be necessary on its part to enable CNCA and
UNCC to perform all of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement, and shall not take any action which
would interfere with the performance by CNCA or UNOC,
respectively, of such obligations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon any of the
provisions set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Borrower shall at all times take all such action as will be
necessary or appropriate to enable CNCA to earn, and
shall not take any action which would prevent CNCA from
earning, such revenues as will be sufficient for CNCA:
(i) to cover all of CNCA's operating expenses (includ-
ing taxes, if any);
(ii) to meet all interest and other charges due by CNCA
in respect of debts incurred by CNCA;
(iii) to maintain adequate reserves for bad and doubtful
debts; and
(iv) to maintain adequate general reserves.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territory of the Borrower and the international
balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the
service thereof, the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement. and


﻿10
the performance by CNCA and by UNCC of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the performance by
CNCA and by UNCC of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territory of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall (i) maintain or
cause to be maintained records adequate to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof),
and to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial con-
dition of the agency or agencies of tile Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project,
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of the agency or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the


﻿11
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents and pro-
curement schedules for the Project and any material modi-
fications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall establish, and
thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a proj-
ect coordinating committee which shall (i) coordinate all
aspects of the Project with the Borrower, CNCA, UNCC
and all relevant ministries, agencies or instrumentalities of
the Borrower, and (ii) seek close cooperation between the
Borrower, CNCA, UNCC and all relevant ministries, agen-
cies and instrumentalities of the Borrower on all matters
related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall appoint as members of the
Project Coordinating Committee senior officials represent-
ing its Ministries of Commerce and Industry, Finance, and
Rural Economics, its Commissariat General au Developpe-
ment, the Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits du
Niger (CSPPN), the Societe Nigerienne de Comnercialisa-
tion de l'Arachide (SONARA), the Directeur of CNCA,
the Directeur of UNCC, as well as one member selected by
CFDT. The Borrower shall appoint a chairman of the
Project Coordinating Committee who shall have been ap-
proved by the Association, and the Directeur of UNCC
shall serve as secretary to such Committee.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon any of the
provisions set forth in Sections 4.01 or 4.05(a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall make available to the Proj-
ect Coordinating Committee all funds, facilities, services
and other resources which shall be necessary to enable such
Committee to carry out its functions.
SECTION 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿12
(a) cause IRAT to initiate soil inoculation tests with
nitrogen-fixing bacteria during the 1971 groundnut
crop season and thereafter to continue such soil
inoculation tests;
(b) cause cotton fertilizer trials to be continued under
the supervision of IRAT;
(c) take such measures as are necessary on its part to
ensure that agreement No. 10/68/MER/UNCC of
October 1968 between it and CFDT, providing for
extension services for cotton growers, shall be re-
newed at least until June 30, 1974;
(d) progressively eliminate all subsidies to rice farmers
in respect of nitrogen fertilizers, and shall discon-
tinue all payments and benefits arising from such
subsidies not later than July 1, 1974; and
(e) periodically review  the support policies for rice
paddy prices and shall gradually cause such prices
to be reduced in a manner adequate to develop the
potential domestic market.
SECTION 4.07. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of the provisions set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agree-
ment and unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided to UNCC
such funds as are reasonably required to enable UNCC to
carry on its operations on a sound administrative and
financial basis.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall pay to CNCA ade-
quate compensation for all services rendered by CNCA in
respect of all social and relief operations, and for any
losses resulting therefrom.
SECTION 4.09. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿13
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territory, and shall be free from all
restrictions imposed under any such laws.
SECTION 4.10. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territory on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the con-
tinuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may, by
notice to the Borrower, declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately to-
gether with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) CNCA shall have failed to perform any of its cove-
nants or agreements under the Project Agreement,
and such failure shall have continued for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b) UNCC shall have failed to perform any of its cove-
nants or agreements under the Project Agreement,
and such failure shall have continued for a period


﻿14
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower;
(c) Law No. 67-32 dated September 20, 1967, relating
to the establishment of CNCA and of UNCC, or any
other law or regulation of the Borrower relating
to the organization, powers or financial structure of
CNCA or of UNCC, to the powers, duties, functions,
responsibilities and credit policies of CNCA, or to
the powers, duties, functions and responsibilities of
UNCC, shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated or waived without the agreement of the Asso-
ciation in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of CNCA or of UNCC to carry out
the covenants and agreements set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(d) any legislation or regulation of the Borrower relat-
ing to agricultural development or to agricultural
credit in the territory of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived with-
out the agreement of the Association in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the Project;
(e) the Statuts of CNCA or any provision thereof shall
have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated
or waived without the agreement of the Association;
and
(f) the Statuts of UNCC or any provision thereof shall
have been materially amended, suspended, abrogated
or waived without the agreement of the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:


﻿0
15
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of CNCA shall have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of UNCC shall have been duly authorized or rati-
fied by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) the Project Coordinating Committee shall have been
established, and its chairman, secretary and members ap-
pointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05
of this Agreement; and
(d) the auditor or auditors referred to in Section 2.05(b)
of the Project Agreement shall have been appointed.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
CNCA and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
CNCA in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
UNCC and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
UNCC in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date September 29, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02 (b), 4.06 (a), (b), and (e), and 4.07, of this
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date


﻿16
twenty years after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere 'des Finances
Niamey, Niger
Cable address:
Minifinances
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿17
caused the Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ GEORGES CONDAT
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿18
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the
improvement of agricultural productivity and consists of
the following parts:
I. A program of loans to be made by CNCA to farmers
and to GMVs for:
a. Medium-term loans for:
(i) oxen, ox-drawn farm implements, carts and
spares; and
(ii) scales for the cooperative marketing of ground-
nut, rice and cotton;
b. Short-term loans for the supply of seeds, fertilizer
and pesticides, including spray costs.
II. The expansion and strengthening of cotton and ground-
nut extension services by the addition of approxi-
mately 100 persons to the extension personnel of
UNCC.
III. Technical assistance to CNCA for the training of local
personnel and to assist CNCA in bank management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
I. Implements, carts, spares and scales
for Part I(a) of the Project            260,000
II. For Part I(b) of the Project
(a) fertilizer                           35,000
(b) pesticides                           65,000
III. Extension services under Part II of
the Project                             160,000
IV. Technical Assistance under Part III
of the Project                           64,000
Total        584,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will at the request of the Borrower, be re-
allocated by the Association to any of the other Categories
if the estimate of the cost of items included in such other
Category shall have increased.


