CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 207 NIR
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
AND
UNION NIGERIENNE DE CREDIT ET DE COOPERATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 207 NIR
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
AND
UNION NIGERIENNE DE CREDIT ET DE COOPERATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1970 among INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN (hereinafter called the
Association), CAIssE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (herein-
after called CNCA) and UNION NIGERIENNE DE CREDIT ET
DE COOPERATION (hereinafter called UNCC);
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Niger (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a develop-
ment credit in various currencies equivalent to five hundred
eighty-four thousand dollars ($584,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in such development credit agreement,
but on condition inter alia that CNCA and UNCC agree to
undertake certain obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS CNCA and UNCC, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the above-mentioned develop-
ment credit agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in the Project Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the development credit agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association and
in the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association dated January 31, 1969 as
made applicable thereto shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of CNCA
SECTION 2.01. (a) CNCA shall carry out Parts I and III
of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, agricultural and
financial practices.
(b) CNCA shall provide to the Project Coordinating
Committee its full cooperation to ensure the coordination
by such Committee of all aspects of the Project.
(c) CNCA shall cause the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04
of the Development Credit Agreement to be applied in
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement and of the Project Agreement to expenditures
under the Project included in any of the Categories I, II
or IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit re-
ferred to in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.02. In carrying out Part I of the Project,
CNCA shall:
(a) make loans or credits to GMVs or to farmers in
accordance with the credit policies set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, or as shall be agreed upon among the
Association, the Project Coordinating Committee and
CNCA, and CNCA shall apply to such loans and credits
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the Development
Credit Agreement;
(b) pay out of the proceeds of each such loan or credit
made to any GMV or farmer such amounts as are required
to cover the reasonable cost of goods and services procured


﻿5
by UNCC pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement and.
to be financed out of the proceeds of such loan or credit; and
(c) exercise its rights in relation to each such loan or
credit to any GMV or farmer in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Association and CNCA,
and, except as the Association and the Project Coordinating
Committee shall otherwise agree, CNCA shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amend-
ing, abrogating, assigning or waiving any provision of the
agreement between CNCA and such GMV or farmer relat-
ing to such loan or credit.
SECTION 2.03. (a) CNCA and the Association shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) CNCA and the Association shall from time to time,
at the request of either one, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance by CNCA
of its obligations under the Project Agreement, and the
administration, operations and financial condition of CNCA.
(c) CNCA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or
the performance by CNCA of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. (a) CNCA shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound business,
e.onomic and financial practices and under the supervision
of competent and experienced management.
(b) CNCA shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of materially amending, suspending,


﻿6
abrogating or waiving any provision of its Statuts dated
April 8, 1968, without the prior approval of the Association.
(c) CNCA shall at all times take all such action as it is
or shall be authorized to take, including revision of the
interest rate or annual commission on its lending opera-
tions, or both, as the case may be, which shall be necessary
or appropriate to provide it with revenues sufficient:
(i) to cover all of its operating expenses (including
taxes, if any);
(ii) to meet all interest and other charges due by it in
respect of debts incurred by it;
(iii) to maintain adequate reserves for bad and doubtful
debts; and
(iv) to maintain adequate general reserves.
(d) Beginning not later than on July 1, 1974, CNCA
shall provide such funds for short-term loan operations
as are necessary in each year to ensure continued avail-
ability and financing of seasonal inputs at a level which
shall not be less than the average level of short-term loan
operations for seasonal inputs over the period beginning
on the date of the Development Credit Agreement and end-
ing on June 30, 1974.
SECTION 2.05. (a) CNCA shall maintain separate ac-
counts for all of its loan or credit operations financed in
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) CNCA shall have its financial statements (balance
sheet, statement of earnings and expenses and other re-
lated statements) audited annually by one or more compe-
tent and experienced auditors acceptable to the Association
and shall, promptly after their preparation and not later
than four months after the close of the fiscal year to which
they apply, transmit to the Association certified copies of


﻿7
such statements and a signed copy of the report of the
auditor or auditors.
SECTION 2.06. (a) To assist in carrying out Part III of
the Project, CNCA shall employ a competent and expe-
rienced banking expert acceptable to the Association, to
such extent and upon such terms and conditions as shall
have been approved by the Association.
(b) Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, CNCA
shall, subject to the provisions of Section 2.04(a) of this
Agreement, appoint or cause to be appointed not later than
July 1, 1973, a Directeur who shall be a national of Niger
trained to that end by, or with the assistance of, the bank-
ing expert referred to in paragraph (a) hereof.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants of UNCO
SECTION 3.01. (a) UNCC shall carry out Part II of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, agricultural and finan-
(ial practices.
(b) UNCC shall provide to the Project Coordinating
Committee its full cooperation to ensure the coordination
by such Committee of all aspects of the Project.
(c) UNCC shall cause the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.05
of the Development Credit Agreement to be applied in
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement and of the Project Agreement to expenditures
under the Project included in Category III of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿8
SECTIoN 3.02. In carrying out Part II of the Project,
UNCC shall employ additional extension personnel trained,
or to be trained by UNCC, as cooperative extension agents
or as field agents, in such number, and having such quali-
fications, as shall be agreed among the Borrower, the Asso-
ciation, the Project Coordinating Committee and UNCC.
SECTION 3.03. (a) UNCC and the Association shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) UNCC and the Association shall from time to time,
at the request of either one, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance by UNCC
of its obligations under the Project Agreement, and the
administration, operations and financial condition of UNCC.
(c) UNCC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or
the performance by UNCC of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
SECTION 3.04. (a) UNCC shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound business,
economic and financial practices and under the supervision
of competent and experienced management.
(b) UNCC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of materially amending, suspending,
abrogating or waiving any provision of its Statuts dated
April 8, 1968, without the prior approval of the Association.
(c) UNCC shall maintain records adequate to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project.


﻿9
SECTION 3.05. (a) UNCC shall promptly furnish to
CNCA all requests for loans or credits submitted by GMVs
or farmers determined by UNCC to be eligible for financing
under the Project, and UNCC shall provide to CNCA all
such information relating thereto as CNCA shall reasonably
request.
(b) In respect of each such request to CNCA for a loan
or credit, UNCC shall promptly furnish to CNCA the speci-
fications, quantities and estimated cost of the goods and
services eligible for financing under Part I of the Project
which UNCC determines to be required by the GMV or
farmer making such request.
SECTION 3.06. (a) UNCC shall be responsible for cen-
tralizing the procurement of all goods and services included
in Categories I and II of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement which UNCC shall have determined, pur-
suant to Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, to be required
by the GMVs or farmers who shall have been granted 1oans
or credits by CNCA pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (f this
Agreement, and UNCC shall take all action necessary to
procure such goods and services promptly as needed and
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement and of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(b) UNCC shall furnish to the Association and to CNCA,
promptly upon their preparation, the specifications, con-
tract documents and procurement schedules in respect of
goods and services referred to in paragraph (a) hereof,
and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Association and CNCA shall reason-
ably request.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
UNCC shall insure or cause to be insured the imported


﻿10
goods procured for any GMV or farmer pursuant to para-
graph (a) hereof against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by CNCA to replace or repair such goods.
(d) Whenever UNCC shall have procured any goods or
services for any GMV or farmer pursuant to paragraph
(a) hereof, UNCC shall promptly submit to CNCA all
invoices or statements of expenses relating thereto and
received by UNCC, for payment by CNCA to the suppliers
thereof, and UNCC shall not require CNCA, or any GMV
or farmer, to make any payment to UNCC in respect of
any such goods or services.
SECTION 3.07. Upon completion of Part II of the Project,
UNCC shall take all measures required to ensure that its
extension services will continue to operate so as to meet
the reasonable needs of cooperatives, and of cotton, ground-
nut and rice farmers in Niger.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Project Agreement shall come
into force and effect on the Effective Date.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
pursuant to Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, the
Association shall promptly notify CNCA and UNCC of
this event and, upon the giving of such notice, the Project
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
SECTIOx 4.02. The Project Agreement and all obligations
of the parties thereunder shall terminate on the date on


﻿11
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms or on a date twenty years after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 5.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under the Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by the
Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or re-
quest shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex, or radiogram to the party to which it is re-
quired or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified, or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For CNCA:
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
B.P. 296
Niamey, Niger


﻿12
Cable address:
CNCA
Niamey
For UNCC:
Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation
B.P. 296
Niamey, Niger
Cable address:
UNCC
Niamey
SECTION 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted under the Project Agreement on behalf of CNCA or
of UNCC may be taken or executed after consultation with
the Borrower by such person or persons as CNCA or UNCC
shall respectively designate by written notice to the Bor-
rower and to the Association.
SECTION 5.03. CNCA and UNCC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority of the per-
son or persons who will, on behalf of CNCA and UNCC
respectively, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by CNCA
or by UNCC pursuant to any of the provisions of the
Project Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
SECTION 5.04. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to any party
under the Project Agreement upon any default shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor


﻿13
shall the action of such party in respect of any default, or
any acquiescence in such default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or
subsequent default.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
By /s/ GEORGES CONDAT
Authorized Representative
UNION NIGERIENNE DE CREDIT
ET DE COOPERATION
By /s/ GEORGES CONDAT
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Credit Policies of CNCA
1. Except as may be otherwise agreed among the Asso-
ciation, the Project Coordinating Committee and CNCA,
CNCA, in carrying out Part I of the Project, shall apply
the following criteria in addition to requiring adequate
security:
(a) In respect of Part I(a) of the Project, CNCA shall
provide medium-term loans to be repaid over a period of
four years subject to a fixed commission charge of five
percent (5%) per annum on the original amount of the
loan or credit to GMVs or to farmers determined by UNCC
to be eligible for financing under the Project pursuant to
Section 3.05(a) of this Agreement.
(b) In respect of Part I(b) of the Project, CNCA shall
provide short-term loans to be repaid over a period of not
more than one year subject to a fixed commission charge
of six percent (6/o) per annum on the original amount of
the loan or credit to GMVs or to farmers determined by
UNCC to be eligible for financing under the Project pur-
suant to Section 3.05(a) of this Agreement; provided, how-
ever, that in respect of short-term loans for seeds, no
interest shall be due but repayment over a period of not
more than one year shall be equal to one hundred and fifty
percent (150%) of the quantity of seeds received by such
GMV or farmer.
(c) CNCA shall require GTMVs or farmers receiving
loans or credits under Part I(a) of the Project to con-
tribute from their own resources a down payment equiva-
lent to ten percent (10%) of the amount of each such loan
or credit.
(d) The terms and conditions of each loan or credit
under part I of the Project shall be set out in an agreement
between CNCA and the GMV or farmer receiving such
loan or credit, and all such agreements shall be substan-


﻿15
tially in the form of a model agreement agreed upon by
the Association, the Project Coordinating Committee and
CNCA.
(e) CNCA shall from time to time review with the Asso-
ciation and the Project Coordinating Committee, and may
adjust in agreement with the Association and the Project
Coordinating Committee:
(i) the interest rates in respect of medium- and
short-term loans, having due regard to the pro-
visions of Section 2.04(c) of this Agreement;
(ii) the repayment period in respect of iaedium-
term loans; and
(iii) the down-payment requirements in respect of
medium-term loans, having due regard to the
farmers' financial capabilities.
2. CNCA shall not provide loans or credits for social or
relief operations except in a trustee capacity, with losses,
if any, to be borne by the Borrower, and with adequate
compensation of CNCA by the Borrower for any services
rendered by CNCA in respect of all such loans or credits
for social or relief operations.
*


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1. With respect to goods and services included in Cate-
gories I and II of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement and required to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding pursuant to Section 3.02
of the Development Credit Agreement, identical or similar
items to be procured shall be grouped wherever practicable
for the purposes of bidding and procurement, and such
grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the
Association.
2. Items or groups of items expected to cost not more
than the equivalent of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000)
shall not be subject to international competitive bidding,
and they sh9ll be procured in accordance with the Borrow-
er's procedures applicable thereto on the date of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement.
3. With respect to items or groups of items expected to
cost more than the equivalent of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000):
(a) UNCC shall submit to the Association and to CNCA
for approval the tender documents, forms of contracts and
a description of the proposed tendering procedures. The
timing between the calling of bids and bidding shall be not
less than 30 days and the timing between the award of con-
tract and delivery shall be not less than 45 days.
(b) Before a contract is awarded, UNCC shall submit to
the Association and to CNCA for approval, a summary of
the bids received, a justification of the proposed award and
any other document requested pursuant to Section 3.06 of
this Agreement. In comparing bids, the following rules
shall be observed:


﻿17
(i) Bid prices offered in respect of goods produced
outside the territory of the Borrower will con-
sist exclusively of the following components:
(A) the c.i.f. landed price of such goods; and
(B) the handling and dealer's commission in
respect of such goods.
(ii) Bid prices offered in respect of goods produced
or assembled within the territory of the Bor-
rower will consist exclusively of the following
components:
(A) the ex-factory price of such goods, after
deduction of taxes and duties levied on the
importation into the territory of the Bor-
rower of component parts of such goods,
if any; and
(B) the handling and dealer's commission in
respect of such goods.
4. One conformed copy of any contract for the procure-
ment of any of the goods or services referred to in para-
graph 1 hereof shall be sent to the Association and to
CNCA promptly upon its execution.


