CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 846 PAK
Project Agreement
(Fauji Fertilizer Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FAUJI FERTILIZER COMPANY LIMITED
Dated September 14, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 846 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
FAUJI FERTILIZER COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called FFC), a
corporation organized and existing under the laws of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-five million dollars ($55,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that FFC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FFC, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to FFC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FFC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth,
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FFC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
industrial and financial practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist in carrying out the Project,
FFC shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association and FFC.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) FFC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shJll be payable in a currency freely
usable by FFC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, FFC
shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) FFC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) FFC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between FFC and the
Association, FFC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by FFC and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(d) FFC shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of FFC and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.06. FFC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, FFC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. FFC shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land, and all such water and
rights in respect of water as shall be required for carrying out
the Projoct and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land, and all such water and
rights in respect of water are available for purposes related
to the Project.
Section 2.08. FFC shall: (a) on or before December 31, 1978,
submit a staff training program to the Association, and (b)
diligently implement a training program mutually satisfactory
to FFC and the Association.
Section 2.09. FFC shall (a) on or before September 30, 1978,
submit a fertilizer seeding program to the Association, and
(b) diligently implement a fertilizer seeding program mutually
satisfactory to FFC and the Association.
Section 2.10. FFC shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that the execution and operations of the Project are


﻿4-
carried out with due regard to appropriate ecological, environmen-
tal and safety factors, in accordance with environmental quality
and safety standards satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.11. (a) FFC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) FFC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by FFC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. FFC shall not amend any of the agreements to
which it is a party, referred to in the Preamble to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, without prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FFC
Section 3.01. (a) FFC shall at all times manage its affairs,
carry out its operations, plan the development of its business
and undertaking, and maintain its financial position, all in
accordance with sound industrial, financial and administrative
practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by adequate and competent staff.
(b) FFC shall take out and maintain with responsible insur-
ers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. FFC shall consult the Association before making
any changes in the appointment to the FFC offices of Chairman and
Managing Director and Assistant Managing Director.
Section 3.03. FFC shall duly perform its obligations under
the Technical Assistance Agreement, the Know-How Agreement, the
Marketing and Pricing Principles Agreement, the Technical Services
Agreement, the Technical Advisor Services Agreement, the Engi-
neering Agreement, the Construction Agreement and the Gas Purchase


﻿-5-
Agreement and shall not, without the consent of the Association,
assign, amend, suspend, waive or abrogate, in whole or in part,
any of such agreements.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
FFC shall:
(a) at all times take all steps which are necessary to
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations and to
acquire and retain ownership of all lands and to maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties and all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b) at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices; and
(c) not, except in the normal course of its operations,
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.
Section 3.05. If FFC establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
FFC shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obliga-
tions of FFC hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations
were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FFC shall establish a cost control system
and maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. FFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later


﻿- 6 -
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of FFC and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. FFC represents that at the date of this Agree-
ment no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt,
except as otherwise currently reported to the Association or
stated in writing.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, FFC shall not make investments in fixed assets, other than
those required under the Project (including replacement, mainten-
ance and repairs), in excess of the aggregate of $5,000,000
equivalent in any one fiscal year, or the amount of $5,000,000
equivalent plus the balance of the unutilized amounts, if any, of
previous years, subject to a maximum of $15,000,000 equivalent in
any one fiscal year, without the prior approval of the Associa-
tion.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(i) FFC shall not declare any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its share
capital except out of its accumulated net earnings;
and
(ii) FFC shall not pay any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its share capital
(other than dividends or distributions payable
solely in such share capital) or purchase, redeem
or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly for
any consideration, any of such share capital or
prepay any debt if, after giving effect to such
action, the ratio of current assets to current
liabilities (hereinafter referred to as the current
ratio) would be less than 1.5:1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section and of Section 5.07
hereof:


﻿-7-
(i) The term "dividend" shall include dividends on
preferred shares; and the term "preferred shares"
means preferred shares as referred to in the
agreement between FFC and the Consortium.
(ii) The term "current assets" means cash, assets
readily convertible into cash, and all other assets
which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted within twelve months into cash or assets
readily convertible into cash.
(iii) The term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
would be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within twelve months including the portion
of long-term debt maturing by its terms within
twelve months.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, FFC shall:
(a) take all necessary steps to maintain a ratio of debt-
including-subordinated debt to equity not greater than 70:30, and
a ratio of debt (excluding subordinated debt) to equity-plus-
subordinated debt no greater than 60:40;
(b) take necessary steps to achieve on the Project Com-
pletion Date a current ratio of at least 1.5:1 and maintain
thereafter a current ratio of at least 1.2:1; and
(c) not incur any additional debt if its net revenues for
the fiscal year immediately preceding its incurrence shall be
less than 1.4 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all its debt then outstanding (including
the debt to be incurred).
For the purpose of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on
which it is originally incurred, and the term
"subordinated debt" includes debt owed by FFC
under the AID Agreement provided that the ratio of
debt to equity-plus-subordinated debt is greater
than 50:50, and any debt incurred prior to Project
Completion Date to finance the costs of the Project
above the equivalent of $272,000,000;


﻿-8-
(ii) the term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-in share capital, surplus, accumu-
lated net earnings and free reserves of FFC not
allocated to cover specific liabilities, and
includes preferred shares;
(iii) debt and subordinated debt shall be deemed to be              4
incurred (A) under a loan contract or agreement, on
the date and to the extent that it is drawn down
pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and
(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered
into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding;
(iv) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources less operating and administrative
expenses, including taxes, surcharges and other
levies, if any, but before provision for deprecia-
tion and interest and other charges on debt;
(v) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt and subordinated
debt; and
(vi) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by FFC, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purpose of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at such rate of exchange as shall be
reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of FFC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the Subsidiary Loan shall have
.been fully repaid by FFC, but in any event not
sooner than fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify FFC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For FFC:
Fauji Fertilizer Company Limited
Harley Street
Rawalpindi Cantt.
Pakistan
Cable address:                     Telex:
FOUNDATION                         5821 FAUJI PK
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of FFC mayibe taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and the Managing
Director shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and y.ar
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
FAUJI FERTILIZER COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, FFC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
,.he case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Assoc-ition will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. FFC shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured in accordance with procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule: (i) bids shall be invited
on the basis of the c. and f. (Pakistan port of entry) price and
either the free-alongside-ship (hereinafter called f.a.s.) price
or the free-on-board (hereinafter called f.o.b.) price at the
port of loading for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically manufactured goods; (ii) bidders must include full
details regardino the weight and cubic content of shipment; (iii)
for imported goois a pre-determined cost of forwarding, and
freight would be added to the f.a.s./f.o.b. erice to arrive at the
equivalent c. and f. (Pakistan port of entry) price; (iv) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (v) the cost to FFC of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of FFC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c. and f. price (with freight as bid
or constructed, whichever is lower) of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay


﻿- 13 -
for the importation of the goods offered in su"efi group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price (with freight as bid or con-
structe6, whichever is lower) of such goods if said customs duties
and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A-bid in such
further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts up to an aggregate amount of $6,000,000 equivalent
for the procurement of items:
(a) proprietary to the process design, and
(b) with limited sources of availability whose supply is
critical to the efficient execution of the Project, may be placed
after quotations have been obtained from appropriate foreign
suppliers, provided that prior approval of the Association is
obtained for said items and for the list of suppliers, and the
terms and conditions of contracts so placed are acceptable to the
Association.
2.   In addition, contracts up to an aggregate amount of
$3,000,000 equivalent for the procurement of items estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, may be awarded to foreign
suppliers pursuant to such competitive practices as are appro-
priate under the circumstances.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, FFC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 14 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, FFC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform FFC and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, FFC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform FFC and state the
reasons for such determination.


