                                                  CONFORMED COPY


                                              CREDIT NUMBER 4990-SN




       Financing Agreement
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing)


                           between


                 REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL


                             and


    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                     Dated June 10, 2011
                                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 4990-SN

                                 FINANCING AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated June 10, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:


ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to twenty-six million
        five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,500,000) (variously, “Credit?
        and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
        Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be
        equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

2.06. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment schedule
        set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is EURO.
                                               -2-




                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
                party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
                the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
                have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
                action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.



ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following:

        (a)     A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
                significant part of it, will be carried out.


                   ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

        (a)     The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
                carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
                macroeconomic policy framework.


5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.
                                                  -3-




                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister in charge of finance

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Economy and Finance
                Rue René N’Diaye
                Dakar
                Senegal

                Cable:                   Telex:                  Facsimile:

                MINIFINANCE              32034                   221 – 821 1630

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:           Telex:                  Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)             1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.

        AGREED at Dakar, Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.



                                 REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL




                                 By /s/ Abdoulaye Diop
                                                                       Authorized Representative


                                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                 By /s/ McDonald P. Benjamin
                                                                       Authorized Representative
                                                -4-



                                         SCHEDULE 1

                    Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

A.     Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under the
Program include the following:

Private Sector Development

    •   Issuance of a decree by the President of the Recipient doubling the road user charge
        transferred to the FERA from the initial levels of CFA F 35.45, CFA F 31.95, and CFA F
        15.95 per liter respectively for diesel, premium gasoline, and regular gasoline.

Human Development

    •   Satisfactory progress made in strengthening human resource management in the
        education sector, as evidenced by the adoption by the HR department of the Ministry of
        the Recipient in charge of primary education of an identification system using an
        identification number for all contractual teachers consistent with civil service
        identifications and the effective integration of the Volunteers Project Unit into the HR
        directorate of the Ministry of Education.

    •   Satisfactory progress made in the implementation of the Recipient’s hospital policy, as
        evidenced by the preparation and signing by the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of
        health of performance contracts with at least five Public Hospitals consistent with the
        decrees fixing the financial regime and describing the financing arrangements and
        oversight of the Public Hospitals.

    •   Adoption and initiation of implementation of a medium-term plan for sustainable
        financing of the Nutrition Reinforcement Program.

Mitigating Vulnerabilities

    •   Establishment by the Ministry of the Recipient in charge of fisheries of an industrial
        fishing vessel registry and artisanal vessel matriculation database accessible to the public
        on-line.

Public Governance

    •   Improvement of budget reporting to the public by presenting and publishing the 2011
        budget envelopes for the sectors of education, health, justice and decentralization using
        the spatial code at, at least, the departmental level as evidenced by detailed SIGFIP
        reports.

    •   Adoption of a new law governing land ownership that modernizes and clarifies the
        overall legal framework for land ownership.
                                                 -5-



     •   Adoption by the Council of Ministers of the Recipient of amendments to the Statistics
         Law that mandate a more open access by users to anonymised primary data.

Section II.       Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.       General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
         the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
         specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.       Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing (except for amounts required to
         repay the Preparation Advance) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which
         the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The allocation of the amounts of
         the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:

              Allocations                    Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                   (expressed in SDR)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                            25,300,000

(2) Preparation Advance                                   1,200,000

     TOTAL AMOUNT                                        26,500,000


C.       Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

         1.       No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
                  Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
                  and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                  framework.

D.       Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

         1.       all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                  Association into an account designated by the Recipient (“Dedicated Account?)
                  and acceptable to the Association; and

         2.       the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
                  into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget
                  management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

E.       Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
         shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any
         time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded
         Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an
         amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the
         Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
                                             -6-



F.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.   have the Dedicated Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
     Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
     Association;

2.   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
     after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of
     such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request;
     and

3.   furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Dedicated Account and
     its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2012.
                                             -7-



                                       SCHEDULE 2

                                    Repayment Schedule




                                            Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
                                                  (expressed as a percentage)*
           Date Payment Due

On each June 15 and December 15:


commencing June 15, 2021 to and including                       1%
December 15, 2030


commencing June 15, 2031 to and including                       2%
December 15, 2050




* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid,
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the General
Conditions.
                                           -8-



                                      APPENDIX

                                  Section I. Definitions

1.   “CFAF? means Franc de la Communauté financière Africaine, the currency of the
     Recipient.

2.   “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

     (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
             international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
             Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
             financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

     (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
             International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
             United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
             or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
             designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:

     Group           Sub-group               Description of Item
     112                                     Alcoholic beverages
     121                                     Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                             tobacco refuse
     122                                     Tobacco, manufactured
                                             (whether or not containing
                                             tobacco substitutes)
     525                                     Radioactive and associated
                                             materials
     667                                     Pearls, precious and
                                             semiprecious stones,
                                             unworked or worked
     718             718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                             thereof; fuel elements
                                             (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                             for nuclear reactors
     728             728.43                  Tobacco processing
                                             machinery
     897             897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                             platinum group metals (except
                                             watches and watch cases) and
                                             goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                             wares (including set gems)
     971                                     Gold, non-monetary
                                             (excluding gold ores and
                                             concentrates)
                                                         -9-




         (c)       for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
                   consumption;

         (d)       for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
                   prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
                   the Recipient is a party[, and any other goods designated as environmentally
                   hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association]1);

         (e)       on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
                   Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
                   and

         (f)       with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
                   collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
                   Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
                   other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
                   the Association to address such practices when they occur.

3.       “FERA? means Fonds d’Entretien Routier Autonome, the Recipient’s Autonomous Road
         Maintenance Fund.

4.       “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association General
         Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
         in Section II of this Appendix.

5.       “HR? means human resources.

6.       “Nutrition Reinforcement Program? (known in French as Programme de Renforcement
         de la Nutrition) means the Recipient’s program designed to improve the nutritional status
         of the most vulnerable groups of the Recipient’s population and set forth or referred to in
         the letter dated January 25, 2002 and updated in June 2006 from the Recipient to the
         Association.

7.       “Preparation Advance? means the advance referred to in Section 2.05 of the General
         Conditions (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section II below), granted by
         the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the
         Association and on behalf of the Recipient on June 24, 2010.

8.       “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
         growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
         letter dated April 15, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
         Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
         the Association in support of the Program during its execution.


1
 In certain operations, the Association agrees with the Recipient on materials excluded from financing on
environmental grounds (e.g., exclusion of specified pesticides). The bracketed clause is to be included only if
agreement between the Recipient and the Association on a list of goods designated as environmentally hazardous for
purposes of this Financing has been reached and recorded in the agreed minutes of negotiations or a supplemental letter
                                                -10-



9.      “Public Hospitals? means Etablissements Publics Hospitaliers, the Recipient’s public
        hospitals established and functioning pursuant to the Recipient’s Law 98-08, dated
        February 12, 1998.

10.     “SIGFIP? means Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques, one of the
        Recipient’s budget management information systems.

11.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section
        II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

12.     “Statistics Law? means the Recipient’s Law No.2004-21, dated July 21, 2004 which
        organized the statistical activities.

13.     “Volunteers Project Unit? means the Recipient’s Projet des Volontaires de l’Educationset
        up through Arrêté No 000732, dated February 19, 2003 issued by the Minister in charge
        of primary education.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
        relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
        modified to read as follows:

                “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …         (c)     The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
                until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
                Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.      Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
        follows:

                “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
                                          -11-




            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
            to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
            such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
            execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
            of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
            accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:

            “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support
            of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
            Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
            are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
            to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
            of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project? throughout these
            General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?.
