Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6489 
 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 5 
Region 
AFRICA 
Country 
Senegal 
Sector 
Public financial management, (30%), education (20%), health, 
(20%), infrastructure (10%), environment (10%), and statistics 
(10%). 
Operation ID 
P121178 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Senegal 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
April 13, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
April 18, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 26, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and Monetary 
Union (WAEMU). With a population estimated at about 12.5 million, its economy is dominated by a few 
strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services.  The informal sector accounts for about 60 
percent of its economy.  Its rural economy frequently suffers from drought, and lacks access to basic 
services and infrastructure, leading to low productivity, high emigration and higher poverty rates in rural 
areas. About half of the population lives in cities, including 25 percent in Dakar. 
Senegal still enjoys a broadly stable political climate.  The Senegalese political system continued to show 
a
degree of democratic maturity with the recent holding of local elections, on March 22, 2009.  The local 
elections were widely viewed as fair and transparent, and saw the victory of opposition parties in several 
key urban centers.  The electoral outcomes have tended to sharpen the domestic political debates between 
the presidential majority and a still fragmented but emboldened opposition.  In part as a result of this new 
political balance, there have been repeated Cabinet changes in the past year, albeit without significant 
policy discontinuity. Overall, the victory of the opposition in important municipalities suggests that 
policies and reforms on which a broad consensus has not been forged could be significantly more difficult 
to advance. 
II. 
Operation Objectives 
The proposed operation is the second and last of a second series of three PRSCs
—PRSC-4 of PRSCs 4-6) 
designed to support the implementation of the Government’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP-
II) and assist in the development and early implementation of its successor PRPS-III.  The development 
objectives of this second series are to contribute to strengthening the Government of Senegal’s policy 
making and institutional capabilities towards: (i) improving the environment for private investment; (ii) 
improving access to basic services and ensuring greater efficiency of public expenditure on human capital 
Page  2
formation; (iii) mitigating social and environmental vulnerabilities; and (iv) promoting better governance 
through public financial management, procurement, debt management and statistical systems reforms. 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The proposed operation is consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s FY07-10 Country Assistance 
Strategy.  The proposed credit would be the second and last of a new, second series of two Poverty 
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). It follows a first series of three PRSCs successfully completed over 
2004-07, two stand-alone Development Policy Operations, one in 2008 (focusing on the energy sector) 
and another in 2009 (under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-track Facility), and the first operation 
(PRSC-IV) of the new series approved by the Board on June 1
st
 2010.  Policies and reforms supported by 
this operation are well aligned with the four pillars of Senegal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
(PRSP-II), which the CAS supports. 
In the Bank’s program, policy-based lending is seen as a critical instrument in support of the country’s 
PRSP agenda.  The focus of policy-based lending operations was expected to cover budgetary reforms, 
economic reforms for wealth creation, and support for policies that improve the delivery of basic social 
services to the poorest segments of the population over the medium term. The CAS envisaged the 
preparation and implementation of a new series of PRSCs focused on these areas and PRSC V is the 
second and last operation in that regard. 
IV. 
Tentative financing 
Source
:
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
42 
 
Total 42 
 
Tranches (1 tranche, $m.)  
First 
Tranche 
 
         
 
 
 
 
42 
Total 
 
          
 
 
 
 
42 
V. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for the administration of credit.   
VI. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
Several risks could jeopardize this PRSC series expected outcomes and benefits.  These include:  
(i) a deeper and/or longer macroeconomic downturn in the current global context than anticipated; (ii) 
political opposition, including from vested interests and heightened in the context of the 2012 presidential 
elections; and (iii) weak capacity to implement reforms.  Yet, the design of this operation, with a 
relatively focused agenda and high donor involvement, should help mitigate these risks. 
Senegal’s short-term prospects continue to depend on developments in the global economy.  A slower 
normalization and/or longer macroeconomic downturn in the current global context than anticipated still 
represent a significant risk, contingent on developments in partner country economies, mainly in Europe.  
One clear mitigation strategy is for the authorities to continue to steer a stable fiscal course for the year 
and adopt resolute reforms, especially in the PFM area, that may in turn mobilize donors to provide 
additional resources to buffer the budget from the consequences of a more abrupt slow down. 
Political opposition, including from vested interests, represents a major potential obstacle to reforms and 
the achievement of the operation’s objectives, especially in the context of the next presidential elections 
Page  3
currently scheduled for early 2012.  Nonetheless, the balance of risks to the policy objectives of the 
proposed series, including the proposed PRSC V, is still viewed as favorable to moving forward with it.  
Vested interests can also represent important obstacles to reform, especially reforms that foster 
transparency in the use of public resources.  Under the proposed operation, risks arising from opposition 
and vested interests are mitigated by the fact that all policy measures are implemented before credit 
approval.  In addition, since risks of reversals should not be neglected, continued Bank engagement with a 
core team almost entirely field-based also enhances the likelihood that reforms are being followed 
through and policies sustained.  The design of the series also aims to mitigate risks by ensuring a built-in 
process of collaborative analytical, dialogue and stakeholder consultations process. 
 
VII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
The proposed operation is expected to have a positive direct impact on the medium-term poverty 
reduction trend
.
This impact will be through an expected strengthening of the gover
nment’s policy 
making and institutional capabilities to ensure an enabling environment for the private sector (component 
1), improve the State’s ability to provide basic services efficiently and equitably (component 2), mitigate 
environmental vulnerabilities (component 3), and improve governance in the management of public 
resources (component 4). 
Policy reforms in areas supported by the proposed operation may affect selected groups, but the specific 
measures supported by the operation itself will not have negative impacts. PRSC V supports actions that 
may be viewed as ultimately impacting selected groups, notably payers of the road user charge and 
fishermen. In the first case, the doubling of the road user charge supported by the operation does not 
affect consumer prices as the specific tax – which is CFAF200 per liter of refined oil (premium gasoline, 
regular gasoline and diesel) – will remain unchanged, and only its structure in terms of share allocated to 
the FERA is changed. In the case of fisheries, the PRSC V supports policy reforms associated with Bank 
projects that have been subject to Bank safeguards policies.  While policies to restrict access to fish 
resources may impact negatively on the livelihood of some resource users, the PRSC-V operation itself 
supports only the immatriculation of the artisanal fishing vessels and transparency in the allocation of 
licenses. Moreover, social and environmental impacts of the Bank’s fisheries projects have been 
addressed through the adoption by the Government of a Process Framework that defines a participatory 
process based on consensus seeking, as well as through the establishment of a social fund in component 
three of the GIRMaC project that would compensate fishers and communities for any losses as a result of 
reduced fishing effort.
 
Environment Aspects  
Under Operational Policy 8.60 on Development Policy Lending, the Bank is required to determine 
whether specific country policies supported under the operation are likely to cause significant effects on 
the country’s environment, and, in the event of such likely effects, assess country systems for reducing 
any such adverse effects and enhancing such positive effects.  In the event of significant gaps in the 
analysis, or shortcomings in the country systems, the Bank is required to identify how such gaps or 
shortcomings would be addressed before or during program implementation, as appropriate. 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not likely to have 
significant negative impacts
 on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  
None of the policy measures supported by PRSC V outside the “Managing Vulnerabilities” component 
(Component 3) are likely to have direct negative effects on Senegal’s environment and natural resources.  
The structural reforms supported by PRSC V aim generally at strengthening policy making and 
institutional capabilities of the State through legal, institutional, operational and systems reforms that by 
Page  4
themselves entail no specific impact on the environment. The significant increase is road maintenance 
activity is not expected to cause environmental degradation. Road maintenance comprises routine 
maintenance and periodic maintenance. Usually, these two activities do not involve any reconstruction or 
road widening. In exceptional circumstances, particularly when there is a significant backlog on periodic 
maintenance, one can face heavy periodic maintenance that involves quasi- rehabilitation work and can 
include in some cases restoration of shoulders in rural areas or widening of shoulders in towns or rural 
district capitals. As a result,  there are generally no major environmental concerns, except  the necessary 
preventive measures such as: (i) the management of contractors’ work camp and workshop areas; (ii) the 
general management and reinstatement of borrow pits; (iii) the disposal of waste material; (iv) health and 
safety measures; (v) traffic signals; (vi) traffic diversion, etc. The agency in charge of road maintenance 
(AATR) is subject to strict environmental standards, and has a good track record of compliance. Reforms 
supported under the PRSC series’ Component 3—fisheries, and those under this component for the PRSC 
series (coastal erosion, forest resource management and environment budgeting) are intended to reinforce 
the Senegalese Government ability to mitigate critical vulnerabilities to its environment and natural 
resources and thus have a positive impact on the country’s environment, forests and coastal areas.  The 
context, rationale, Government agenda and focus of the PRSC series in this reform area are discussed at 
length in Section 3 above. 
VIII. 
Contact point 
World Bank: 
 
Alain W. D'Hoore 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5352+4155 / 221-33-859-4155 
Email: adhoore@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
Mamadou Ndione 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5352+4117 / 221-33-859-4117 
Email: mndione@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
Borrower: 
Contact:  
Mr. Abdoulaye Diop
 
Title: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Tel: 
 
221 821 03 78 / 822 33 47 
Fax: 
 
221 822 41 95 
 
IX. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
