Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6160 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 5 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Other social services 
(20%); Health (20%); Sub-national government administration 
(10%); General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P121178 
Borrower(s) 
GOUVERNMENT OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
November 29, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 21, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 30, 2011 
1. Country Background 
 
Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and Monetary 
Union (WAEMU). With a population estimated at about 12 million, its economy is dominated by a few 
strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services.  The informal sector accounts for about 
60 percent of its economy.  Its rural economy frequently suffers from drought, and lacks access to basic 
services and infrastructure, leading to low productivity, high emigration and higher poverty rates in rural 
areas. About half of the population lives in cities, including 25 percent in Dakar. 
Senegal still enjoys a broadly stable political climate.  The Senegalese political system continued to 
show a degree of democratic maturity with the recent holding of local elections, on March 22, 2009.  
The local elections were widely viewed as fair and transparent, and saw the victory of opposition parties 
in several key urban centers.  The electoral outcomes have tended to sharpen the domestic political 
debates between the presidential majority and a still fragmented but emboldened opposition.  In part as a 
result of this new political balance, there have been repeated Cabinet changes in the past year, albeit 
without significant policy discontinuity.  Overall, the victory of the opposition in important 
municipalities suggests that policies and reforms on which a broad consensus has not been forged could 
be significantly more difficult to advance. 
2. 
Operation Objectives and rational of Bank involvement  
 
The proposed operation is the second and last in a new series of three PRSCs that aims to contribute to 
strengthening the Government of Senegal’s policy making and institutional capabilities towards 
improving the environment for private investment, improving access to basic social services (education, 
health and nutrition), mitigating social and environmental vulnerabilities, and promoting better 
governance by strengthening public financial management, public procurement, debt management and 
statistical systems. 
This operation is the second and last of a second series of three PRSCs—PRSC-4 of PRSCs 4-6) 
designed to support the implementation of the Government’s Second Poverty Reduction Strategy 
(PRSP-II) and assist in the development and early implementation of its successor PRPS-III.  This 
second series aims to contribute to strengthening the Government of Senegal’s policy making and 
institutional capabilities towards improving the environment for private investment
,
improving access to 
Page  2
basic social services (education, health and nutrition), mitigating social and environmental 
vulnerabilities, and promoting better governance by strengthening public financial management, public 
procurement, debt management and statistical systems.  The reform program supported under this series 
continues and deepens the agenda introduced by the PRSC IV and previous operations, including the 
first series (PRSC 1-3), the FY08 Energy Sector Reform credit and the FY09 Public Finance Support 
Credit. 
 
The proposed operation is consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s FY07-10 Country Assistance 
Strategy.  The proposed credit would be the second and last of a new, second series of two Poverty 
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). It follows a first series of three PRSCs successfully completed over 
2004-07, two stand-alone Development Policy Operations, one in 2008 (focusing on the energy sector) 
and another in 2009 (under the IDA Financial Crisis Response Fast-track Facility), and the first 
operation (PRSC-IV) of the new series approved by the Board on June 1st 2010.  Policies and reforms 
supported by this operation are well aligned with the four pillars of Senegal’s Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Paper (PRSP-II), which the CAS supports.  
 
3. Environment Aspects 
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation.  These include: (i) a 
deeper and/or longer macroeconomic downturn in the current global context than anticipated; (ii) 
political opposition, including from vested interests and heightened in the context of the 2012 
presidential elections; and (iii) weak capacity to implement reforms.  Yet, the design of this operation, 
with a relatively focused agenda and high donor involvement, should help mitigate these risks. 
 
4. Tentative financing 
 
Source
:
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
5. 
Contact point
:
Alain W. D'Hoore 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5352+4155 / 221-33-859-4155 
Email: adhoore@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
Mamadou Ndione 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5352+4117 / 221-33-859-4117 
Email: mndione@worldbank.org 
Location: Dakar, Senegal (IBRD) 
 
