Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
January 26, 2011 
 
His Excellency M. Abdoulaye Diop 
Minister of State,  
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Dakar, Sénégal  
 
Re:  
Senegal 
–
Advance Agreement for the Preparation of the 
PRSC-V  
(PPA Q727-SE) 
 
Honorable Minister: 
 
It has come to our attention that a drafting mistake was inserted in the Grant Agreement for the 
Project Preparation Advance for the PRSC-V (PPA Q727-SE) that was signed on June 24, 2010.
 
As such, we propose to revise the PPA Grant Agreement dated June 24, 2010 for the above-
referenced Project by deleting Sections 4.01 and 4.02 in the Annex thereof in their entirety and 
inserting the following new text in lieu thereof: 
 
“4.01. 
Service Charge
.
The Recipient shall pay a service charge on the Withdrawn 
Advance Balance at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.  The 
service charge shall accrue from the respective dates on which amounts of the Advance 
are withdrawn and shall be paid in arrears in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.02 of this Agreement.  Service charges shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day 
year of twelve 30-day months. 
 
4.02. 
Repayment.  
The Withdrawn Advance Balance shall be repaid by the Recipient 
to the World Bank (together with any service charges accrued thereon) in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the Standard Conditions and the following 
provisions: 
 
(a) 
Refinancing under the Refinancing Agreement:
 
If, on or before 
the Refinancing Date, a Refinancing Agreement has been executed by all of its 
parties, then the full amount of the Withdrawn Advance Balance shall be repaid 
to the World Bank (together with any service charges accrued on the Advance to 
the date of repayment) as soon as the Refinancing Agreement becomes effective, 
by means of a withdrawal by the World Bank of an amount of the Refinancing 
Proceeds equivalent to the Withdrawn Advance Balance plus such service 
charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Refinancing Agreement.   
 
Page  2
(b) 
Repayment in the absence of a Refinancing Agreement:
 
If, on or 
before the Refinancing Date, no Refinancing Agreement has been executed by all 
of its parties, or if, by such date or at any time thereafter, it has been so executed 
but terminates without becoming effective, then: 
 
(i) 
if the amount of the Withdrawn Advance Balance does 
not exceed $50,000, it shall be repaid by the Recipient to 
the World Bank (together with service charges accrued 
on the Withdrawn Advance Balance to the date of 
repayment) on such date as the World Bank shall specify 
in a notice to the Recipient, which shall in no event be 
earlier than 60 days following the date of dispatch of 
such notice; and 
 
(ii) 
if the amount of the Withdrawn Advance Balance 
exceeds $50,000, it (together with service charges 
accrued on the Withdrawn Advance Balance to the 
Notice Date) (the “Aggregate Balance”) shall be paid by 
the Recipient to the World Bank in ten approximately 
equal semiannual installments, in the amounts and on the 
dates (“Payment Dates”) which the World Bank shall 
specify in a notice to the Recipient.  In no event shall the 
first Payment Date be set earlier than 60 days following 
the date (“Notice Date”) of dispatch of such notice.  The 
Recipient shall pay a service charge on the Aggregate 
Balance at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum, payable in arrears on each Payment 
Date.  The service charge shall be computed on the basis 
of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.” 
 
All other provisions of the Agreement except as amended herein, shall remain in full force and 
effect. 
 
Please confirm that you agree with this approach by countersigning this letter below.  This 
amendment shall become effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter. 
 
Sincerely Yours 
 
//S// Habib Fetini 
Habib Fetini 
Country Director for Senegal 
Africa Region 
 
ACKNOWLEGED AND AGREED: 
 
____//s// H.E. Abdoulaye Diop_____________
His Excellency M. Abdoulaye Diop 
Page  3
Minister of State,  
Minister of Economy and Finance
 
