Document of V
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3342-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PETROLEUM AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS PROJECT
May 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 11
Currency Unit = Baht (B)
$1.00        =  B 23
B I          =  $0.04
B 1 million = $43,478
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric, unless otherwise stated
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CDC        =  Commonwealth Development Corporation
EGAT       =  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
LNG        =  Liquified natural gas
LPG        =  Liquified petroleum gas
MKT        =  Marketing (Oil Distribution and Supply) Unit within PTT
MMSCFD     =  Million standard cubic feet per day
NEA        =  National Energy Administration
OECF       =  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ONG        =  Natural Gas Operations Unit within PTT
OPEC       =  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PTT        =  Petroleum Authority of Thailand
TORC       =  Thailand Oil Refining Company
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
/1 As of July 1981.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT)
Guarantor:         Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:            $90 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:             20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:    The project would help to upgrade the use of natural gas
discovered in the Gulf of Thailand; it would finance
three components: (a) the construction of a gas separa--
tion plant of 350 million standard cubic feet per day
(MMSCFD) capacity, transfer pipelines and a marine ter-
minal; (b) construction of bulk storage distribution
facilities for marketing of liquified petroleum gas
(LPG), and (c) technical assistance for engineering and
supervision of the project, training of PTT's staff in
operation and maintenance of the gas plant and in
storage and distribution, and prefeasibility studies for
PTT's investment programs and for formulation of energy
policies. The primary benefits of the project would
come from import substitution of LPG and diesel, from
exports of LPG and from development of the basic feed-
stock for the petrochemical industry. The major physi-
cal risks involve accidental damage to the offshore
pipeline or to the key offshore platform. The pipeline
could be repaired within a fairly short period but
repairs of the platform would need more time to be
completed and could interrupt supply of gas to the plant
until an additional contract becomes operational in
mid-1985. While a decline in world prices for LPG would
make the proposed investment in the gas separation plant
less attractive, this is considered unlikely since
present LPG prices are already unusually low.  In any
event, risk that a decline in LPG prices would adversely
affect the economic justification of the plant
disappears after 1990 as Thailand would have built up a
substantial gas surplus by that time.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) ------
Gas plant                            116.8      146.2    263.0
LPG storage/distribution (PTT)        40.5       46.0     86.5
LPG distribution (private)            41.7       57.8      99.5
Studies                                1.8        7.7      9.5
Contingencies
Physical                            17.6       38.0     55.6
Price                               15.0       18.6     33.6
Total Project Cost             233.4      314.3    547.7 /a
Interest during construction
- Bank financed                        -        5.0      5.0
- Other                             20.5       25.8     46.0
Front-end fee on Bank loan               -        1.3       1.3
Total Financing Required       253.6      346.4    600.0
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign   Total
---   ($ million) ------
IBRD                                             90.0     90.0
OF.CF                                    -       65.0      65.0
CDC                                   25.0          -     25.0
OPEC Special Fund                        -       20.0      20.0
Export Credits                        12.0       68.0      80.0
Commercial bank loans                111.6       18.4    130.0
Government                            35.0          -      35.0
PTT cash generation                   10.0          -      10.0
Private LPG distributors              60.0       85.0    145.0
Total                          253.6      346.4    600.0
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan
Bank FY           1983      1984      1985      1986
--------- ($ million) --------
Annual            18.6      41.5      23.0       6.9
Cumulative        18.6      60.1      83.1      90.0
Rate of Return: 29%
Appraisal Report. No. 3868-TH, dated May 24, 1982
/a Of which taxes and duties amount to about $48 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE PETROLEUM
AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $90 million to help finance a
Liquified Petroleum Gas Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years' grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. Tentative
arrangements have been worked out for the participation of five cofinanciers:
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF, Japan) with a loan of $65 million
equivalent; the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC, U.K.) with a loan
of about $25 million equivalent; OPEC Special Fund with a loan of $20
million equivalent; export credits totalling about $80 million equivalent;
and commercial bank loans totalling about $130 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on September
18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated, and an
economic report entitle "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy"
(Report No. 3067a-TH), which proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with
the problems was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September 1980
and issued on January 8, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Frequent changes at the top levels of government have character-
ized recent political developments in Thailand. General Kriangsak Chomanan
was Prime Minister-from November 1977 to February 1980. His third cabinet
resigned following increasing public and parliamentary criticism of its
economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected by the National
Assembly as Prime Minister after receiving the support of nearly all major
political parties. General Prem's government, formed in March 1980,
/1 Part I is essentially the same as that included in the President's
Report (P-3175-TH) dated April 12, 1982 for the Fourth Telecommuni-
cation Project (Loan 2143-TH) approved by the Executive Directors on
May 13, 1982.



- 2 -
included leaders from the political parties which supported him. General Prem
soon announced his government's policies on a number of issues including
economic and social development. These policies place high and immediate
priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural incomes and
improving health and education. Particular emphasis was given to generating
more jobs, and a rural public works program, similar to the 1975/76 Tambon
Program, was included as a major element in the strategy. The Government also
committed itself to contain inflation, although it recognized the need for a
substantial adjustment of energy prices and most public enterprise tariffs.
Furthermore, it decided to institute reforms in monetary and fiscal policy and
to reduce the trade deficit through improved export performance and
development of domestic energy resources.
4.        After a period of political consolidation, during which an attempt
was also made to inform the public better about the need to take corrective
measures, the Government began to take steps to implement these policies in
the fall of 1980. In March 1981, however, the Social Action Party and other
coalition parties withdrew from the cabinet on an issue of handling fuel oil
contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chart Thai, and Democrat parties as well as a number of technocrats. Shortly
thereafter there was an attempted coup by a group of military officers which,
however, failed. During much of the summer of 1981, the political position
of the second Prem cabinet appeared to be weak, particularly in the wake of
the devaluation of the baht against the dollar in July, which resulted in
much public criticism. Since then, however, the Prime Minister's position
strengthened, not least because of the relatively favorable economic
developments, especially in the agricultural sector. Parliament passed the
FY82 budget nearly unanimously. In December 1981, the Government's parlia-
mentary basis was broadened significantly when the Social Action Party
rejoined the cabinet.
Past Economic Trqnds and Recent Changes
5.        The 1960s and early 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic
development in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4 to 5%
per capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely
on an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response
to export opportunities, was a major factor contributing to these develop-
ments as well as to a sustained growth of-exports. An increase in the
investment level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid indus-
trial growth. Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keep-
ing the debt service ratio quite low. The incidence of poverty was reduced
substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to about 31% by 1975/76. However,
poverty still remains a problem, and significant regional disparities exist,
with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the highest per
capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecommunica--
tions, schools, public health and other services than the other three regions,
the North, the Northeast and the South. Considerable variations also remain
within regions: farmers who have diversified into the new cash crops have
in many cases succeeded in crossing the poverty line, while the incomes of



-3-
those unable to shift out of suosistence rice culture have stagnated. By
the mid-1970s it became apparent that Thailand was facing increasingly
difficult problems of development, including the lack of new arable land to
continue to absorb the rapidly growing labor force, and an emerging balance
of payments constraint as a result of deteriorating terms of trade. In
order to deal with such problems the country needed to shift its pattern of
growth from one based on the extension of land under cultivation and on
import substituting industries to one based on increasingly intensive use of
land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions.
6.        In the past three years Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A relatively
high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.7% per annum between 1975 and
1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 6.3% in 1980) but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on
foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977 and 1978, by 10%
in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government deficit reached
4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the
current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and 1978, but it rose
to 7.5% of GDP in 1979 and 7.2% of GDP in 1980; consequently there has been a
rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low external debt. -
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to the
changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979, policy
adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They included
sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and electricity;
measures to increase government revenues; amendments to the usury laws, which
permitted an increase in interest rates; and the introduction of regulations
to increase financial stability and exercise more monetary restraint. In the
second half of 1980, the Government began to give serious attention to
developing a longer-term comprehensive program for the economy, and continued
to implement necessary, but politically contentious, economic decisions. In
October 1980 price controls were lifted on 29 of 36 goods. In the same month
the Government started on a reform of the tariff structure, reducing import
duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by between 10% and 60%. In
November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen out of line with inter-
national prices, causing domestic shortages, were increased by 60%. In a
number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum prices were increased
further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half times as high as at
the start of 1979. During the first half of 1981, charges for other public
services (water, transport, communications) were increased substantially
(mostly by at least 50%). During this period, the Government also introduced
various fiscal measures designed to limit the central government deficit.
8.        Despite the effect that these measures inevitably had on the price
level and on effective demand, economic performance in most areas appears to
have been good during the first nine months of 1981. Agricultural production
and incomes increased rapidly, due to favorable weather and, until recently,



-4-
agricultural export prices (which a domestic rice price support program
helped to reflect in farmgate prices). The demand and interindustry effects
of a buoyant agricultural sector are stimulating the other sectors of the
economy, largely compensating for the reduced stimulus from the public
sector. Thus, while some sectors of the economy, notably construction, are
weak, the authorities do not foresee a general recession. At the same time,
price pressures have lessened considerably; on a June to June basis, the
increase in the Consumer Price Index of 24% for 1979/80 was reduced to 12%
for 1980/81. Because of reduced inflation and increased nominal interest
rates, real interest rates on 1-2 year time deposits have now become
positive, and private commercial borrowing entails a substantial real cost.
9.        The one area in which the situation did not improve in the first
half of 1981, was the balance of payments. The trade deficit in that period
was $1.6 billion, about $0.5 billion more than in the first half of 1980.
Some deterioration was to be expected, as the deficit in 1980 had been below
trend as a result of a bulge in imports of nonoil intermediates in 1979,
which led to a below-normal level of such imports in 1980. In addition,
exports in the first quarter of 1981 fell below the trend, while the capital
account was negatively influenced by high interest rates abroad. In July,
the pressure on the balance of payments became so strong that the Government
decided to break the longstanding link of the baht to the (then rapidly
appreciating) dollar, decreasing the dollar value of the baht by about 9%,
but keeping the trade-weighted exchange rate of the baht approximately at
the level of the preceding year. Subsequently, the trade deficit has
started to decrease, but for the year 1981 as a whole, it is still likely
that the current account deficit tjill be somewhat higher than the 1980
deficit in absolute amount, although it may be slightly lower (6-7% of GDP)
in relative terms.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which contri-
buted to Thailand's rapid socioeconomic development over the past two
decades will continue to do so. These factors include a relatively
equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to
economic incentives and improved technology, provision of infrastructure by
the Government, and-the dynamism of the private sector in both industry and
agriculture. Also, major gains have been made in family planning in recent
years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from about 3% during the
1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth
two decades later). A new favorable factor is that the first phase of the
infrastructure to tap the substantial natural gas reserves in the Gulf of
Thailand was completed in September 1981, enabling a gradual but significant
reduction in Thailand's dependence on foreign oil.
11.       Against these favorable factors, however, three major negative
ones must be recognized. Firstly, partly as a result of external influences,
Thailand's current account deficits reached, over the years 1979-81, levels



-5-
which are unsustainable in the medium term and therefore must be reduced.
Secondly, the outlook for the world economy is not favorable, and tendencies
toward protectionism are increasing, thus limiting the opportunity to
increase exports (unless offset by effective domestic policies). Thirdly,
the exhaustion of land reserves threatens to severely constrain the growth
in agricultural production, exports and absorption of labor.
12.       In response to the challenges posed by the general economic out-
look for Thailand, the Government has searched intensively for policy
alternatives which would correct the fiscal and external imbalances without
undue consequences for the growth of incomes and employment, especially for
the poor. Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, which
covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major (and inter-
related) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national security
(growth is seen as a derived, rather than a primary objective). The
Government aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of
the Plan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, which
is already being implemented, but mainly through medium-term structural
adjustments which improve production incentives and increase the efficiency
of the economy, and improve its competitiveness, both in the external and
domestic markets.
13.       To assist it in realizing these objectives, the Government has
sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. Agreement was reached with
the Fund on a major standby program, which covers a two-year period starting
in April 1981, and amounts to SDR 814.5 million. In addition, the Fund in
July 1981 provided Thailand with SDR 186 million under its Compensatory
Financing Facility. With regard to the Bank, the Government has requested
assistance in further developing and implementing the structural adjustment
program, incorporated in the Fifth Plan, through a series of structural
adjustment loans. An appraisal mission for the first such loan visited
Thailand in August/September and the loan was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 2, 1982.
Financing Requirements
14        While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of
policies needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress
will require continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures,
though they are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater
efforts will be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources
than in the past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percent of GDP
(about 14% for 1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries
at similar levels of development. Recently the Government has taken steps
to revise the tax structure and to improve collections. Further tax
measures are planned, particularly in the area of improved tax administra-
tion and structure. The goal is to increase Central Government revenues
to about 18% of GDP by 1986, thus substantially reducing the budgetary



-6-
deficits and thereby limiting the reliance on foreign financing. In
addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has already
improved substantially in the wake of recent tariff increases, is expected
to continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing policies.
15.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels
over $2 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP to about 4% in
1987. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts of
external borrowing, totalling about $25 billion over the period 1982-87, of
which about half is expected to be in the form of public and publicly
guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance,
total debt service payments as a percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services will rise from 11.6% in 1980 to 17.9% in 1987. Given the diversi-
fication of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of agricul-
tural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
16.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks,
have been expanding their programs to meet a larger part of Thailand's
growing resource requirements. The rest has been financed through syndicated
loans and bond issues. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy
Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public
sector. The Bank of Thailand is improving its procedures for recording
private borrowing abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt.
External agencies, including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasing-
ly concentrated on project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have
high social benefits, but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To
achieve the level of external resource transfer that is now required, it is
necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange component is low,
to finance some local currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1982, had received 69 IBRD loans (including
two third window loans) and six IDA credits, totalling (net of cancellations)
$2,558 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,337.3 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statem.nt of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 30% for energy; 28% for agriculture and rural
deelopment; 17% for transportation; 6% for telecommunications; 5% for urban



development; 4% for education; 1% for industry; 2% for population/health!
nutrition; and 6% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementa-
tion of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five
years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 24.9%
in 1980. These rates are better than the Bankwide average and the rates for
other countries in the region. In 1981, the Bankwide average was 21.5%
while the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and Morocco,
were 17.9% and 11.7%, respectively.
19.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 60% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 30%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector
has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more bal-
anced program covering irrigation (including land development and support
services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farm-
ers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricul-
tural extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in
the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education,
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent
years education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 10% of the program.
20.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan
for the period 1982-1986, to address: (a) the long-term issues of poverty
alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income disparities; and
(b) the medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy through the inten-
sification of agriculture efficient development of the industrial sector,
promotion of domestic energy conservation and development, increased public
resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity in the public
sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in
Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral lending,
especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at strengthen-
ing the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
21.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth-
particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the
country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at
continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and



-8-
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sectors will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
22.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,063.2 million as of March 31, 1982. As of December 31, 1980,
Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 11.7% of total
debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of total debt
service payments amounted to 8.3% in 1980. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (18% of GDP in 1980) and the
declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt service in
total debt service.
23.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC had made commitments totalling $110.6
million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily
in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community, projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector, and projects in the agricul-
tural sector. A tantalum processing project and a shrimp farming venture
are being considered by IFC management.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption
24.       Total commercial energy consumption in Thailand has increased from
1.1 million tons of oil equivalent in 1960 to over 11.0 million tons of oil
equivalent in 1980, an average annual growth rate of 12%. In 1980, petroleum
products accounted for 73% of total energy and the rest comprising of
indigenous sources of energy. Indigenous resources have accounted for 25 to
30% of total energy consumption during the second half of the 1970s, with
fuelwood/charcoal, hydro, bagasse and lignite typically forming 13%, 7%, 7%
and 3% shares, respectively. The price of crude oil has increased almost
twelve-fold since 1972 and has become a heavy burden on the Thai economy.
In 1980, oil imports, which were about $2,560 million in value, absorbed 44%



of export earnings, leaving Thailand with a substantial current account
deficit. Utilization of natural gas from the Gulf of Thailand, which began
in September 1981, has however improved the economic outlook. Development
of gas and other indigenous resources noted below would enable Thailand to
hold its oil imports at around 10 million tons per annum throughout the
1980s, despite a projected 7% annual increase in consumption.
Potential Energy Resources
25.       Natural Gas.  Fourteen promising gas fields have been discovered
to date by the two overseas firms, Union Oil and Texas Pacific, operating in
the Gulf of Thailand. The total proven and probable offshore gas reserves
is about 20 trillion cubic feet. In addition, Esso has discovered more than
1 trillion cubic feet of gas onshore in Northeast Thailand. Possible
production from already identified reserves is 3,000 million standard cubic
feet per day (MMSCFD), equivalent to 27 million tons of oil annually for
20 years. The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) has been obtaining gas
offshore at Union Oil's Erawan field since September 1981. Deliveries under
the first Union Oil contract (Erawan) will increase to 250 MMSCFD by end
1982, and an additional 300-400 MMSCFD will be available from other fields
in 1985.
26.       Hydro Potential and Lignite Reserves.  Thailand's domestic
hydroelectric potential is about 8,010 MW, of which about 1,341 MW are in
operation and another 1,966 MW will be installed by 1991. The Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) estimates that hydropower will
represent about 20% of its generating capacity bv 1990 ?  c'-r-ed with
about 17/ in 1982.
27.       Recent drillings have indicated substantial increases in Thailand's
lignite (low grade coal) deposits. Lignite reserves total 770 million tons.
Of the reserves at Mae Moh, 350 million tons are proven reserves, sufficient
to sustain a total generating capacity of about 1,725 MW for about 25 years.
28.       Other Energy Resources.  Other energy resources include oil, oil
shale, fuelwood and possibly geothermal. The three small oil fields in the
Fang area of northern Thailand yield about 15,000 tons of oil per year, and
a 1981 Shell discovery in northern Thailand could possibly yield about
0.3 million to 0.5 million tons per annum. Oil shale reserves at Mae Sot are
estimated at 2,500 million tons but are uneconomical to develop at present
prices. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly being depleted and
deforestation is becoming a serious problem. Geothermal exploration is
being carried out by EGAT in the northern part of Thailand near Chiangmai.
LPG Supply and Sales
29.       Refining expansion would increase refinery LPG supplies from the
present 130,000 tons to 190,000 tons by 1985, at which time the proposed gas
separation plant is expected to produce about 460,000 tons of propane and
LPG.



- 10 -
30.       LPG consumption in Thailand has increased on the average by 14.2%
annually, and the demand rose from less than 50,000 tons in 1970 to over
200,000 tons in 1980. LPG is primarily used for cooking fuel, mainly in
urban households and commercial establishments, and in the industrial and
transport sectors. LPG consumption in the residential sector expanded from
53,000 tons in 1971 to 156,000 tons in 1980 and then decreased to 131,000
tons in 1981 because of a shortage of supplies. By 1980 the industrial and
transport sectors each accounted for 13% of total LPG consumption. In 1981
the transport sector share rose sharply to 24% of total LPG consumption with
nearly 50% of the increase due to the taxi fleet shifting to LPG. Total
demand is expected to increase from 230,000 tons in 1981 to 465,000 tons in
1985 and 800,000 tons in 1990, an increase of 14% per annum. By 1990 LPG
use is expected to substitute for gasoline and diesel in about 35% of
pick-ups and about 80% of the mass transport authority bus fleet and inter-
city bus fleet, for a total transport LPG consumption of almost 390,000 tons.
31.       Two marketing companies, Shell and Esso, supplied more than 86%
of the LPG market in 1980; PTT's share was very small (8%) in that year, but
it is growing rapidly, reaching almost 10% of the larger 1981 market. PTT is
expected to capture a bigger share of the market through provincial efforts
and public sector sales, particularly for buses. Although private companies'
aggregate sales will continue to increase, their relative share is expected
to decline to about 64% of the market with the balance captured by PTT by
the end of the decade.
Utilization of Ethane and Propane for Petrochemicals
32.       Gas utilization studies by Davy McKee and Chem Systems (UK and US)
have identified economic uses for 300-350,000 tons p.a. of ethane and up to
100,000 tons of propane from a gas separation plant in the production of
ethylene and propylene known as olefins.  The main derivatives of olefins,
such as low and high density polyethylenes, polypropylene, and ethylene
glycol, would be the nucleus of potential petrochemical industries that
would improve the economic value of the gas plant products. The Government
has initiated a study of the petrochemical complex which is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1982. PTT has agreed that a detailed feasibility
study for construction of an ethylene plant would be completed by June 30,
1983 (Section 3.07 and paragraph 11 of Schedule 5 of draft Loan Agreement).
Energy Pricing and Conservation Policy
33.       An Oil Stabilization Fund was set up in 1974 when the Government
collected the oil companies windfall profits arising from higher retail
prices of the "old cost" oil stock, and payment into this Fund is levied on
retail sales of petroleum products. In 1975, the Government began to
collect money for the Oil Stabilization Fund from oil users by adding it as
a positive or negative tax on the retail price, with a view to using the
Fund as a price stabilization mechanism. However, the subsidization of
retail prices of petroleum products other than gasoline and diesel has



- 11 -
created inefficiencies and distortions in the market, with the relative
price structure of petroleum products encouraging subsitution of gasoline
with imported LPG in cars and pickups and with diesel in small trucks. This
in turn has put financial pressure on the Oil Stabilization Fund which was
depleted rapidly during 1980 and 1981. The Fund is now more than $125
million in debt, principally to PTT. As a shortterm solution the Government
has caused PTT to borrow on its behalf $125 million to pay off the Fund's
debts (para. 60). Current Thai retail prices are shown below:
Petroleum Product Prices in Thailand
(Unit $/gallon)
Import    Marketing
price     margin       Total      Retail
Petroleum Product        (Nov. 81)    cost       delivered   price
LPG                        0.84        0.16         1.00       0.89
Gasoline                   1.00        0.08         1.08       1.88
Kerosene                    1.10       0.07         1.17       1.01
Diesel                      1.07       0.07         1.14       1.22
Fuel Oil                   0.74        0.02         0.76       0.72
34.       The Government has already taken a number of steps to reduce energy
consumption directly, especially during peak hours. Agencies concerned are
preparing policy and program proposals to induce energy conservation in
transport, industry and households. A program of public education is being
developed to encourage households to save energy. To correct the present
distortions both at ex-refinery and retail levels, and to strengthen the
conservation efforts, the Government has agreed under the Structural Adjust-
ment Loan (Loan 2097-TH), to undertake studies in these areas and to initiate
appropriate changes in the price structure and conservation measures in 1982.
As part of this effort, the Government will carry out a gas pricing study
which would develop the methods and mechanisms for determining the price
levels of gas in Thailand. The Government has agreed that the recommenda-
tions of the gas pricing study would be provided to the Bank for comment by
March 31, 1983 and that all such recommendations as are acceptable to the
Government, PTT and the Bank would be implemented promptly (Section 3.04 of
draft Guarantee Agreement).
The Five-Year Energy Plan
35.       The Government attaches high priority to formulating an integrated
and consistent strategy for energy development in Thailand. The major goals



- 12 -
of the fifth development plan emphasize the need to reduce petroleum imports,
both through demand management and conservation measures, and to augment
domestic production of natural gas, lignite, and hydro power. The Government
has carried out studies for identification and development of these energy
resources and the proposed project would finance additional studies in this
field (para. 46). The Five-Year Plan envisages Government's support for
research and development in new domestic energy resources, especially renew-
able resources. The annual cost of the energy investment program will be in
excess of $300 million for oil and gas, including LPG gas separation plants,
$100 million for refineries and $50 million for lignite development. For the
power subsector, capital expenditure to meet increased demand is estimated at
$1,500 million annually.
Energy Sector Administration
36.       The National Economic and Social Development Board and the National
Energy Administration (NEA) are responsible for overall planning and invest-
ment decisions in the energy sector. The Department of Mineral Resources of
the Ministry of Industry handles technical and legal aspects of
exploration and exploitation licensing arrangements for minerals,including
oil and gas, and is also responsible for nonpower lignite mining. The
Ministry of Industry is responsible for PTT and for setting ex-refinery prices
and taxation policy. PTT's primary function is to purchase, refine and sell
oil and gas. The Ministry of Commerce sets margins between ex-refinery and
retail prices. The Ministry of Defense has its own energy department and its
energy activities include management of small oil fields and a small refinery
at Fang and ownership and operation of the Bangchak refinery. The Prime
Minister's office and the Cabinet are involved in determining retail prices of
petroleum products. Their responsibility covers EGAT, the largest state-owned
enterprise. EGAT is responsible for exploration and development of lignite
for use in power plants, in addition to power generation. The Ministry of
Interior controls the retail distribution of electricity under the
Metropolitan Electricity Authority and the Provincial Electricity Authority.
37.       The Government is determined to improve coordination among the
numerous agencies working in this field and has designated NEA to oversee
energy policy and sectoral planning. NEA has commissioned a number of studies
and is about to complete an Energy Master Plan Study for meeting Thailand's
energy requirements up to the year 2000, and it expects to prepare a medium-
term energy strategy by September 1982. To strengthen its policy formulation
capabilities, the Government appointed a National Petroleum Policy Committee
in March 1981 to set policies and targets for the development of the petroleum
industry and the pricing of petroleum products.
38.       Overall, the Government is playing a modest but an increasingly
important role in oil and gas sector operations. Although virtually all
exploration and production remain in the private sector with eight foreign
companies presently active in Thailand, the Government, through PTT and the
Ministry of Defense, owns about half the refining capacity in Thailand and
about 20% of the marketing infrastructure.



- 13 -
Bank Participation in the Sector
39.       The Bank has made eleven loans to EGAT and its predecessor totalling
$542 million to help finance power plants and transmission facilities and two
loans totalling $100 million to the Provincial Electricity Authority to
finance rural electrification projects. The first seven EGAT projects have
been completed satisfactorily. Progress on the ongoing projects is also
satisfactory. A further loan was made to EGAT in June 1980 for lignite
production.
40.       The Bank has become involved in Thailand's program to exploit the
natural gas discoveries in the Gulf of Thailand during the last few years.  An
engineering loan (S-1OTH), approved in July 1978, financed the preparation
of the gas pipeline for appraisal and a $107 million loan (1773-TH),
approved in December 1979 funded the actual pipeline construction. PTT,
through its Natural Gas Operations Unit (ONG), completed the construction of
the pipeline on schedule and within appraisal cost estimates. At the same
time the Bank has helped the Government in formulating sectoral priorities
and in identifying investment programs by undertaking a review of the energy
sector and by financing a gas utilization study and a study to assess the
implication of natural gas on the refinery expansion program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       Prpparation of the proposed project began under the Natural Gas
Pipeline Project (Loan 1773-TH) which included a component to study the uses
of gas. The study confirmed the economic viability of LPG (propane and
butane) extraction, petrochemicals and fertilizers. Early in 1980, PTT
requested the Bank to finance the construction of a gas plant to extract LPG
and ethane, and feasibility studies for the proposed project were completed in
mid-1980. Bank staff participated in all the preparation phases of the pro-
posed project. The project was appraised first in March 1981 and post
appraised in November 1981. Negotiations were held in Bangkok from April 21
to 23, 1982. The Thai delegations were headed by Mr. Kraisri Chatikavanij,
Ministry of Finance and Dr. Tongchat Hongladaromp, Governor of PTT.
A staff appraisal report entitled "Liquified Petroleum Gas Project" (No.
3868-TH), dated May 24, 1982, is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
42.       The main objective of the project is to maximize the benefits from
utilization of natural gas. The gas plant will allow import substitution of
LPG and diesel, will provide LPG for export, thereby improving the nation's
balance of payments, and will provide the basic feedstock for a petrochemical
industry.



- 14 -
Project Description
43.       The project will finance the following three components:
(a) construction of a gas plant (to recover heavier hydrocarbons,
ethane, propane, LPG and natural gasoline), transfer pipelines and
a marine terminal including storage and loading facilities, jetty
and related utilities;
(b) construction of bulk storage and distribution facilities needed
to market the LPG to be produced in the gas plant including storage
and rail tank wagon loading facilities; and
(c)  technical assistance for engineering and supervision of construc-
tion of the abovementioned components, strengthening of PTT's
management, training of PTT's staff in the operation and mainte-
nance of the gas plant and storage and distribution facilities,
and preparation of studies for formulation of energy policies and
of PTT's investment program.
The Gas Plant
44.       The gas separation plant will be constructed at Rayong, on the
Eastern Seaboard, with a capacity to process 350 MMCSFD of natural gas. Gas
from Union Oil's fields will be transported to shore in a 34" submarine
pipeline financed by the Bank under Loan 1773-TH. The current contract with
Union Oil stipulates provision of an average of 250 MMCSFD of natural gas to
PTT. Ratification of a second contract for provision of additional natural
gas to ensure full utilization of the proposed gas plant is a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 7.02 of Loan Agreement). The gas reaching the
shore will be treated at the plant to remove condensate. Feed gas will be
further treated to remove carbon dioxide and the gas would be separated, at
this stage, into methane, ethane, propane and LPG (propane/butane), and
natural gasoline. The latter three products will be pumped in three separate
pipelines to a distribution terminal to be built at Laem Chabang, 60 km north
of Rayong. The Laem Chabang terminal would have storage facilities and a
jetty for exporting propane and LPG in refrigerated tankers. The jetty can
also accommodate small product tankers (5,000 DWT) and barges for domestic,,
products transfer.
Storage and Distribution
45.       The project will finance the construction of five regional bulk
storage installations plus those at Laem Chabang, Rayong and Bangkok to
facilitate marketing of the output from the gas separation plant throughout



- 15 -
Thailand. PTT and private sector marketing companies will provide operational
storage, cylinder filling and transport facilities for distribution of LPG
to private consumers, filling stations for vehicles, and facilities for
industrial users. To promote LPG usage throughout Thailand, all the
marketing firms would be informed that LPG would be available to them on
equal terms to enable the firms to make the necessary plans for investing in
equipment and facilities for this purpose. Notification of firms to this
effect is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement). PTT has agreed that the marketing firms would be advised
by, February 1, 1983, of the precise location of each storage and
distribution facility to enable them to firm up their individual investment
programs (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). PTT plans to discuss
with the major distributors their investment programs to facilitate their
participation in the distribution of LPG produced under the project.
Studies and Technical Assistance
46.       The project would finance engineering services for construction of
the gas plant and storage and distribution facilities, training for the
operation and maintenance of the plant and distribution centers, studies to
help with formulation of energy policies for the oil and gas subsector, and
consultant services to help PTT with management and to carry out
prefeasibility studies.
47.       The four energy policy studies are. (a) an oil and gas reserve study
which would help to assess the hydrocarbon potential of existing reservoirs
and review production levels, the findings of which would be used to plan for
4-r'el.oping gas-based industries in Thailand; (b) a small-scale gas use study
wriich would assess the technical, economic and financial feasibility of
supplying natural gas by pipeline to small-scale users in selected parts of
the Thailand; (c) a liquified natural gas (LNG) study which would assess the
feasibility of exporting LNG, given the likely excess of domestic supply over
demand; and (d) a gas purchasing strategy study which, together with the LNG
study, would help formulate an overall gas purchasing strategy for PTT. In
addition to these policy studies, two prefeasibility studies have been identi-
fied. First, in view of the large quantities of crude oil consumed annually
in Thailand (200,000-210,000 barrels per day), PTT will undertake a crude
import and port facilities study to determine the feasibility of importing
crude in very large carriers to save on transportation costs. Second, PTT
will undertake a white products pipeline transport study to determine
possible alternative means of transport of output from the two refineries in
Laem Chabang, now being shipped by barges and trucks. Terms of reference for
all six studies would be agreed with the Bank.
PTT - The Borrower
48.       PTT was established under the Ministry of Industry in December 1978
by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand Act, and became operational in July
1979. During 1979 it absorbed the Natural Gas Organization of Thailand and



- 16 -
the Oil Fuel Organization. PTT has about 3,000 employees. PTT's Board of
Directors is appointed by the Council of Ministers. The Board comprises a
chairman (the Prime Minister) and 11 other directors - the Governor of PTT,
one each appointed from the Ministries of Defense, Finance, Commerce,
Industry and the Juridicial Council, and five from other sources. PTT's
executive committee is chaired by a minister in the Prime Minister's office,
and is empowered to take decisions on investments, contracts, staffing and
operational matters. In view of the rapid growth in its activities PTT was
reorganized in mid-1981 in order to be able to carry out its activities more
efficiently.
49.       PTT has a competent management, but it needs additional experience
with gas/petroleum operations. Training in natural gas operations, account-
ing and finance was provided under the Natural Gas Development Project
(1773-TH). In order to further strengthen PTT-s overall management and
planning capabilities the project would finance consultants to help PTT to
carry out studies for introducing a management information system and a
manpower planning program.
50.       PTT has three major operational units to handle its business:
(a) gas pipeline; (b) marketing; and (c) refining, all of which, as mentioned
above, were absorbed from other state enterprises and have since been
integrated into the organization. The Natural Gas Operations Unit (ONG) is
responsible for the gas pipeline operations and it would manage under the
proposed project the construction of the gas plant -- the first for PTT. ONG
staff of about 200 performed well during the construction of the gas pipeline
and arrangements have been made for their training in the operations and
maintenance of the gas plant to ensure satisfactory project implementation
(para. 55).
51.       The Marketing (Oil Distribution and Supply) Unit (MKT) is respon-
sible for bulk distribution and storage of LPG and for managing PTT-s LPG
sales as well as oil marketing activities. Although PTT has limited expe-
rience in marketing LPG, MKT has managed this side of PTT's operations
satisfactorily last year with about 50 employees. MKT will add new staff in
line with its expanding marketing responsibilities envisaged under the
project. In order to help MKT to develop a marketing strategy for LPG, the
project would finance pilot marketing demonstrations in semi-urban and rural
areas to determine cost of installation, cylinder sizes, and methods of
payment for the equipment and appliances required for use of LPG. The
marketing studies would be conducted by consultants over a period of three
years. Furthermore, in order to accelerate replacement of diesel-fueled
buses and trucks by LPG-fueled vehicles, the project would finance the
purchase of one LPG-fueled truck and five LPG-fueled metrobuses, including
spare parts, and technical assistance to advise on the safety requirements
and operating and maintenance facilities. This is intended to demonstrate
the benefits of using LPG in the transport sector. Taken together with the
abovementioned marketing studies and on-the-job training from contractors
and consultants (para. 55), MKT is expected to perform satisfactorily in bulk
LPG distribution and storage, as well as in retail marketing.



- 17 -
52.       PTT's third major activity is refining through the Bangchak and
the Thailand Oil Refinery Company (TORC) refineries. The Bangchak refinery
was formerly leased to the Summit Corporation and was repossesed by the
Government early in 1981. Under existing arrangements, the Ministry of
Defense will continue to manage and operate Bangchak with assistance from
consultants until 1985. PTT would continue to provide the financing and
logistics, and marketing support. These arrangements are inadequate as PTT
has no actual management control over Bangchak operations. The Government
and PTT are keen on finding a satisfactory solution to this organization
problem and PTT has agreed to prepare proposals including an action plan for
submission to Government and the Bank by June 30, 1983.  In the interim, the
Government will monitor closely the operations of this refinery and if
necessary it has agreed to ensure that PTT would take actions to resolve any
problems which may arise in accordance with sound business and financial
practices (Section 3.12 of draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.03 (c) of
draft Guarantee Agreement).  TORC reverted to the Government in 1981 and an
expansion program for TORC is under preparation as part of a joint venture
between TORC and PTT. In addition to the above, PTT has a small exploration
department which continues to seek exploration concessions from the
Department of Mineral Resources.
Project Implementation
53.       Gas Plant.  The gas plant, including the distribution pipeline and
export facilities, would be constructed on a lump-sum turnkey basis. Linde
AG. of West Germany was selected in early 1981, with Bank concurrence, to
prepare the technical specifications and tender documents in order that bids
could be so_ght f;. the gas plant prior to finalizing coot estimates.  Phase
II of Linde's contract covers the project management including design
reviews, supervision of construction, training and takeover until commission-
ing. Seven experienced contractors from five countries submitted bids and
all are capable of completing the work on time. Contract award is planned
for August 1982. Acquisition of land for the plant has already been completed
and land provisions have been made for two subsequent gas separation plants.
ONG and MKT will have overall responsibility for the construction of the gas
plant and the storage and distribution, respectively. Mechanical completion
of the gas separation plant is expected in August 1984 with start-up and
commissioning by November 1984.
54.       LPG Storage and Distribution.  PTT will appoint consultants to pre-
pare the conceptual designs for the new bulk storage and distribution centers,
and to help with management and supervision of this component. Appointment of
consultants is expected in early August 1982 and the basic design should be
completed by November 1982. Appointment of these consultants (issuance of
letter of intent) is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(iii) of
draft Loan Agreement). Commencement of the LPG storage and distribution
component operation will coincide with that of the gas plant in late 1984.



- 18 -
55.       In addition, consultants would be appointed to train ONG and MKT
staff in the operational maintenance of the gas plant and storage and
distribution centers for LPG. The consultants would prepare a training
program for this purpose by January 1983 and training is scheduled to begin by
July 1983. Manufacturers of major equipment to be used in the plant will
train maintenance personnel during fabrication and shop testing. Suppliers of
materials and equipment will extend their services beyond the guarantee period
as necessary to complete the on-the-job training.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       Project Cost.  Total project cost including financing is estimated
at about $600 million including $48 million in taxes and $52 million in cap -
talized interest and fees, with a foreign exchange component of about $346
million (58%). About $145 million will be invested by private companies in
the storage and distribution of LPG and $455 million by PTT. The PTT portion,
which includes financing costs (interest during construction and Bank's front-
end fee) of $38 million, has a total foreign exchange component of $268 mil-
lion. The cost estimates are based on the major contract for the gas plant
being awarded in August 1982 and that for the LPG bulk storage and distribu-
tion in mid-1983. Total contingencies amount to $89 million including
physical contingencies for the gas plant at 10% and for LPG storage/distribu-
tion at 15%. Costs for the gas plant are based on fixed price bids now being
evaluated. For other items cost estimates are based on April 1982 prices;
price contingencies are based on inflation of 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for
1984 and 7% for 1985 in respect of foreign costs, and local cost inflation of
12% in 1982/83, 10% in 1984 and 9% in 1985. In respect of the gas plant,
project engineering, management, construction supervision and start-up
technical assistance, costs are estimated at $12 million which is in the
normal range of costs for this type of project and is based on 840 man-months
at $11,900 per month, inclusive of direct overheads, all for expatriate
personnel. The technical assistance component for carrying out the various
studies is estimated to cost a total of $9.5 million, excluding contingen-
cies. This provides for an estimated 600 man-months of expatriate consult-
ants services at an average cost of about $12,000 per man-month including
travel and subsistence, and 400 man-months of local consultants at $500 per
man-month.
57.       Financing Plan.  In view of PTT's lack of significant income gener-
ating operations, the Government's budgetary constraints and the security
provided by PTT's sales agreements, virtually the whole cost of PTT's portion
of the project will be financed from foreign loans. The proposed Bank loan of
$90 million (including front end fee of $1.3 million) would represent 15% of
total project financing requirements (16% net of taxes and duties) and would
be used to finance 25% of the total foreign exchange component, including
$5 million in interest on the Bank loan during construction in order to help
alleviate PTT's short-term liquidity problem. Tentative arrangements have
been made for cofinancing from OECF, $65 million; CDC, $25 million; OPEC
Special Fund, $20 million; export credits, $80 million; and commercial bank



- 19 -
loans, $130 million. The Government would contribute about $35 million to
PTT in the form of equity (Section 2.02(b) of draft Guarantee Agreement).
PTT will bear the foreign exchange risk.
58.       A draft proposal of the financing plan for the gas plant has been
discussed with the prospective lenders; while only the OECF funds have so far
been committed, no difficulty is expected in obtaining the additional financ-
ing in a timely manner. All seven prequalified bidders for construction of
the gas plant are from countries with strong export credit facilities and they
have confirmed the availability of $80 million in export credits. The effec-
tiveness of the OECF and CDC loans, the export credits, and the first year's
requirements for commercial bank loans ($60 million) are conditions of effec-
tiveness of the Bank loan (Section 7.01(i) and (v) of draft Loan Agreement).
Assurances have been obtained that the OPEC Fund loan and the remaining
commercial bank financing would be obtained in accordance with a timetable
consistent with PTT's need for these funds (Section 3.13 of draft Loan
Agreement).
PTT's Financial Position - Present Situation
59.       During FY81 PTT suffered an estimated net loss of $43 million.  The
major problem in FY81 was liquidity, due primarily to delayed payments by EGAT
and the Government's Oil Stabilization Fund. This in turn led to heavy
borrowing by PTT and high interest expenses, which turned an operating profit
into a net financial loss. EGAT has now begun to make timely payments to PTT
for fuel oil supplies.
60.       The Government has appointed a high level subcommittee to look
for a way to put PTT back on a sound financial footing. Following intensive
deliberation, the subcommittee recommended - and the Cabinet has approved -
a two-pronged action plan: (a) authorizing PTT to borrow $200 million, on
behalf of the Government, of which it would retain $125 million overdue from
the Oil Stabilization Fund, and keep $75 million in equity; and (b) reducing
the oil inventory of MKT and Bangchak refinery through consolidation of
their stocks. PTT has negotiated a loan of $200 million with a group of
banks headed by Citibank and it expects to sign the loan agreement in May
1982. Receipt by PTT of these funds is a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 7.01(iv) of draft Loan Agreement). The Government has agreed to
these financing arrangements. Also, assurances were obtained to allow PTT
to retain 90% of its net income in order to build up PTT's equity base to
cushion itself against unexpected losses, subject to a maximum retention of
30% of its future capital investment needs (Section 2.03(a) and (b) of draft
Guarantee Agreement).
The Financial Outlook
61.       PTT's overall profitability is expected to improve during 1983.
The quantity of gas passing through the natural gas pipeline will increase
as Union Oil brings the gas fields into full production. The key to ONG



- 20 -
profitability and satisfactory cash generation is a sufficient margin
between the price at which PIT purchases the gas and that at which it sells
the gas to EGAT and Siam Cement. Satisfactory gas sales contracts have been
concluded with both customers, providing suitable margins and appropriate
safety features whereby obligations in the purchase contract are passed on
to the customers. The Bank has reviewed the contracts and finds them
acceptable. Both contracts are priced to reflect cost of supply plus a
suitable profit margin. The contracts include an escalation provision with
linkages both to cost increases and to the Singapore fuel oil price.
Pricing aspects of these contracts are, however, short-term compared with the
20 year approximate duration of the Union supply contract. The Government
has agreed to require PTT/EGAT to renew the pricing terms of their contract
on terms comparable to the one now in effect not later than October 1, 1984
(Section 3.02(a) and (b) of draft Guarantee Agreement). ONG will continue
to generate sound and increasing profits tor PTT throughout the decade and
beyond provided careful interrelationshLps are maintained between contract
terms for gas purchase and sale, including LPG. The gas plant is projected
to yield a tinancial rate of return of 30% in real terms. The operating
ratio of ONG is forecast to be about 0.8, reflecting the composite operating
efficiency of gas pipelines and gas plants. ONG's annual return on revalued
net fixed assets is expected to increase from 14% in FY82 to about 19% in
FY90, depending on the timing of the next major gas pipeline.
62.       As a result of the actions mentioned (para. 60), PTT will be able
to reduce the overall level of its short-term borrowing. Long-term debt
will be restricted through an agreement whereby no long-term debt will be
incurred unless debt service coverage is at least 1.2 times from FY82 and
1.5 times from FY85. Further strengthening of PTT would be achieved through
equity injection, refinancing of short-term debt leading to a current ratio
of not less than 1.0 and a total liabilities to equity ratio of at most
90/10 for FY83 and FY84; 85/15 for FY85 and FY86; and 70/3U after FY86, and
efficent allocation of surplus funds among PTT-s units. Assurances
regarding these financial performance ratios have been obtained (Sections
5.04, 5.05. 5.06 and 5.08 of draft Loan Agreement). As a consequence of these
undertakings, minor amendments will be made in Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the
previous Loan Agreement (No. 1773-TH) to make them consistent with the corre-
sponding sections in the proposed loan (Section 5.09 of dratt Loan Agreement).
Procurement
63.       The gas plant contract includes tacilities for gas treating, ethane
and heavier hydrocarbon recovery, transfer pipelines and an export terminal.
The detailed engineering, equipment and materials and the construction of the
plant will be done through a single lump-sum turnkey contract to ensure timely
implementation. The Bank would review the proposed gas plant contract and the
relevant documents. One or more turnkey contracts would be let for
engineering, procurement, and construction and installation of (a) the bulk
storage and related facilities; and (b) storage and rail tank wagon loading
facilities.
64.       All works and goods financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan
will be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines, except for local procurement of miscellaneous equipment



- 21 -
and supplies up to a limit of $2.0 million. PTT will furnish the Bank with
all the documents required prior to the application for withdrawal of funds to
verify their consistency with Bank guidelines.  Consulting and training
services would be engaged in accordance with the Bank guidelines for use of
consultants.
Disbursements
65.       Disbursement trom the Bank loan would be made as follows:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures tor (i) engineering and project management services,
(ii) initial payments for the construction of the gas separation plant and the
remaining payments under the gas plant contract once export credits and OECF
funds have been exhausted, (iii) the contract(s) for construction of PTT's LPG
storage and distribution facilities; and (iv) training; (b) 100% of the cost
of studies and technical assistance not financed from other sources; (c) 100%
of foreign costs, 100% ot ex-factory costs or 7J% of total costs (representing
the estimated foreign exchange component) of miscellaneous equipment and
materials; (d) amount due against interest and other charges on the loan
accrued on or before July 31, 1984; and (e) the front-end fee. Disbursements
by the Bank are expected to be completed by December 31, 1986. The employment
of consultants in early 1981 was agreed in order to obtain firm project cost
estimates and to avoid delay in completion of the project. It is proposed
that the payments made for consultancy services after March 1, 1981, not
exceeding $4.0 million, be retroactively financed from the loan (Schedule 1,
para. 4 of draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits
66.       The primary benefits of the project would come from import substi-
tution and exports of LPG and from development of the basic feedstock tor the
petrochemical industry. Thailandcs foreign exchange position will be enhanced
and the benefits of the gas will become more widely available. The proposed
project will enable Thailand to extract from the gas stream more valuable
products such as ethane, propane and butane, the latter two forming LPG. The
third stage for Thailand to obtain the benefits of natural gas will be the
development of the petrochemical complexes.
67.       LPG produced trom the gas plant will cost less than LPG imports
from the Arabian Gulf even at the depressed prices prevailing in the market at
the moment. Apart from LPG import substitution, the LPG will replace diesel
and gasoline and will also benefit the rural population by providing an
alternative to wood and charcoal. The economic rate of return of the project
is estimated at 29% and is not very sensitive to most of the major variables.
The net present value of the project is $4U9 million at 12% discount rate,
yielding an average annual saving of $58 million. The pay-back period on a
discounted basis is five years, which is satisfactory.
68.       Risks.  The major physical risks associated with the project are
the possibilities of a break in the offshore pipeline, and damage to the key
offshore platform. The former could be repaired within a fairly short



- 22 -
perioa but the latter would be a serious blow until the second natural gas
contract comes onstream in mid 1985. The most important economic risk is
that there may be a further decline in world prices for LPG, which would make
the proposed investment in the gas plant less attractive. This is not
expected to happen as present LPG prices are already unusually low. The risk
to the economic justification of the plant would disappear after 1990 as
Thailand would have built up a substantial gas surplus which would
consequently reduce the economic value of Thailand's natural gas for other
uses.
69.       Ecology and Safety.  The proposed project does not pose signifi-
cant ecological problems. Flue gases from boilers and flare stacks are free
of sulphur and the only undesirable effluent is carbon dioxide which is dis-
posed of into the atmosphere in controlled volumes and at an altitude which
allows the concentration at ground level to be controlled within acceptable
limits. Furthermore, the project will improve the air quality, particularly
in Bangkok, where the use of LPG instead of gasoline and diesel will bring a
substantial improvement. In the up-country areas use of LPG instead of fuel
wood will reduce deforestation.
70.       As in many industrial plants, gas processing is potentially
hazardous and strict rules and regulations will be implemented to avoid undue
risks. The worldwide safety record is good and no particular danger is
foreseen. PTT personnel will be trained to ensure that they are aware of all
possible risk and dangers. A supervisory control system will monitor
operation conditions and provide adequate advance warning in case of problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Petroleum
Authority of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1982



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                       Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               -  ItOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TUTAL             514.0                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      178.1               1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US§)                   100.0        210.0      590.0                1136.1                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        62.5        204.3     376.3                 1150.6                    1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27229.0        36499.0   45475.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5           13.2       14.2                  40.8                      64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         68.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATIuN DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         53.0         71.0      88.5                  373.1                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    210.3          247.5      250.0                2382.8                      94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.7         46.2       42.4                  39.8                      40.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.6         50.8      54.5                   56.7                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          3.0       3.1                    3.5                       4.0
POPULATION GRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                2.6          2.9        2.4                   2.3                       2.4
URBAN                                4.4          3.5        3.2                   3.8                       3.7
LRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.0         39.5       30.9                  29.7                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       15.8         11.3        7.9                   7.5                       8.4
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          2.9        2.1                   1.9                       2.3
FAMILY PLANN ING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        202.9Lk   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            7.6       39.0                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            92.0        100.0     124.0                  123.7                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.0        103.0     105.0                  112.6                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         50.0      49.0                   62.5                      65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         10.0         15.0       14.0                  19.7                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       15.6          9.6        5.9                   4.8                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8           57.1       62.0                  64.0                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSANU)                               ..         86.0/d    68.0                   50.2                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                 ..         17.0       22.0                  45.9                      65.7
URBAN                                 ..         60.0      49.0                   68.0                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..         10.0       12.0                  34.4                      43.9
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         17.0       40.0                  53.4                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..         65.0      58.0                   71.0                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..          8.0       36.0                  42.4                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            8003.8       8462.6    8154.1                 4428.7                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       4900.0       7058.4    3542.0                 2229.7                    1288.2
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1351.0/e      897.8      814.2                 588.5                     471.2
URBAN                                 ..        176.3     519.5                  579.6                     558.0
RURAL                                 ..      13910.7    1268.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         31.0       44.8                  36.7
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5/e        5.8        5.5
URBAN                                5.3/e        5.8        5.5
RURAL                                5.6Ie        5.8        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        2.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..        2.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         18.9
URBAN                                 ..         86.1         ..
RURAL                                 ..          9.0         ..                    ..



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                     Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE aGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-t
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INcoMI            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA i CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0         81.0      82.0                    99.8                    101.7
MALE                  88.0        85.0       85.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE                79.0        77.0       78.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 13.0         17.0      28.0                   53.5                      35.3
MALE                  16.0        20.0       29.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                10.0        14.0       27.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    19.0          24.0       17.0                   21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         22.0      28.0                    34.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          20.0         16.0      27.0                   31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         78.6       84.0                   86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          5.1       6.4                    12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         76.0     131.0                   174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.2          6.6       17.6                   50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0         20.5         ..                  106. 8                    62. 8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1.7                    4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13958.0       17010.0   21547.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3         47.3      46.5                    37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.7         79.9      76.6                    50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4          6.0       8.7                   21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6      47.4                    40.2                     31.8
MALE                                 52.7         49.3       50.9                   49.S                     49.0
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9      43.9                     7                       14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1        1.0                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/f        23.8/R    14.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.971        49. 77&    42.27*h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/f         6.1/S     7.67i*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/f        15.9/g    19.17i.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     159.0                  248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..     106.0 li                193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATEU RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     115.0 L                249.8                     513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0 /. 234.3                                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      15.0                    21.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      34.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Government program only;  /d 1964-65;  /e 1962;  /f 1962-63;  /g 1968;  /h Preliminary data for 1975-76;
due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional data
overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
/i   Estimates for 1977.
May, 1981



CC                                                                                                                                                                                    C-       CC-       ICR-  CCII   BI ICI II ICI-
.      .-                                                                                                              C-. .C-. . .'-.-C    C .
C-  C  C-  C-  C-  C-                                                                   CC-C-C-                            I                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1I1,I
C   C-  C         C   C                                                                             CCCCC-C-C-C-C~~~~~~~~C.CC-CC-.. .C..                                                        IC-
C-CCCC-CC--CC-CCC-~CC-   -       -                  CCCC- --C-C                                              '      -  C       C-C-C    C-C  CC-    CCC-                                           CC-C    -CC          C-C-C-
C                                                                                II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 
IC-C CC-C-C-C,--  -C-CC-C-CC---C  CCCC--CCCCCC  IC-H 'CC-C-CC-   C-   CCBCC-C  CCCC-CC    CO-CCCC CCCC-CCC-C-' CH                                    CCC-C- CC-
C-  C-CC-ICC                                                              C-C-C-C-C--  C-'AC                                                                                         CK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
C-CC  ICCCC-C  CCC HCCCCC    CCC-CCC  CCC C   CCC-   CC-C-CCCCCCCCCC-HC-HCHC- -CC    HCCCCHC              C   C'CCC       C-CCH    C       CC-      C--C-   C   C-   C-          CC-CCC'C ACI
[C[   .                                                 CC'~~~~~I. 
BCC CC--CCCC-CC-  C    -CC        CCC-    -C--CC             CC-C         CC-CCC   C-CC-C-C-CC-C-CC- C.C                                      -C'IC-C.CCC CCCC  C                          CHC - CC    C               C-O        C      C     C       CC-CSC
C   H  C   '-C CC-C-C-C-C-C   CHCCC-C-C-    C-CCC    C-    CC-CC H  ICCCC-CCC-C    C-C-  I  -CC  C-CC  CC--C-ClC-CCC    C C-C-C-H             CCC   C-   -        ~        CC0C0.          CC
Bg'  CHCCC 'B ~ C  CCC-C  C- C--H   C CC-CCC                 C        I   C   CCC' C--C--C'    C-H  -CC                          -    -CC-C-          -CCC          CC                         CCC        C-C        CCCC-          CC-
C-CC  C-C    CCC-  C-C-CC-C  -C-CCC-CC-C-  C CC-C-CC-C-C-CC- C-C-C--C-       CC-C-CC-C--C---HCC-C-'CCC-C-                               C-C-CCC-C-C-R--    C-HCS-1C-CE
C-CC-BC-CC  C'CBC-C-CCCC  C -  CCC C-C  CC-C-CC-C-CC-HB  -'C-C-C-  CII   C-C-  I- IC-C-C-CCCCC  C- C-C-C                 CC-C-H C-  CCCH           C      IC         C-C-    C       CC-C    HCCHC             BQ
C-CC-C-C-CC   CCC- CCCCCCC C-C-  C-CC-CC-CC "C    CC   -'C  CCC-   C-    C   C  CCC-C-CCC   B   CCCC-C  C-C-CC-CC-I    CC  CC  C-C-C   C-CC- C CCCC-C-C-C   C-C-  CCC-  I   C   CC-    CCCCC-C    B   C
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                                 -    CCC
CCCC-  -CBC-C  C  CC  -CHC  C-C-C-C-C-C-- CC   C   C C-C-CC C       CC-C- HC  CCC-C  CCCC-CC--CC-CC H-C-C-    C-    CHCHC-CCC                  CC-C       C-H      C          C     C CC'       CCC        CC  C-



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population        46,sno (mid-198O, thousands)
GNP per Canita   US$670 (19t0)
TIIAILANO - RCONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million fIsi at             Average annual Increase (%)                      Share of GDP at market prices (X)
current prices)                  (at constant prtces)                                (at current prices)
Indicator                        198n /a       19hO-74  1970-7   1475-80  1980-R5/b  1985-90/b   1960              1970         1975         1980/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic Product        12,865            8.4       6.3       7.7        6.8         7.3     100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriculture                  8,572            5.5       5.3      3.5        4.2         3.8       39.8         28.3         31.5          26.2
Industry                     7,499           11.5       7.8     11.7         8.6        9.0       18.7         25.3         24.8          27.5
Services                    13,326            9.0       7.1      7.8        7.5         8.3       41.5         46.4         43.7         46.3
Consumption                   25,716            7.3       7.0      7.7        4.9          6.2      85.7          78.7         79.3         77.6
Gross investment               9,166           15.8       3.8       8.9        7.0        6.7        15.7         26.2         25.4         27.9
Exports of GNFS                8,211           10.5       3.6      14.1        9.9        9.1       17.4          16.7         19.1         25.0
Imports of GNFS               10,228           13.9       3.7      10.5        4.9         5.6      18.9          21.5         23.7         31.1
Gross national savings         6,995           13.7       4.1       6.8        9.9         8.4      14.1          21.5         20.7         20.7
Composition of merchandise trade (X)
(at current prices)
1060   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  1990/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             6,657           5.5       9.0      14.7       10.2         9.3    10n.0  loo.n  100.n  l10.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                       , 785           4.2       6.6     10.8        6.1         5.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   6n.2    46.6    37.4
Manufactures                 2,872           29.2      20.9     25.n        14.6        12.7      2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53.4    62.6
Merchandise imports             8,987          11.5       3.3      10.1        5.2         6.0    lon.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   ino.o   100.0
Food                           303            4.3     -2.7      11.2         5.0        6.n       9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4        3.2     3.1
Petroleum                    2,824           11.8       5.0      8.6       -1.0         3.4      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    26.9    26.5
Machinery & equipment        2,110           16.1       5.9      4.4        7.8         7.0      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    25.2    25.4
Others                       1,750           10.1       1.0     IR.7         7.8        7.0      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    44.7    45.0
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                        100.0      103.3      112.1      121.8      135.0      154.0
Exchange rate                                        20.4       20.4       20.4       2n.3       2n.3       20.5
Export price index                                  100.0       97.3       49.4      107.4      128.3      151.0
Import price index                                  100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      176.0
Terms of trade index                                100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.0
As X of GOP
1960           1970           1975           1980/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                       13 .6          13.q           13.2           14.5
Current expenditures                                   10.6           12.6           11.7            14.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                             +3.0           +1.2           +1.5           +0.4
Capital expenditure                                     4.3            5.8            3.4            3.9
Foreign financing                                       n.2            0.05           n.06           0.2
1960-70         1970-75         1975-R0          1980-85/b         t985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
CNP growth rate (2)                           8.4             6.2              6.9             6.7                7.5
GNP ner capita growth rate (2)                5.2             3.4              4.4             4.4                5.4
ICOR                                          2.8             4.0              3.4             4.1               3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.29            0.23             0.21            0.34               n.3
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6              1.3             0.64               n.77
/a Preliminary.
/b Projected.
/c Central government only.
December 14, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population      :  46,500 (mid-1980, thousands)
GNP per Capita:  US$670 (1980)                                                         - 28 -
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actoal                                                             Projected
Indicator                          1970    1975      1976     1977    1978    1979   198n/d   1981    Iq82           1993    1984    1985        1986    1987      1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
EIports of goods and nonfactor
services                                  1,108   2,796   3,4q9    4,0)29   4,976   6,494   8,211   9,061  10,562  12,7R3  15,236  18,251  21,794  2S,884  51,414
Of whIch:  Merchandise f.o.b.               686   2,178   2,959   3,456   4,041    5,233   6,697   7,333   8,573   10,397   12,491   14,961  17,832  71,221  42,574
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                                 -1,430  -3,497  -3,892  -5,066  -5,905  -9,170 -15,228 -15,022 -12,319 -14,384 -16,833 -19,706 -23,115 -27,186 -52,147
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            -1,148  -2,839  -3,146  -4,244  -4,909  -6,822  -8,987  -9,704 -In,929  -12, 909 -15,048 -17,679 -20,808 -24,557 -47,911
Net factor income free abroad                   23        4      -63      -97     -261     -477     -703     -742     -932  -1,152  -1,435  -1,773  -2,183  -2,644   -5,122
Net transfers                                   49       S1       24       40       41       61      353      142      347       373      402      423      467      505      697
Current account balance                      -250    -606       -441  -1,094  -1,149  -2,092  -2,367  -2,359  -2,343  -2,180  -2,630  -2,795  -3,237  -3,443  -5,359
Private direct investment                       43       86       80      106       Si       53       55       60        65       70       75       80       90      100      140
MLT loans (net)                                 32      Ill      198      205      644      995   2,093    1,732    1,q16   2,273   2,515    2,005    3,238   3,412   4,019
Official                                     21        93      109      212      285      419      460      639      808      919      955   1,516   1,0(91    1,169    1,599
Private Ia                                    10       19       89       -7      360      557   1,633   1,093    1,108   1,354    1,560   1,989   2,157    2,243   3,321
Other capital /h                                93      356      242      792      490   1,036       223      867       762      437      440      160      159      381      799
Change in reserves                              82       52      -79       -9      -36        8         -     300      400       400      400      450      450      45n      500
International reserves                         006   2,007   2,113   2,208   2,558   3,102   3,026    3,526   3,929   4,326   4,726    5,176   5,626   6,076    6,076
Reserves as months imports                       8        7        7        5        5        5         4        4        4        4        3        3        3         3        2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Dishursements
Concessional loans                           11       43        52       90      153      233      222      311      412      475      466      488       518      558      960
flAC                                       11       40       45        53       84      167      158      269      340      177      359      377      405       429      589
IDA                                         -        3        7        9         5        4        4        9       14       18       19       15        10        5        0
Other                                       -        -        -        19       68       62       60       34       55       80       88       84       103      112      371
Noecoacessiosal loans                       198      493       556      558   1,160   1,792   2,395   1,930   2,000   2,S3   3,0263   3,986   4,563   5,229    9,373
Official esport credits                     7        -        -       54        44      127      169      ISO      138       96       89       88       95       113      195
I3RD                                       19       41       43       65      103      139       143      250      346      442      524      584      645      718      970
Other meltilateral                          2       37       46       33       46        36       93       77      107      149      486      225      265       302     470
Private publicly guaranteed                17       29      io0       57      396      691       712      597      455      435      462      449      440      500       500
Private non-garanteed                     143      3R6      367      349      571      799   1,288        856      954   1,591   2,008   2,640   3,119   3,596   6,129
Total gross dish-rsements                   19q      536      659       638   1,113   2,025   2,617   2,241   2,410   3,160   3,735   4,474    5,091    5,797   5,231
External Debt (fised-term)
Public debt outstand;ng &
disbursed                                   328      622      923   1,n94   1,816   2,81q   4,063   4,926   6,072   7,216   9,288   9,250  10,425  11,599    na.
Official                                  291      549      666      917   1,275   1,638   2,095   2,717   3,545   4,464   5,419   6,435   7,515    8,685  14,440
Private                                    37       68      156      151      520   1,064   1,694   2,199   2,527   2,792   2,869   2,915   2,910   2,Q14    na.
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstonding and disbursed                 382      730      795      980      939   1,243   1,922   2,845   3,615   4,741   6,187   8,229  10,292  12,530    ma.
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                 710   1,352   1,613   1,974   2,755   4,062    5,985   7,771   9,687  11,959  14,475  17,479  20,717  24,129  41,571
Undisbursed debt                            118      666      840   1,401    1,902   2,358   3,204    3,066   3,386    3,734   4,087    4,514    5,021   5,459    7,710
Debt Service
Total service payments                      162      378       399      443      708      954   1,250   1,149   1,325    1,913   2,480   3,013   3,733   4,647    9,614
Interest                                   16       35       44      126       198     325      461       640      831   1,019    1,260   1,544    1,890   2,272   4,200
Paymento as 0 emnorts of goods and    14.6    13.5    11.4   I.0               14.2    14.7    15.2    12.7    12.5    15.0    16.3    16.5    17.1    17.9    16.8
noofactor services
Average interest rate on ne- loans
(2) /c                                        6-.8     7.5       7.8      7.0      6.7      7.3    11.5    10.5    10.7    11.3         11.6    11.9    12.1        12.3    12.4
Official                                    6.P      7.4      7.7       6.2      5.3      5.3        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Private                                     6.0      8.5       9.1      9.2      9.9      9.6        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -
Average maturity of new loans
(Years) /c                                   1R.9    22.9    17.4    14.8    17.3    17.1    14.1    15.6    15.9    14.8    14.2    13.7    13.5    13.1    12.9
Official 9.4                                       24.2    20.7    19.         22.3    22.6         -        -        -
Private                                    11.2      7.0      7.3       8.1      9.4     10.6        -        -        -
Bank Group Exposure ('8)
IBRD DOS/total DOD                         22.6    20.0    18.5    17.5    15.9    13.7    11.1
IBRD disbursementsitotal gro.s
disbursements                             9.5      7.7      7.1    10.2       7.9      6.9       5.5
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                                  11.1      9.5      9.0    10.0       7.9      7.0      6.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                             -      0.3      0.7       I.0      0.9      0.7      0.5
IDA disbursements/total gross
disbursements                               -      0.5      1.1      1.4      0.4      0.2       0.2
IDA debt service/total deht
service                                     -      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
As " of debt outstanding
at end of 1979
Maturity structure of debt outstandiog
0rincipal due within 5 years                                                                   28.4
Priscipal due within 10 years                                                                 61.3
Interest strct-rn of debt oatstandina
Interest doe within first year                                                                  4.6
Ia  DUe to chenge in c]assification, projected data for  private MLT loans'  include some of the category "other capital".
/b  "Other capital" includes net use of IMF finds and met flow of short-term capital.
Ic Historical data dons not inclade ma-guaranteed private debt.
/d Preliminary.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty three loans and three credits fully disbursed                 639.20  31.74         -
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   39.51
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    3.01
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    0.54
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -    4.83
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -    8.29
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    0.03
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -    3.10
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   18.53
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -    6.90
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     PoDulation         -   33.10/a 16.00
i519   1978   Kingdom ot Thailand                     Highways      110.00        -   26.03
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -    4.79
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    6.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   80.75
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   14.21
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban Trans.  16.00         -   12.67
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -    9.10
1690   1979   Electricity. Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   43.79
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   35.00   29.00
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture        -   25.00   21.23
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Extension 40.00         -   34.13
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   42.17
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                  Natural Gas
Thailand                               Pipeline   107.00/b       -   10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    80.00         -   73.59
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                     Ag. Credit    19.00         -   12.41



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -         45.08
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                    Water Supply        40.00    -         39.71
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -         28.46
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity          Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification       75.00    -         72.57
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -          52.62
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports               47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research        30.00    -         29.95
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash Engineering  8.90    -           7.73
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.
of Thailand                 Industry             30.00    -         10.18
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power               100.00    -        100.00
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation          57.00    -         56.50
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Provincial Roads   35.00    -          34.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c          Tree crops         142.00    -        142.00
2097     1982   Kingdom of Thailand T7          Structural
adjustment       150.00    -        150.00
Total                                                        2,557.90  124.84  1,337.26
of which has been repaid                                     279.36    2.85
Total now outstanding                                        2,278.54  121.99
Amount sold /d                       68.63
of which has been repaid           50.88                      17.75
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,968.78  121.99
Total undisbursed                                            1,271.03   66.23
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
T   Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
Tc  Not yet effective.
/d  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30       -       0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                         Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -      2.00
1979/ Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers            4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials          63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                            100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          65.71    2.71       68.42
Net held by the Corporation                         35.27    6.90      42.17
Total undisbursed                                   25.00    -         25.00



-32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1982)
Cred-L No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project's success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, contracting and
budgeting. IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an
effort to help resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is almost complete. Rehabilitation and on-
farm development works for Part A of the project on about 13,000 ha were
completed in 1981 bringing the total area developed to 48,000 ha, compared
to 51,000 in the appraisal schedule. Under Part B, rehabilitation works
are progressing satisfactorily. Under Part C, 65 km of service roads are
being constructed. All physical works are expected to be completed in 1982
in accordance with the appraisal schedule. Under Part D, a feasibility
study for about 175,000 ha in the Stage II area of Maeklong was completed in
March 1980 and a study for a possible Third Stage Chao Phya Irrigation
Improvement Project was completed in December 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 33 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now proceeding smoothly. Construction of main and secondary
canals is progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind
schedule. Two new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project
area, and work on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in the
appointment of consultants. Satisfactory progress is now being made in
procuring equipment and vehicles. Canal rehabilitation work is progressing
satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to delays in
design work.
Loan No. 2022-TH Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointe', in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been compleLtd for 10,OOu na, anid b km of main and lateral canals have
been constructed. A contract for construction of about 60 km of main and
lateral canals is due to be awarded in 1982. Good progress is being made
in developing a Plan of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation
Department.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of Februar} 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction of almost 600 km of village access roads is complete
and is under way on the remaining 700 km. The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has provided 2,600 freshwater wells. The agricultural extension component
was completed in 1978 and subsumed into the National Extension Project (Loan
1393). The upland crops component is being satisfactorily completed and
research work is being continued by the National Agricultural Research
Project (Loan 1922). The village electrification component has been
completed with electrification of about 475 villages. The land settlement
component is essentially complete; cash incomes of pilot cooperating farmers
were roughly doubled in the project period, and settlement cooperative
placed on a sound footing.



- 34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project continues to make fairly good progress particularly
with legume seed production, artificial insemination and private pasture
development. However, disbursement remains behind schedule and the original
loan closing date of June 30, 1981 was extended by 12 months to June 30,
1982.  The Department of Livestock Development is developing plans for
transferring project activities into the work programs of the regular divi-
sions of the Department, and these transfers should be completed before
June 30, 1982 as part of a departmental reorganization plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. The r.planting rate over
the project period has been slower than that envisioned at appraisal, but for
1981 about 65,000 ha were replanted - 30% above the target of 50,000 ha.
Management and the general level of staff efficiency at the Office of the
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund is satisfactory. Bank disbursements for the
project are expected to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Delays in staff recruitment experienced in the early days of the
project have now been overcome and the "T and V" system is operating
reasonably satisfactorily. Vehicles, including motorbikes for village-level
extension workers, remain in short supply. Shortages of audio-visual aids
and counterpart funds for day-to-day operations are also adversely affecting
progress. Subject matter specialist training is being given priority atten-
tion. Civil works construction is nearing completion and disbursement has
improved considerably in recent months.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a reasonable start in seven
provinces and disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject
matter specialist training is being given priority attention, as also is the
relevance of the information being disseminated to farmers through the "T and
V" system.



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending in the North and Northeast, to be financed under the project, is
progressing well. Implementation of works under the specified lending
component, however, has been slow. The most critical factor affecting the
financial viability of BAAC is the interest rate levels for agriculture.
Satisfactory progress has been made by the Cooperative Promotion Department
and the Cooperative Auditing Department in their training activities and in
the construction of regional and provincial staff housing.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective in March 1981, but a budget deficiency
in the first six months, which coincided with the last six months of the
Government fiscal year, seriously affected project implementation, which was
negligible, although much useful preliminary planning was accomplished. The
recent approval of a project budget for FY82 and the pending approval by
Cabinet of the reorganization plan for the Department of Agriculture should
enable implementation to proceed satisfactorily in the latter part of FY82
after allowing for a delay of about nine months from the appraisal report
schedule.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 million Loan of
January 29, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed by the original Closing Date. All civil work contracts have
been awarded and nearly completed. Equipment and furniture is under
procurement. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training
programs are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the
Ministry of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date:  October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Acquisitions of
sites and design work has been completed. Construction of workshops
included in phase one has been completed, and equipment contracts have been



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
awarded. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respecti ely. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula
are beinL developed. Technical assistance agencies have been contracted and
staff training programs are being conducted as scheduled. The studies under
the project are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Under new management, the project is moving ahead smoothly and
rapidly, and disbursements have improved considerably over the past year.
Project implementation is now running, on the average, about 12 months
behind the appraisal schedule. Six of the ten national level training
facilities have been completed. Of the 430 rural health facilities, 374
have been completed, 33 are under construction and 23 had to be deleted.
The final round of procurement of equipment and furniture is currently
underway. Most training, information/education/communication, and
population-related research and evaluation activities have been completed on
schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition Activity has been successfully
launched and Government is about to approve the use of most of the remaining
funds for Innovative Activities for testing new ideas in continuing
education and the role of mass communication in health education are about
to be approved by the Government.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is about eighteen months behind schedule
because of difficulties encountered with the largest contract.  The National
Housing Authority (NHA) has terminated the existing contract and steps are
underway to hire a new contractor to complete the work. Good progress,
however, has been made on the various policy concepts on which the project
is based, and NHA's financial management has been strengthened through
technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1982
There has been a significant improvement in all aspects of the
project. While no action seems probable on area road pricing, progress has
been made in implementation of the bus lane system, parking
restrictions/charges, experimentation of staggered work hour system and
noise abatement. Construction is now underway on several traffic
improvement schemes. Since November 1981, contracts worth $6.3 million have
been awarded; further contracts for $10.3 million equivalent are to be
awarded in the next 3-6 months.



- 37 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
This project expands the National Housing Authority (NHA) programs
initiated in Bangkok under the Bangkok Sites and Services and Slum
Improvement Project (Loan 1556-TH) and extends the sites and services
program to five regional cities. Design and procurement are proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction has commenced in Bangkok and the regional
cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Engineering consultants were appointed in January 1982, about one
year later than originally expected due to the Borrower's inexperience in
hiring outside consultants. A UNDP-financed adviser has been appointed
to assist the borrower in these and related matters.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule. The three units of
turbine generators are operating satisfactorily. Good progress is being
made under the transmission line and substation components associated with
tha pr>nirt.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 3,480 villages, out of which 2,100
villages have already been electrified. The load promotion program started
in April 1981. Disbursements have accelerated and are very close to initial
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690  Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is about two months behind schedule because of poor
soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field works are now
proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up
with the original schedule. The first unit is targeted for commissioning in
July 1983, as scheduled.



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan io. 1-770 Kh-c Laem H:droelectric Project; $80 Million loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date:  September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule because of unexpec.-
edly poor rock foundation, but works are now underway satisfactorily.
Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construction of the
resettlement program started at all five sites.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1986
Construction started in 262 villages for the first nine provinces.
Seventeen villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2000-TH Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Bids for the diversion tunnel will be issued in July 1982, and
main civil works in May 1983 for the Chiew Larn Hydroelectric component of
the project.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Good progress was made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule.  The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works should be completed by mid-1982.
The project is being completed on schedule and below the original cost
estimate.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily. However,
the borrower, in its last progress report dated January 1982, indicated
little progress in civil works.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is almost fully disbursed. Only $29,000 remain against
an outstanding letter of credit.



- 39 -                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well. By the end of March 31, 1982, an
amount of $23.2 million has been committed and $19.8 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947-TH Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of
March 4, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981:
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan became effective on December 29, 1981 and is proceeding
well.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All construction contracts have been awarded and work is over 80%
completed. However, for three of the roads the bidding and awards were
delayed about 10 months to synchronize with bidding and award of contracts in
March 1979 on a link road financed wholly by the Government. Completion of
the project may thus be delayed about twelve months. The maintenance equip-
ment has been procured and with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with the road maintenance program is improving. The studies are
nearing completion. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) has been completed and is underway on
roads for future projects.
Loan No. 2035-TH Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of
August 13, 1981; Effective Date:  December 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1985
Contracts have been awarded on 19 roads, and are expected to be
awarded shortly on the remaining four. Proposals have been obtained for a
Transport Study.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule. Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the -
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about



-40 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1983 is being
considered. Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability
of passenger and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial
position of SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff
increases for passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because
of a subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and the contractor is in the process of mobilizing.
Consultants have been appointed for design and construction supervision of
the various project components and work is underway. Acquisition of land for
port sites is still incomplete.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
.Implementation of project components concerned with the Port of
Bangkok are progressing satisfactorily with construction work underway and
selection of consultants to provide technical assistance to the Port
Authority of Thailand in process. Work at the Port of Sattahip is temporarily
in abeyance pending completion of the Master Plan ReDort row bei"- prepareA
'.y  1msu::z  far.anced throuri1 ii   Cd  aiu kAus ralia;.  The appointment of
consultants for the design of the Bang Su Container Freigl- Terminal has been
long delayed. With Bank concurrence, consultants were selected and contract
negotiations completed by the State Railway of Thailand but approval from
higher authority is not yet forthcoming, causing serious delays in the
implementation of this project component.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, with TOT awarding contracts for most of
the Bank financed items. The financial condition of the borrower continues to
be satisfactory.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
PETROLEUM LIQUIFIED GAS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:    2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project                  :    PTT & Consultants
(c)  First presentation to the Bank                     :    July 1980
(d)  Date of Departure of the Appraisal Mission         :   November 5, 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations                              April 23, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                      :    August 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:  None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government has agreed to:
(i) provide the gas pricing study to the Bank for comment by
March 31, 1983, and implement promptly those recommendations
acceptable to Government, PTT and the Bank (para. 34);
(ii) cause PTT to find a satisfactory solution should it experi-
ence losses from the Bangchak refinery (para. 52);
(iii)  provide $35 million to PTT for project costs in the form of
equity (para. 57);
(iv) provide PTT $200 million and permit it to retain 90% of its
net income subject to a maximum retention of 30% of its
future capital investment needs (para. 60); and
(v) require PTT/EGAT to renew the gas contract not later than
October 1, 1984 (para. 61).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) PTT has agreed to:
(i) carry out a feasibility study for an ethylene plant by
June 30, 1983 (para. 32);
(ii) notify LPG distributors about locations of storage and dis-
tribution facilities (para. 45);
(iii) prepare an action plan to prevent adverse effects on its
financial condition as a consequence of Bangchak refinery
operations (para. 52);
(iv) obtain funds required to finance the project in a timely
manner (para. 58); and
(v) adhere to the debt service and short-term debt ratios to
ensure efficient allocation of funds and amend the previous
Loan Agreement (No-173TH) (para. 62);
(c) Additional conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) ratification of second Union Oil contract (para. 44);
(ii) notifications to distributors about LPG's availability on
equal terms (para. 45);
(iii) appointment of consultants for designing storage and distri-
bution centers (para. 54);
(iv) effectiveness of OECF and CDC loan agreements, of the export
credit arrangements and of $60 million in commercial bank
loans (para. 58); and
(v) provision of $200 million to PTT by Government (para. 60).



IBRD 13476 RI
R  _ _ 0  -i                   .. |                1000                                      102°                            NOVEMBER 1979
4~~< ~                                                                                    THAILAN\ID
bUicg    -s_                           Saraburi 0                      PROPOSED PIPELINE ROUTES
-~ ~ s~1N ,    VIET  140   Kanchanaburi
, l  yfo_/>\;tAM      ~~~~-14'                             ORTOS               F7,,t                                             4
,iI.   LAND\gAM J   ,P PakhonPattom°                                ;VT   S           ,i/    Disputed Area
PakhonPaoO              Bangkok
-~THAILAN                         ontoB~~gangPkong                                    D      Gas Wells
Ratchoburi,        -                cb                  5,    Oil Wells
I; ,>-   -\tMPuC8E~  *@   SamutSongkhrom°                0      Dry Holes
)  \KAMP1JCIIEA~~amu Sogha                                                            Proposed Pipelnes
,   >9,;4s   _o     O                        /                 />CP  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gas Fields
Phetchaburio                                         //   GsFed
Areao   -                                                                                 Ia  -     -  nternational Boundaries
Map
A, l-                                    'TERMIAI-,L                 (
INDONESIA                                                               0 S |
98|
(  QEMOCRA TfC
r   -12°           Q G    Ui iR M- A 2-   Plzchua              °        |                                          -KAMPUCHEA    }
WKRURMA~~~~ ~or ichuap
w                0)~~~~~~
~   ~2    ~:   --     °hirK/n7                                                      /  > 0
g/~~, 
, s ~~~~/                                                     Of r,                    /kA?it  5r9 R F/FD
'   f"'       -   ''                 \     O         .//77'   /       /
0/ 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Rcuphonong/ 
-    Surat Thani°o                                  4 h !/¢f/\   STROCTURF F/ZID
, ,                                                    o      \i,<sIX.///.<               THAIZAND
Phangnga                                                                                      80///  //* BUNDARK ClAIM
180          .i<;;           < >                                                 0           7Krabi  '                      `8
.^    Phatthalun3                       °
"'  ,'* R,ong               .                                             / S k
>                                              - Songkblo                         O           / /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ THAILAND & MA,LAYSIA
Satun Sfra    n
0-                    Nakon Si0             '-Narothiwat                       /
-6a°morot      .                                     ' - - - - >  / rh -ph.. b.- pre       p-d bythe
020 40 60  Bo I90 120 140 160                                                                                     W.Y .-k' -   :g/ t         he (,e/ettff -ehCu-1ve for
KILOMETERS                                                                     '                                  :1.--s... \     f-- .ith ro twh ct it / tahtd
Ml LEStet                                                                         /                             'h.tP / IE/  or
ihthln OOt                                                            0/0 - ,   As l - A   Y   5  il  A, -    5" ''  t.r tCcept/ntcotroafns tyhdigt -t
0                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  h  - .i
10,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



A                                                                                                                       a S



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR
EXECUTIVE                                        ~~~~~~~~~~For consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                          June 17, 1982
DIRECTORS' I_______
MEETING
I
R82-179/1
FROM:   Vice President and Secretary                        June 11, 1982
THAILAND: Liquified Petroleum Gas Project
Corrigendum
The attached map (IBRD 16244) replaces the map (IBRD 13476R1)
included in the President's Report and Recommendation on Thailand:
Liquified Petroleum Gas Project (R82-179) distributed on June 1, 1982.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



4e02                                 0           ~                <     ~      -IJ
LAO   REOPiE'S   DEW REP-~~~~~BLBO-Mt4
I                                                                             <¼N-
-Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ORTH           $(½
j~l S.T~"                                                                                                         A   N
16' ~ ~    ~    ~     _                                                                          
ChO-                                        AE'AAA6Eh-TC 
- _NB                                   \KATRSHAFA
ft                                                                                               "~~    ?                  'VET  ABA
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
soa  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El NSET            ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      >    BIBE            /~   SA2K
12'
THA[LAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
06"~~~~~~
¶2p                                                                                       PRVICALBOWXRE
1'          ENERGYI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C AON~POR LN
/                         AVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAN   AEA
At                                                                                         I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R I .ItI"  EO   OPRTONCNE
IB~~~~                                           -           PBSAIAQIB  RSLNSARIES ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v                                 P-ERPLNT
IS                                                                     BA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  "   NoAPK
SOA.ARAAEB    MARSI SAR
EIa0gr2                                                                                         AAILWA -IIII .ITTAYAEb     SLACA  CNE
TRANSFER    ~ ~ ~    ~     SB ,PPEL    0
BA'                                                                                                                          \TC EAWER PALCA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8A-~PN
ErA'-                                                      B"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'NA ~A
PROWOSED ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~E
N00   '                                                       OM  RBAEL



