      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020033


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                      Project Name
 P045499                                         EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II

 Country                                         Practice Area(Lead)                                Additional Financing
 Egypt, Arab Republic of                         Water                                              P111040



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-45620,IBRD-78570,TF-26126                         30-Jun-2007                                                           323,600,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  15-Jun-2000                                            31-Mar-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                            80,000,000.00                                                          0.00

  Revised Commitment                                             72,957,374.41                                                          0.00

  Actual                                                         72,957,374.41                                                          0.00




 Sector(s)
 Irrigation and drainage(95%):Central government administration(5%)

 Theme(s)
 Water resource management(25%):Environmental policies and institutions(25%):Rural services and infrastructure(24%):Participation and
 civic engagement(13%):Rural policies and institutions(13%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Hassan Wally                       George T. K. Pitman                  Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The Second National Drainage Project-II was the second-phase of the government’s 12-year National Drainage Program 1991-2003. The
    main objective of the Program was to increase agricultural productivity on 1.77 million feddan through the establishment of good drainage
    conditions and the evacuation of excess water from the area. The first-phase project closed in late 2000.
    The project's objectives stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 2) were to:
    "(i) increase the agricultural productivity of about 0.8 million feddan of irrigated land by improving drainage conditions through
    evacuation of excess irrigation water with subsurface drains into existing open drains; and (ii) avoid yield and production losses
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



     on this land, which would result if waterlogging and soil salinity problems were to persist. Other project objectives include building
     capacity in the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) through institutional support, technical assistance and
     training activities provided under bilateral donors' assistance. In addition, the project would assist in identifying and addressing
     the environmental issues resulting from the discharge of untreated raw industrial and domestic waste into a few open drains in the
     project areas."
     The project's objectives stated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2) were to:
     "(a) to increase the efficiency of drainage of about 0.8 million feddans of irrigated land; (b) to increase agricultural production and
     improve rural income; and (c) to identify and oversee the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the discharge into the
     open drains of untreated industrial and domestic waste water in the project area."
     On March 2, 2010, the project received approval for Additional Financing (AF) worth US$30.00 million, according to the AF Project Paper (p.
     ii) the objectives of the additional financing were to:
     "(a) to increase the efficiency of drainage of an additional 0.09 million feddans of irrigated land to bring the total area improved
     under the project to about 1.0 million feddans; (b) to increase agricultural production and improve rural income; and (c) to identify
     and oversee the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the discharge into the open drains of untreated industrial and
     domestic waste water in the project area."
     The Loan Agreement (p. 5) for the Additional Financing stated the objectives as:
     "(a) to improve the efficiency of drainage for an additional 90,000 feddans of irrigated land to increase the total area to about 1.0
     million feddans; (b) to increase agricultural production and improve rural income; and (c) to identify and oversee the resolution of
     environmental issues resulting from the discharge into the open drains of untreated industrial and domestic wastewater in the
     project area."

     This Review evaluates the outcomes against the objectives as stated in the original Loan Agreement taking into account the revised output
     target for project area coverage as a result of additional financing.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     The ICR did not provide a breakdown of project costs per component. This information was requested from the Project Team during the
     preparation of this Review, but actual costs were not available.
     There were four components:
     1. Subsurface Drainage (appraisal cost: US$201.3million, actual cost: not provided). This component was to finance the provision of
     subsurface drainage for about 390,000 feddan in the old cultivated lands and about 110,000 feddan in the reclaimed lands, including
     10,000 feddan of trenchless drains (1 feddan = 0.42 hectares).

     2. Deepening and remodeling of open surface drains on about 365,000 fed (appraisal cost: US$14.77 million, actual cost: not
     provided). The project would support deepening and remodeling of open surface drains on about 365,000 feddan mostly in the project
     areas.

     3. Provision of materials, equipment, and spare parts (appraisal cost: US$17.5 million, actual cost: not provided). "The Egyptian
     Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP's) seven pipe production facilities were initially financed and established in the Government
     sector through USAID, World Bank and German support. Spread all over Egypt, these facilities produce 80 mm perforated plastic
     (polyvinyl chloride or PVC) pipes for laterals and various sizes of PVC and polyethylene (PE) pipes for collectors for the subsurface
     drainage of irrigated agricultural land. EPADP has taken a first step under the ongoing National Drainage Project, through Netherlands
     funding, to carry out a review of the production facilities by an international independent consultant with a view to further improving the
     management and efficient operation of the facilities and possible gradual commercialization or privatization. Under the proposed project,
     EPADP would pursue two actions with a view to further improve efficiency and spur competition: (i) EPADP would carry out a study to look
     at the options for commercialization or privatization of these facilities, two years after the effectiveness of the Bank loan; and (ii) the project
     would also require modifications to the current procurement arrangements of drainage pipes to allow works contractors the option for
     provision of pipes through their drainage works contracts. The EPADP facilities would, in the meantime, over the first two years of the
     project, gradually convert to commercialized or privatized entities able to compete for the supply of pipes to contractors. This was also
     expected to open the way for private sector suppliers, who could then develop the required lines of production for drainage pipes and also
     compete for the supply of pipes to the project. Specifically, the project would finance the provision of PVC/PE powder for a transitional
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



    period, emergency pumping equipment for the regional emergency drainage centers, subsurface and open drain operation and
    maintenance equipment, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles, and spare parts for the drainage program.

    4. Institutional Support for the EPADP (appraisal cost: US$10.43 million, actual cost: not provided). Existing open conveyance
    drains that receive the outflow from the buried field drainage suffer from a number of issues external in nature to the project including:
    reuse of drainage water, stagnation of open conveyance drains that could become habitats for the schistosomiasis vector which carries
    serious health implications, and dumping of agricultural, industrial and domestic waste leading to heavy pollution of drainage water. These
    problems were exacerbated by the weak enforcement of the River Nile Protection Law 48 of 1982. The project support would include: (i)
    Technical Assistance (TA) and training to assist the EPADP and the Water Boards Project to establish a pilot scheme for integrating
    Irrirgation and Drainage (I&D) users’ associations in the two governorates of Kafr El Sheikh and Sharkiyah, covering areas not exceeding
    2,000–3,000 feddan each; (ii) TA and training in support of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to mitigate and manage pollution
    of open drainage canals; (iii) support for farmers’ outreach and participatory activities to educate the farmers to ensure the operation of the
    drains and begin to organize and involve the farmers (at the collector level) in the maintenance of the drainage pipe networks by forming
    collector users' associations; and (iv) supply of equipment, vehicles, TA and training to EPADP on (M&E and O&M of drainage system).

    Revised Components after the approval of Additional Financing
    Component 1 (subsurface drainage) and Component 2 (open drain rehabilitation and remodeling) were merged into a new
    component called Drainage Works. The activities remained the same and just increased the amount of works to reflect the scale-up
    enabled by additional financing: (a) provision of subsurface drainage to an area of 35,000 fed; (b) renewal and rehabilitation of old
    subsurface drainage in about 55,000 feddan; (c) deepening and remodeling of open surface drains in 20,000 feddan; (d) procurement of
    machinery, equipment, and spare parts; and (e) technical support to strengthen the institutional capacity of EPADP in a number of areas
    including environmental management and awareness activities, drainage advisory services, O&M and improvement of management
    information systems, and auditing of the Project accounts.
    .




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost. The total project cost at appraisal was estimated to be US$278.45 million. At completion the ICR did not report actual
    project costs.

    Financing. The project was initially financed through an IBRD Loan of US$50.0 million that was fully disbursed. An Additional Financing
    by IBRD in 2010 provided a Loan of US$30.00 million of which US$22.96 million was disbursed and US$7.04 million was cancelled. The
    project also was expected to receive parallel financing worth US$50.00 million, US$40.00 million and US$3.6 million from the European
    Investment Bank, Kerditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW, German Bank for International Development Financing); and Netherlands
    Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Ministry of Development Cooperation, respectively. The ICR did not provide the actual amounts of parallel
    financing supplied or disbursed.

    Borrower Contribution. The Borrower agreed to contribute US$134.8 million of counterpart funds at the time of project approval and
    subsequently agreed to contribute an additional US$15.3 million of counterpart funds under the AF approved on March 2, 2010. The ICR
    did not report on the actual amounts of counterpart funds.

    Dates. The project was expected to close on June 30, 2007. The actual closing date was March 31, 2015; which was 7 years and 9
    months later than expected. The closing date was extended multiple times including accommodation of the delayed effectiveness of the
    AF by two years due to political turmoil from what is known as the "Arab Spring" that started on January 25, 2011. The project was
    restructured four times, all Level 2 as follows:
    1. On March16, 2006 to extend the closing date by one year to June 30, 2008, in order to ensure that all the project’s activities were
    completed and objectives attained. The amount disbursed by this date was US$26.6 million.
    2. On March 10, 2010 to approve Additional Financing and revise the Results Framework targets upwards to reflect the expansion of
    project activities. The amount disbursed by this date was US$49.65 million.
    3. On April 25, 2013 to extend the original closing date of by two years to March 31, 2015, to compensate for delays in project
    implementation because of the Arab Spring political turmoil that started on January 25, 2011. The amount disbursed by this date was
    US$56.18 million.
    4. On April 1, 2014 in response to the Government of Egypt's request to reallocate loan proceeds among different project categories, as
    well as to increase IBRD's loan percentage share for works category, from 65% to 85%, to alleviate fiscal challenges. The amount
    disbursed by tis date was US$62.37 million.
    The MidTerm Review was conducted as originally envisaged at appraisal on April 10, 2005.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Substantial.
   The construction of the Aswan High Dam in 1965 enabled Egypt to move to year-round irrigation, with crop intensities close to 200%.
   However, the natural drainage process historically provided by fluctuation of the Nile’s level between summer and winter was lost.
   Recognizing the urgent need for effective drainage to mitigate the risk of waterlogging and salinization and their adverse effects on crop
   productivity, the Government of Egypt since 1970 adopted a strategy to provide and maintain all the cropped lands with artificial drainage
   systems. Drainage projects were included in all of the earlier and current Five-Year Development Plans.
   At project appraisal objectives were highly relevant to the Government strategy and priorities for the irrigation and drainage sector as they
   contribute to agricultural development, particularly targeting socially disadvantaged groups. In addition, well functioning irrigation and
   drainage systems constitute a strategic sustainability measure for crop production in Egypt, that makes a significant contribution to GDP and to
   food security. Also, a well functioning drainage system prevents the deterioration of the irrigated lands, increases agricultural productivity, and
   increases farmers’ incomes.
   Objectives were also in line with the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, FY97, p. 9) for Egypt which aimed, among other things,
   to raise rural incomes through diversified agriculture based on efficient and environmentally sustainable use of land and water resources.
   Improving irrigation and drainage infrastructure were identified as the principal vehicles for encouraging sustainable agricultural development;
   reducing rural poverty and ensuring the well-being of the rural population; and developing human resources through the provision of training
   and technical assistance to the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects.
   At project completion objectives continue to be substantially relevant to the country conditions and Government priorities for the agriculture
   and irrigation subsector. However, the World Bank Group's Country Partnership Framework for Egypt (FY15-FY19) reflected a shift in the
   World Bank Group's support "from irrigation and drainage infrastructure to linking farms with markets and enhancing the productivity of labor-
   intensive agriculture."




   Rating
   Substantial


b. Relevance of Design

   Substantial.
   Design included a clear and focused statement of objectives that described what the project intended to do. The Results Framework reflected
   clear and logical connections between the project inputs, outputs and expected outcomes except for the environmental aspects and institutional
   capacity building which were not reflected in the Results Framework. This was not corrected under the Additional Financing because its
   objectives were the same as the original objectives. To achieve the stated objectives; design featured four components. Components 1, 2 and 3
   included activities geared towards improving drainage infrastructure through financing subsurface irrigation in project areas, rehabilitation of
   surface drainage in project areas and financing equipment such as PVC/PE powder for a transitional period, emergency pumping equipment for
   the regional emergency centers, subsurface and open drain operation and maintenance (O&M) equipment, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles,
   and spare parts for the drainage program. These activities were relevant and would contribute to achieving the objectives through improving
   drainage in project areas. This improvement in drainage was expected to reduce salinity in the soil through leaching excess salts, which would
   improve productivity in project areas. Also, the choice of subsurface drainage was advantageous especially to small landholders as it requires
   minimum maintenance work and farmers did not have to sacrifice part of the cropped land. The last component of the project aimed to provide
   training to assist the EPADP and the Water Boards to establish a pilot scheme for integrating I&D users’ associations in the two governorates
   as well as training in support of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP); and support for farmers’ outreach and participatory activities.
   These activities were expected to contribute to the identification and overseeing the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the
   discharge into the open drains of untreated industrial and domestic waste water in the project area.
   Design had some minor shortcomings, most notable was the inclusion of the privatization of the plastic pipe factories as part of the project
   design. This approach proved to be difficult and resulted in implementation delays as securing regular plastic pipe supplies became a constraint
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



       for project works. Design also underestimated the complexity of dealing with environmental issues resulting from the discharge of untreated raw
       industrial and domestic waste into a few open drains in the project areas. Addressing this issue proved to be challenging since the
       environmental aspects of the project exceeded the mandate and capacity of the implementing agency, and the responsibility to deal with this
       environmental problem was fragmented across different institutions (beyond the project's influence).




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     “(a) to increase the efficiency of drainage of about 0.8 million [revised to 1.0 million] feddans of irrigated land; (b) to increase agricultural
     production and improve rural income; and (c) to identify and oversee the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the discharge into
     the open drains of untreated industrial and domestic waste water in the project area.”

     This statement of objectives has four sub-objectives:

     (a) to increase the efficiency of drainage of about 0.8 million [revised to 1.0 million] feddans of irrigated land;
     (b) to increase agricultural production
     (c) to improve rural income; and
     (c) to identify and oversee the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the discharge into the open drains of untreated industrial and
     domestic waste water in the project area.

     The outcomes cannot be solely attributed to the project. The project was complemented by other projects in the Bank portfolio that supported
     strengthening of irrigation services, agriculture extension and institutional reform, as well as bilateral support for Technical Assistance from
     the United States Agency for International Development, the German bank for international development financing (Kerditanstalt fur
     Wiederaufbau [KfW]), the African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Islamic Development Bank and the
     Dutch bilateral program.


     (a) to increase the efficiency of drainage of about 0.8 million [revised to 1.0 million] feddans of irrigated. Substantial.


    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Under the original project a total area of 484,976 feddan were completed with new subsurface drainage, representing 97% of the total
        area at appraisal of 500,000 feddan; and old malfunctioning subsurface drainage was renewed and rehabilitated on a total area of 489,584
        feddan representing 166%of the total area at appraisal of 300,000 feddan. In addition, 459,863 feddan had their open surface drains
        deepened and remodeled representing 98.58% of the total area at appraisal of 466,683 feddan.
        • Under the Additional Financing a total area 28,532 feddan was completed with new subsurface irrigation representing 82% of the initially
        approved total target area of 35,000 feddans; and old malfunctioning subsurface drainage was renewed and rehabilitated on a total area of
        44,973 feddan representing 82%from the initially approved total target area of 55,000 feddan. In addition, 33,945 feddan had their open
        surface drains deepended and remodeled representing 170 % of the total target area of 20,000 feddan.
        • By project completion 10,570 water user associations were created and/or strengthened compared to an original target of 8,900 and a
        revised target of 10,300. However, beneficiaries’ survey results indicate that the involvement of the Collector User Associations (CUAs) in
        the operation and management was poor or null.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)




    Outcome
    The project supported the introduction of new subsurface irrigation drainage in project areas. This type of drainage has a lifespan of 30 years
    and requires minimal maintenance compared to open drain ditches. Also, it is particularly advantageous to small holders since no land is
    sacrifices as the whole system is subsurface. The project also supported the rehabilitation and remodeling of old malfunctioning subsurface
    drainage as well as open surface drains which were deepened and remodeled. The total area covered by the project reached 1.56 million
    feddan (1,057,065 feddan from subsurface drainage plus 500,625 feddan by remodeling open drains) significantly exceeding the target of
    1.00 million feddan. The principal measure of efficiency is how effectively waterlogging is controlled. As a result of these efforts
    measurements of the water table through EPADP and the project's M&E data in different project areas showed that the water table was
    lowered to more than 1 meter below ground level thus reducing evaporative concentration of minerals from irrigation water in the soil. Also,
    the improved drainage in project areas allowed leaching of salts out of the active root zone area and reduced soil salinity in project areas to
    about 4 mmhos/cm. A beneficiaries’ survey conducted by EPADP showed that on average, 75% of the farmers in project areas thought that
    the subsurface drainage was good and resulted in lowering the water table, they also thought that the project activities led to an increase in
    their land productivity and their income. However, there was no baseline information on the water table levels and salinity levels in project
    areas prior to the project intervention.
    While the projects achieved or even exceeded its physical targets on drainage, very little was achieved on the privatization of the seven
    plastic pipe production factories publicly owned by EPADP - which was the primary institutional reform promoted by the project. It was
    expected that privatization would increase competition and quality and lower prices, thus providing incentives to install new subsurface drains.
    In March 2003, an agreement with the Government was reached to transfer the factories to the newly established Irrigation and Drainage
    holding companies as a first step toward full privatization. By February 28, 2004 a study of the modalities of transfer and an assessment and
    evaluation of the pipe factories’ assets was carried, however, by 2006 the State Council ruled that the transfer of ownership to the holding
    companies was illegal. Consequently, the Government liquidated the holding companies in October 2006. EPDAP had two concerns with
    regards to privitization, first there was a concern of cost escalation by the private sector, and second there was a conecrn that the private
    sector might shift production to other more profitable products or even shut down the factories and sell their assets. On the heels of all of this,
    a high-level committee at the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources concluded that selling the factories to the private sector was not a
    valid option.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     (b) to increase agricultural production. Modest.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Wheat crop yield in drained sample areas increased to 2.98 ton/feddan compared to a baseline of 2.59 tons/feddan. The average wheat
        crop yield increase in the project areas was about 15%. The crop yield increase in new subsurface drainage areas was 14% and in the
        renewed drainage areas was16%.
        • Rice crop yield in drained sample areas increased to 3.21tons/feddan compared to a baseline of 2.71 tons/feddan. The average wheat
        crop yield increase in the project areas was about 18.5%. The crop yield increase in new subsurface drainage areas was 17% and in the
        renewed drainage areas was 20%.
        • Cotton crop yield in drained sample areas increased to 1.21 tons/feddan compared to a baseline of 1.09 tons/feddan. The average
        wheat crop yield increase in the project areas was about 18.5%. The crop yield increase in new subsurface drainage areas was 17% and
        in the renewed drainage areas was 20%.
        • Broad Beans crop yield in drained sample areas increased to 2.03 tons/feddan compared to a baseline of 1.77 tons/feddan. The
        average broad beans crop yield increase in the project areas was about 14.7%. The crop yield increase in new subsurface drainage
        areas was 14% and in the renewed drainage areas was 15%.
        • Maize crop yield in drained sample areas increased to 3.09 tons/feddan compared to a baseline of 2.4 tons/feddan. The average wheat
        crop yield increase in the project areas was about 28.8%. The crop yield increase in new subsurface drainage areas was 28% and in the
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



        renewed drainage areas was 29%.


    Outcome
    There is no information on the increase in agricultural production. As a proxy, the ICR presented data showing that the yield of individual
    crops increased as a result of the project. All other things being equal, increased yields could be expected to lead to increased agricultural
    production. However, there were a number of concerns that could potentially impact production and were not addressed by the ICR. First
    there was no information on whether all the project area was cultivated and whether there was sufficient water to irrigate it all; second some
    land may have been left fallow; third, some farmers might not have had adequate credit to buy all the required seeds and other inputs to
    cultivate their fields; fourth, there is no information on how many feddans in the project areas were lost to urbanization over the course of the
    implementation period which lasted 15 years; and fifth yield improvements may have been the result of better and more timely inputs,
    improved seeds, and better farm management. We have no idea of what these factors may have contributed and, lacking that evidence,
    efficacy can only be rated modest.
    As a result of improving drainage efficiency in project areas, the water table was reduced and salinity decreased as mentioned earlier. This
    resulted in an increase in crop yield in the range of 14-29%. The effect of improved drainage was highest on the yield of crops that were most
    sensitive to salinity like maize. Also, the amount of yield increase was influenced by the extent of deterioration in the root zone (salinity
    combined with high water table) before the introduction of drainage improvements supported by the project.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     (c) to improve rural income. Substantial.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • The outputs under the first and second objectives pertain to this one as well.


    Outcome
    The project benefitted 704,710 families compared to an original target of 400,0000 families and a restructuring target of 687,000 families. The
    project M&E data combined with field-collected data point to a 30% increase in the net value of production in the project areas mainly from
    productivity gains that resulted from the new and/or improved drainage systems supported by the project (ICR, para 47) and maybe other
    unspecified inputs. According to estimates of farm models used in the financial analysis, net income increase after factoring in repayment
    costs was 13.2% for 4 feddan farms, 7.6% for 2 feddan farms, and 6.2% for 0.75 feddan farms. Income increases for smaller farms were
    proportionally lower because they were probably more dependent on off-farm sources of income that are not affected by the project
    interventions. The improved drainage condition of soils would also facilitate the possibility of diversification to higher-value crops which could
    improve even further the results of the project interventions. Finally, estimated net income per cultivated feddan increased by 10 to 200%
    (depending on the crop) as a result of the combined effects of higher yields with similar costs of production (ICR, Annex 3, para 12).
    Assessment of this outcome would have benefitted from some measure of changes in poverty in project areas before and after the
    intervention. Also, a counterfactual was needed to determine net improvement in incomes. There was no household survey in the ICR. The
    project’s investments probably contributed to higher farmers’ incomes in project areas, and the presence of a cost recovery mechanism was
    expected to allow the recovery of most of the capital investment costs.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



 Objective 4

 Objective
 (c) to identify and oversee the resolution of environmental issues resulting from the discharge into the open drains of untreated industrial and
 domestic waste water in the project area. Modest.

 Rationale
 Outputs

    • Major sources of pollution into open drains were identified. An Environmental review was conducted in 10 areas and mitigation
    measures were recommended. A pilot was implemented for an in-stream wetland to treat drain water in main open drains.
    • Monitoring of illegal discharges of domestic and industrial wastewater into open drains and enforcement of Law 48 against violators was
    carried out by the EPADP. Also, monitoring of drainage water quality improved under the project and was carried out by the Drainage
    Research Institute.


 Outcome
 The project succeed in identifying the major source of pollution in open drains. However, no successful resolution was implemented because
 dealing with such environmental issues (water quality, environmental monitoring, and pollution control) was beyond the mandate of the
 implementing agency and involved other institutions and stakeholders beyond the project's influence. The ICR (para 48) stated that " no major
 executive steps have been taken to resolve or mitigate the pollution problems."


 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex ante

  • The economic analysis was carried out over a period of 30 years, which is the useful life of the investments made under the project.
  Benefits from the project were computed for 14 major crops (11 in Delta, 13 in Middle Egypt and 11 in Upper Egypt); two crops (rice and
  sugar cane) were produced only in the Delta and Upper Egypt regions, respectively.
  • Based on available monitoring data, the effects of subsurface drainage in lowering water table depth and reducing soil salinity were
  assessed before and after, and without and with the installation of subsurface drainage. Project benefit flows were derived from crop budgets
  (utilizing drainage effects on crop yields from the monitoring data), adjusting financial to constant Year 2000 economic prices and
  constructing a benefit build-up based on the total effective area across the three project regions of Egypt entering the project each year.
  • The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 23%.The net present value (NPV) of the project was calculated at the 12% discount
  rate (representing the opportunity cost of capital) to be US$178.5 million equivalent at the current exchange rate, which represents the
  present value of the incremental national income generated by the investment in subsurface drainage in Egypt.
  • The estimated cost of implementation of the subsurface lateral and collector of was estimated to be about US$750/ha which
  was considered comparable to the costs of similar works in other countries (at the time of appraisal) with large areas of subsurface drainage
  systems. Costs also included recurrent costs in the form of O&M of the installed drainage system assumed to continue after the initial project
  investments have been made until the end of the project's useful life.
  • Calculation of individual benefits in terms of preventing losses was carried out on a per feddan basis, comparing "with" and "without"
  project crop budgets. Financial models have been evaluated for a 2 feddan farm unit, representing the typical farm unit in in the different
  farming regions of Egypt (Delta, Middle Egypt, and Upper Egypt). On the basis of calculations from these models, investment in subsurface
  drainage was found to be financially remunerative, with financial rates of return per farm unit ranging from 25% to 28%.
  • The ERR for the Additional Financing was estimated to be 24% percent and the NPV at LE 195 million.


ex post
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



   • The same ERR methodology was applied. The scenarios representing the ‘with’ and ‘without’ project situations were estimated for
   comparing updated projections of expected benefits with the project investment costs valued at the time of the analysis (2015 values). The
   scenarios were built based on the M&E Unit data of the yield changes observed in sampled areas where yields were monitored before and
   three years after improvements. Since no control area was monitored by the M&E Unit, the ‘without project’ scenario was assumed to be
   similar to the ‘before’ situation.
   • Assumptions about costs and benefits and the required technical coefficients and parameters supporting the crop budget analysis were
   based on current (2015) field and cost estimations observed. All project costs under the project and AF for the improvements of the drainage
   systems and the project support activities from 2002 to 2015 were included even when not all their benefits were quantified. All project costs
   were inflated by an annual rate of 10% per year, which corresponds to the average discount rate in Egypt for 2002–2015.
   • Costs of the subsurface drainage works were valued by the EPADP at US$384 to US$418 per feddan depending on the region (using
   2015 costs).The cost of the subsurface drainage was being recovered from farmer beneficiaries through the land tax mechanism over a 20-
   year period, free of interest.
   • A Sensitivity Analysis showed that if the drainage improvement investment costs had been 50% higher than the actual costs in 2015
   constant values, the overall ERR would still be 24.9% percent (NPV at US$760 million). If prices of the main products from irrigated
   agriculture were to drop by 20% from the prices used for the estimated benefits, the overall ERR would drop to 29.2 % (NPV at US$666.7
   million). If both events occurred simultaneously (that is, investment is up by 50% and the price of products is down by 20% below estimated
   levels), the ERR would be reduced to 19.7 percent (NPV at US$480 million).
   • At project closing, the overall investment shows an ERR of 36.6% and an estimated NPV of the project and its AF project investments was
   US$601.5 million in constant 2015 values (US$571.2 million under NDPII and US$30.3 million under the AF).
   • Project costs compare favorably to other areas, for example, in Sub-Saharan Africa irrigation development costs (similar type of works) are
   in the order of 15,000 US$/ha which translates to US$6,303 per feddan (1 ha = 2.38 feddan) compared to US$384 to US$418 per feddan
   under the project.


Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The project suffered from significant implementation delays. The original project took 10 years for completion instead of 7 and the AF took 5
years for completion instead of 3. While political turmoil might have played a factor during the AF period, the delay of three years for the original
project should have been avoided. The Arab spring political turmoil of 2011 and political instability the following years led to procurement and
contract management delays, and high turnover at EPADP management. Also, institutional reforms lacked resolution, specifically with regards
to the privatization of the public-owned pipe factories. There were also implementation delays due to the absence of qualified procurement
specialists, lengthy internal procedures, and the unavailability of drainage plastic pipes "due to lack of funds to buy sufficient raw plastic powder
(as the WB did not approve it, ICR, p. 8).

Efficiency is rated substantial despite significant implementation delays.



Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?               Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              100.00
 Appraisal                                                                  24.00
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                               36.60
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)




Relevance of objectives and relevance of design were both rated substantial. Efficacy of the first objective was rated substantial where the total
area covered by the project reached 1.56 million feddan exceeding the target of 1.00 million feddan, however there notable weaknesses on
institutional reforms. Efficacy of the second objective was rated modest where there was no information on the increase in agricultural
production. Efficacy of the third objective was rated substantial where the project investments contributed to higher farmers’ incomes in project
areas. Efficacy of the fourth objective was rated modest where the project faced challenges in achieving its targets on environmental issues.
Efficiency was rated substantial despite some weaknesses on the administrative and institutional side.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The project invested in subsurface drainage which is a reliable alternative compared to surface drainage; and requires minimal maintenance
especially on lands used for crop production. Some maintenance might be required on lands planted with fruit orchards as occasionally the
buried drainage pipes might get blocked with tree roots. On the other hand, open surface drainage ditches/canals require annual desilting and
annual/ biannual clearing from weeds and salt tolerant plants. The ICR (para 64) stated that the "EPADP has acquired considerable experience
in maintenance of both subsurface and surface drainage and keeps an annual budget line item for maintenance even under budgetary
constraints" which makes the risk associated from lack of maintenance moderate.
There is a significant concern with regards to the discharge of waste water in open surface drainage canals in project areas. The project failed to
address this environmental problem and without proper attention it is expected to continue and cause significant environmental damage.




a.   Risk to Development Outcome Rating
      Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry

      • The project was a follow-on operation to the National Drainage project. The World Bank’s engagement in the drainage sector in
      Egypt spanned over four decades, co-financing over six investment operations. This project supported FY97 CAS objective of raising
      rural incomes through diversified agricultural production based on efficient and environmentally sustainable use of land and water
      resources. The project focused solely on improving drainage efficiency, but was complemented by other projects in the Bank portfolio
      that supported strengthening of irrigation services, agriculture extension and institutional reform. Objectives were also in line with
      Government strategy and priorities for the irrigation sector.
      • The World Bank's participation in the drainage program helped attract the support of other donors, including the United States Agency
      for International Development (USAID), the German bank for international development financing (KfW), the African Development Bank
      (AfDB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the Islamic Development Bank. The Dutch bilateral program also made important
      contributions to the program. Donor activities were well coordinated with the Bank and financed important interventions including: the
      establishment of Water Boards, studying the privatization of pipe factories and assessing private sector participation in maintenance of
      the drains (KfW), and monitoring of maintenance activities, drainage performance and complaint management (Dutch grant).
      • The project benefitted from a thorough preparation process which included a series of surveys and studies that helped in ensuring the
      soundness of background analysis. Design was simple and focused on addressing implementation and institutional challenges in the
      drainage subsector. Design also benefitted from earlier experience and lessons from earlier irrigation and drainage projects in Egypt.
      These include: a longer implementation period of six years to take into consideration the implementation speed experienced during the
      previous phase; particular attention was being paid to ensuring an effective start-up through concerted efforts by the Ministry of Water
      Resources and Irrigation, EPADP, Ministry of International Cooperation, and the Bank to accelerate the process of effectiveness;
      capacity building for EPADP to strengthen M&E, MIS and environmental monitoring; and addressing problems related to crop
      compensation through a monitoring system to correct any problems in the process.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



      • Design suffered from two notable shortcomings, first it included an environmental objective without the necessary resources and
      without the involvement relevant stakeholders that had decision making power on environmental issues. This situation continued under
      AF despite the minimal achievement on environmental issues under the original project. Second, design promoted the privatization of
      the publicly-owned plastic pipe factories as a preferred solution, however, this proved challenging and resulted in implementation delays
      as securing regular plastic pipe supplies became a constraint for project works.
      • Several risks were identified at the appraisal stage including: inadequate drainage project designs (rated low); inadequate availability
      of O&M funds (rated low); lack of cooperation of farmers in participating in Collector User Associations (rated moderate); and conversion
      of public monopoly in pipe production into private monopoly (moderate). Appropriate mitigation measures were also identified and
      recommended. However, the risk of weak procurement capacity at EPADP was overlooked because it was assumed that EPADP had
      adequate procurement capacity from its previous involvement with other World Bank funded projects. This problem persisted throughout
      implementation and was not addressed under AF.
      • M&E design had some shortcomings as the environment aspects identified as project objectives were not considered in the key
      performance indicators neither in the original project nor under AF. There was also no attempt to monitor production increases
      attributable to the project.




   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Supervision missions were conducted at least twice a year, but the project experienced a high turnover of Task Team Leaders
   (TTLs) reaching six TTLs in fifteen years. Implementation of activities under the Additional Financing experienced a challenging
   environment due to the political turmoil that started on January 25, 2011 and extended well into 2012. This caused major procurement
   delays when the first Bank payment was in March 2012--seven months after effectiveness of the AF. However, supervision should have
   paid more attention to strengthening procurement capacity at EPADP as the agency experienced high staff turnover, and the new
   staff never received proper procurement training. Also, the privatization of the plastic pipe factories remained unresolved under both the
   original project and AF; and the impact of this should have received more attention. Finally, weaknesses in M&E should have been
   addressed earlier.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government showed commitment and ownership towards achieving the drainage objective of the project. The government effectively
   coordinated the group of development partners supporting the Irrigation and Drainage sector in Egypt. However, attempts by the project to
   promote integrated water resource management achieved limited success due to lack of Government support. More effective coordination
   was needed between the Ministries of Irrigation, Agriculture and Environment particularly to address environmental issues. Finally, the
   Government should have provided more support to ensure the timely effectiveness of the AF phase; the approval of the law for Water
   Boards; creating the enabling environment to implement the institutional and management proposals promoted by the project including the
   privatization of pipe factories; the procurement of the MIS; and the formation of the agreed Steering Committee for the project. That said, it
   is worth noting that the AF phase of the project was implemented under a challenging political environment which negatively impacted
   project implementation; but was beyond the full control of the Government.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The project was implemented by the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) under the Ministry of Water Resources
   and Irrigation. The implementing agency maintained good relations with other relevant ministries including the Ministry of Environment
   and Ministry of Finance as well as with the development partners including IBRD, KfW, and AfDB. The implementing agency also had
   consultations with farmers in project areas prior to executing project activities. However, there were a number of
   shortcomings associated with the implementation of the project including procurement delays, weak contract management, failure to fill
   key appointments (a social focal point and five regional coordinators), persistent weakness of the Collector User Associations, limited
   use of M&E, and an under functioning MIS. Despite these shortcomings, EPADP was effective in implementing drainage infrastructure
   under component 1 and 2 on a very large scale; and all the infrastructure targets were met or exceeded; and according to the ICR (para
   26) the quality of works were generally very high.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The Project Design Summary included 3 outcome indicators and four output indicators. While these indicators were adequate to capture
   the project achievements under the first and third objectives, and part of the second Only farmers' incomes but not production increases),
   there were no environmental indicators to assess the achievement of the fourth objective. Design also should have included an indicator
   to assess the impact of the project on farmers' income in project areas.
   M&E design under the AF followed the original design except for increasing the coverage areas to reflect the project expansion.




b. M&E Implementation
   M&E implementation was through the M&E Unit under the Planning and Follow-up Department of the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
   Projects. Relevant data were collected periodically including the project's impact on yields, water table depth, and salinity of both soil and
   groundwater. Collected data were consolidated in M&E reports and included in the semiannual progress reports, which were shared with the
   Bank. These reports reflected the status of implementation, updated procurement program, disbursement, and commitment tables crop yields
   and the impact of the project on the functioning of subsurface drainage. However, the central M&E unit was understaffed as it included a
   limited number of engineers who moved around the whole country. In addition, the regional offices of the EPADP did not include M&E staff to
   help and complement the work of the central unit.




c. M&E Utilization
   Despite the project's efforts to develop the MIS infrastructure, automating the M&E data through the use of the MIS was not possible. This
   stemmed mainly from implementation delays by the contracting company and outdated software. According to the ICR (par 31) "utilization of
   the M&E for management and decision-making purposes (including course correction) was not clearly done." Finally, the data presented in
   the ICR was partial and more evidence was needed to assess the project outcomes specifically for sub-objective two.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project has been placed in environmental screening Category "B" under OP/BP4.01 "Environmental Assessment". The project triggered
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). The project was not expected to cause or generate irreversible adverse environmental impacts or major
   environment issues. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared for the project by the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage
   Projects based on the Environmental Assessment. The objectives of the EMP were to: minimize negative environmental impacts from
   drainage works/systems; assist establishment of and support to the Environmental Sub-unit in the General Directorate of Planning and
   Follow-up of EPADP by Ministerial Decree; ensure sustainable incorporation of environmental concerns and actions in EPADP activities;
   incorporation of the results of the Environmental Assessment issues report in the project's implementation; and stimulate environmental
   awareness in the drainage sector, especially within EPADP. The activities funded through the AF were under the same environmental
   category as the original project as there was no shift in the scope of interventions except for upscaling the project while maintaining the same
   activities.
   A full Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared for the AF as a precautionary measure in view of the stricter application of safeguard
   standards by the Word Bank Group. The Framework was aligned with the guidelines of the Involuntary Resettlement Sourcebook where crop
   compensation is based on the market value for lost cash crops. The project arrangements specified that contractors pay farmers for crop
   compensations and no payments could be made to the contractors for completed work until crop compensation was paid to farmers.
   According to the ICR (para 33) "the project activities complied with all applicable Bank policies."




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. The project maintained acceptable financial management arrangements and according to the ICR (para 34)
   complied with the Bank's reporting and accounting requirements. Audit reports were found acceptable by the Bank. While the project and the
   AF made significant investment in the MIS development, the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects failed to use MIS to process
   financial statements; and as a result Financial Management was always rated moderately satisfactory. In a further communication during the
   preparation of this review the project team reported that external audits were unqualified.
   Procurement. The political turmoil of 2011 and the following years led to procurement and contract management delays. Also, the absence
   of qualified procurement specialists at the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects and the lengthy internal procedures to complete
   the procurement process and sign contracts caused serious delays. There were cases in which the time between advertising and signing of
   a contract took more than six months. In addition, contract management by the Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects had some
   shortcomings where contracts were awarded to poorly performing contractors, and contracts were not terminated for excessively delayed
   civil works in time to rebid and complete the works before closing. Procurement training was organized only at the beginning of the
   project and at the time of the Additional Financing. However, with the high turnover of EPADP staff, some of the recently recruited staff had
   never received proper procurement training. In a further communication during the preparation of this review the project team reported that
   there were no incidence of misprocurement.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                              Modest                              ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory             ---
Quality of ICR                                                                Modest                              ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR contains fourteen lessons. The following three lessons are emphasized from the ICR with some adaptation of language:

     • The achievement of an objective that spans across the mandate of different agencies requires a clear mechanism to coordinate
     activities and streamline operations among these agencies to ensure successful achievement of outcomes. The project experience
     showed that tackling environmental issues proved to be beyond the mandate of the implementing agency and more coordination with other
     institutions was required.
     • Project design should be realistic and appropriate to the institutional capacity of the client, taking into consideration the
     qualifications and skills of the staff. The project's experience showed that the implementing agency proved to be less efficient in
     environmental and socioeconomic issues since most of the staff had an engineering background. Therefore, operations that require expertise
     outside the capacity of the implementing agency should have responsibilities well-defined; and risks and mitigation measures clearly
     identified.
     • M&E design should include key performance indicators that reflect capacity building and institutional support especially when
     they are reflected in the objectives. The inclusion of relevant key performance indicators is essential to capture the impact of the the
     project; and the presence of these indicators might be a factor that causes the implementing agency to give the deserved attention to the
     associated activities even if they are financed through parallel financing.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provided thorough yet concise coverage of project activities. It also provided good detail on the implementation challenges faced by
the project and candidly reported on shortcomings. Discussion of outcomes was logical and based on actual information gathered through
the project's M&E, ICR mission and relevant project documents. However, more evidence was needed on the impact of the project on
agriculture production. The ICR included fourteen lessons, most of which were country/project specific and could guide future irrigation and
drainage projects in Egypt, while three lessons were more general in nature and could guide similar World Bank-funded projects in other
countries.
A notable shortcoming in the ICR (Annex 1) was the absence of a cost break down by component, and the actual amounts disbursed by
IBRD (original loan and AF) and by other donors. Also, no information was available on the actual amounts of counterpart funds. This
information was requested from the project team in a further communication during the preparation of this review, however, limited
information was provided. This is a serious shortcoming that impacts that accountability of the ICR and limits the ability of this review to get a
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       EG-NATIONAL DRAINAGE II(P045499)



transparent view of the actual costs of components.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Modest
