ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorld Frfe 01 lro1Vtort
H  z-  -=-  -=-     --
InfoShop
Report No AC11
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/02/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: TANZANIA                                 Project ID P074072
Project TZ PRSCI                                 Task Team Leader: Benno J Ndulu
Authlorized to Appraise Date: February 13, 2003   IBRD Amount ($in).
Bank Approval. May 27, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m) 100 00
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE 32
Managing Unit: AFTP2                              Sector General public administration sector (100%)
Lending Instrument: Poverty Reduction Support Credit  Theme: Other finanicial and private sector
(PRC)                             development (P)
Status. Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives
This Poverty Reduction Support Grant (US$ 32 0 millioni equivalenit) and Credit (US$ 100.0 millioni
equivalent) (PRSCI) provides a single-tranche facility to the United Republic of Tanzania in the total
amount of US$132 million equivalent to support the implementation of the Tanzaniia PRS, as set out in
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and subsequent updates in the first and second PRS
progress reports.
The PRSC for Tanzania will deepen the reforn agenda supported by the Programmatic Structural
Adjustment Credit I and include new areas of activity mainly aimed at scaling up growth and broadening
its impact onl poverty reduction, and a sharper focus on achieving results from public spending
Continuity and deepening of the PSAC agenda will include furtlher improvemenits in the business
environmenit, including for the rural economy, enhanicilg public service delivery by focusilng on
effectiveness and quality of public service delivery; and a focus on expenditure tracking to leverage
onigoling efforts to improve the public financial management and accountability
1 A.3 Project Description:
The proposed Credit and Graiit operation of US$132 million is a Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC) that would build on recent reforms undertaken by the United Republic of Tanzania and support
the implementation of Tanzania's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) as summarized in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and subsequent updates undertakeni with aninual progress reports. The
first PRSC would focus Onl private sector development and public sector management to complete and
deepen the reform agenda defined under the Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) arid lay



2
ISDS
the ground for attacking income poverty more aggressively. It is envisaged that there will be at least two
further single-traniche PRSCs (each LIp to US$ 150 million equivalent) in FY04 and FY05
The credit/grant will support the implementation of Tanzania's Poverty Reduction Strategy by.
(i) Accelerating growth: After nearly a decade of macro stabilization, structural reform and
liberalization, the rate of growth of the Tanzanian economy remains low relative to the requirements
for effective poverty reduction and the achievemilent of the Millenniulim Development GoalsA key
target therefore is to raise growth to between 6 and 7 percent in the medium term by promoting
higher private investment, reducing the cost of doing business, and enilanicinig the efficiency of the
Tanzanian economy.
(ii) Broadening the impact of growth About half of Tanzania's output derives from the rural
economy and more thanl 70 percent of its population depends on it for its livelihood. Most of the
GoT reforms to date have had a stronger impact in the urban and service sectors. Hence the program
of PRSCs will support efforts to spread the impact of both reformis and resultant growthi to the rural
income poor througlr
*   Enhancemilent of the profitability of agriculture broadly and export products of rural origin in
particular, through better quality, higher productivity, reduced marketing cost and improved
access to markets.
*   Removal of remaining institutional constraints on rural activities, and
*   Correcting the disincentives arising from the overall tax regime, specially those resulting from
the overbearing/multiplicity of local taxes affecting income earinig activities in rural areas.
(iii) Aligning public investment with PRS goalk addition to contilued efforts at improving the
private investment climate, there is now a need to bring the development budget of the GoT in line with
the strategic public investmienit requirements to meet the PRS targets and support the growthi of private
sector contributioll to the economy and livelihoods.
(iv) Increasing efficiency of public service delivery: Building on processes that have been put in place
to enhance the strategic allocation and impact of public resources for poverty reductioll, increase the
efficiency of public resource use through measures to furthier strengtheni accountability mechaniisms
combined with capacity building at the local and central governimient level
l.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, inforiliationi about the key environimenital and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The macro and governanice programs are coulitrywide.
B. Clheck Environiental Classifi-cation: C (Not Required)
Comments There are no potential large scale, signilficanit and/or irreversible impacts directly related to the
operation PRSC I is a macro economic and budget reforn program. Environmenltal as well as social issues
may arise from specific project activities in several sectors that are considered beyond the scope of this
specific operation Many of these activities are part of parallel Bank sponsored programs, as well as other
donor supported initiatives, and there will be assurances made that provisions are in place for addressing any
significant environimiental arid social issues in accordance with Bank safeguard policies. A permanenit
environimenital specialist has recently been assigned to the COultlry office in Dar es Salaam assuring



3
ISDS
appropriate safeguard adherence by the Bank
Althoughl the original PRSP contained limited discussionis regarding environiment and poverty linkages,
subsequent forums and documlienlts have progressively expanded upOnI these issues A report by the Vice
Presidents office in 2001 higilighited the key Issues in integrating environment into the PRSP process The
PRSP progress report Issued in August 2001 added discussions about environimiental cross CUttilng issues.
More recently (July 2002), GOT in collaboration with UNDP organized a workshop for the formulation of a
program on the integrationi of environment into the PRSP process Another signilficant initiative is the
synergy among GOT, UNDP and DFID in sponsoring an international environmental poverty expert to wvork
in the poverty reduction program for a 3 year period beginninig in late 2002
Mainstreamiiing of environment into the PRSC process will be carried out by the Tanzania Vice-President's
Office (VPO) with the support of UNDP, the Bank, the donor community and other stakeholder groups.
This builds on the substanitial grounlidwork on the institutionial framework already done. It is envisaged that
the PRSC   process will operationalize highi priority activities already identified by the GOT for
mainstreaminiig environmenit into the PRS beginning with PRSC2. These include: increasing the knowledge
base on poverty - enviro-nmenit linkages and evaluationi of the impact of PRS interventionis on the
environment and poverty and government performance in meeting PRS targets. The goal of the latter activity
is to strengthen the existing Poverty Monitorinig System through linking it with environimiental informilatioln
systerns supported under the PRSC process. The key actions that will be carried out under the PRSC I and 2
cycle would include (a) Development of targets which are consistenit xvith sectoral aiid district plans and
identify and agree on timelinies and threslholds which will be used to evaluate PRS implemenitation, and (b)
Agreement on the action plan for development of an effective institutional framework for the integration and
management of the poverty-environiment indicators in the existing Poverty Monitoring System.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes * No     C TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            tC Yes * No    C; TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4 36)                                       C Yes * No     O' TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    ' Yes * No    C, TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11 03)                               ID Yes * No    I TBD
Indigenious Peoples (OD 4.20)                               C Yes * No     C TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No    ' TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4 37)                                  G Yes *No     D TBD
Projects in Interniationial Watervays (OP/BP/GP 7 50)        0 Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  C Yes * No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejuidice thefinal deternnination of the parties' claimis
on the dispzuted areas
Section 11 - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Sumnmary of Key Safegutard- Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
II D Ia Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significanit and/or irreversible impacts
The followving environmenltal issues are flagged at this stage to be addressed in future PRSC operations



4
ISDS
*   Actions for improvimg the business environmenit should take into account issues relating to
environmenital risk and liability. These issues may be addressed in specific sectors such as miniing,
agriculture, roads, or water. The PRSC can liaise withi relevant sectors to ensure that proper
monitorinig is carried out
*   Actions for improving the business environmenit also target legal reforms on property rights  In
enforcement of property rights, due regard should be given to existing uses of land and righits of
communIities to earn a livelihood.
*   A GOT process to decentralize public sector management and administration to the District level
posses enormous challenges for effective environmiental managemenit Assessmenit of provisions and
procedures that ensure adequate EA need to be documented
T1.D. Ib. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project componenit.
None
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
11 D.2 In light of 1, describe the proposed treatmenit of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable
Il.D 3 Describe arrangemenit for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Although PRSCI has no potential large scale, significant, and/or irreversible impacts directly related to
this operation, strengthieniing Tanizanila's institutionial capacity to carry out environmental assessments will
be an objective during PRSCI implemenitationi to ensure that appropriate mechanisms are in place that
will allow future PRSCs to address sectoral issues. Fulidiig for such activities is provided through a
PHIRD grant as well as support from other donors such as UNDP in addition to government's own
resources. Specific use of Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEA) will be made for sectors included
In future PRSCs
A continuilng program by the donor commun1ity Is supporting environmental management and regulation
at the central government level as well as at several key sectors The National Environmenit Managemenit
CouLIcil and the Department of Environimienit have been attempting to harmonize their respective roles
and responsibilities. Environimilenital legislation is pendinig approval. ETA capacity bulilding Is supported
through government, paristatal, NGO and donor involvement
II.D 4 Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechaniisms for consultationi and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The poverty reduction program of GOT is an inclusive stakeholder consultative process and will continue
to be so throughout the PRSC programming.
E. Safegumards Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply
Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant techniical and institutionial risks
in managemenlt of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable



5
ISDS
[X] S3. -No safeguard Issues
[ ] SF. - Fianicial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven developmenit or
similar projects whichi require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues



6
ISDS
F. Disclosiure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Mancagem?ient Plan.       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoSlhop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Franiework                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framnework:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoSlhop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Managenment Plan.                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoSlhop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to lnfoShlop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Benno J. Ndulu                              03/06/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists I  Kennetlh M. Green/Personi/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Indumathie V. Hewawasamil/Persoin/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Binghanm                    03/20/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Frederick Kilby                             03/20/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
E A  Rr       , FEE84C..(  |   E  MAP ------- I 



