Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3772-1 TA 
GRANT NUMBER H040 TA 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Financing Agreement
 
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 30, 2004 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3772-1 TA 
GRANT NUMBER H040 TA 
(Amendment) 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT
 
Agreement, dated June 30, 2004, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Financing Agreement (Poverty Reduction Support Credit) dated June 23, 
2003 (the Development Financing Agreement), for the purpose of supporting a program 
to eradicate poverty as described in Recital (A) of the Development Financing Agreement 
(the Program); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in the support of the Program during its execution by increasing the amount 
made available under the Development Financing Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 130,000); 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance, representing the FY2004 allocation under the 
Association’s Fifth Dimension Program established in 1988, to the Borrower upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Financing Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Financing Agreement is amended 
by: 
 
(a) 
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (d) by a semicolon and 
adding the word “and” after such semicolon ; and 
 
(b) 
adding the following paragraph (e) reading: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
“(e) 
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Financing Agreement (Poverty Reduction Support Credit) between 
the Borrower and the Association, dated June 23, 2003.” 
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Financing Agreement is modified 
to read: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Financing 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-three 
million one hundred thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 73,130,000) 
(the Credit), which includes: (i) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy-three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 73,000,000) 
(the Initial Credit); and (ii) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent 
to one hundred thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 130,000) (the 
Additional Credit). 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,400,000) (the 
Grant).” 
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
Paragraph (a) is amended to read: 
 
“(a) 
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit 
Account in support of the Program.” 
 
(b) 
A new paragraph (d) is added to read as follows: 
 
“(d)  
After a date twelve months (or such later date as the Association 
shall establish and promptly notify to the Borrower) from the date of the 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit 
Account in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Additional Credit.  At any time after such date, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Additional Credit from the Credit Account or any part thereof.” 
 
Section 1.04. In Section 2.03, the Closing Date is amended to read  “June 30, 2005.” 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.05. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Financing 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “canceled” the following proviso
:
“; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional Credit shall 
accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement.” 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, 
on behalf of the Borrower that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development 
Financing Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Agreement had not been executed. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By:  /s/  Andrew Daraja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By:  /s/  Gerard Byam 
Authorized Representative 
 
