Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5742 
Operation Name 
Sierra Leone: Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit 
(GRGC-3) -  Supplemental Financing under pilot IDA Crisis 
Response Window 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%); General public administration 
sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P121056 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
May 13, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 14, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
June 8, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The rapid progress that Sierra Leone has made on many fronts since the end of the war in 
January 2002 is in some jeopardy due to the effects of the global economic slowdown.  
Moreover, a significant effort will be required to raise per-capita incomes above peak pre-war 
levels and sharply reduce poverty.  Macroeconomic performance through 2009 has been 
consistently strong, bringing rapid growth and steadily declining fiscal deficits despite many 
ongoing challenges.  The quality of public financial management has steadily improved.  Public 
service delivery resumed quickly in many sectors, most notably in primary education.  An 
emphasis on decentralization was underscored in 2004 through the first local government 
elections in over 30 years and the re-establishment of local governments.  The first full Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) was issued in February 2005.  These achievements helped 
Sierra Leone gain access to substantial debt relief in December 2006 via the HIPC Completion 
Point and Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative.  General elections in 2007 resulted in a new 
government and adoption of a second PRSP in 2009. 
 
The proposed operation takes place at a challenging time, as the Sierra Leonean authorities deal 
with an unfavorable global environment, which sharply contrast with its generally positive post-
conflict prospects.  The global economic down-turn weakened economic performance in 2009 
and future prospects and has put pressure on the fiscal position.  The mining sector has been 
particularly hard hit and remittance inflows which declined in 2009 face an uncertain future.  
Real GDP growth slowed to 4 percent. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The supplemental credit will help address the financing gap that has emerged as a result of the 
effects of the global economic and financial crisis and is thus critical to achieving the 
development objectives of the Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit which supports 
government efforts to maintain and deepen growth and structural reforms in the transition from 
Page  2
post-conflict recovery.  Specific objectives in this context are to: (i) preserve fiscal space for 
poverty reduction; (ii) promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public 
resources; and (iii) improve the investment climate through provision of electricity in a fiscally 
sustainable manner.  The operation is fully consistent with the new Joint Country Assistance 
Strategy covering FY10-13 and its pillar to promote inclusive growth. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Despite the good progress made by the country in the post-conflict period its access to capital for 
development finance remains constrained to a small number of development partners.  The Bank 
is one of those partners and is one of the only sources of financing available to the country.  
Bank financing is justified by the maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework 
despite challenging circumstances and consistent progress in strengthening public financial 
management which is also underpinned by a sound framework. 
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
7 
 Total 
7 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this operation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance. To facilitate program implementation and the coordination of activities, the government 
has appointed an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance and 
Economic Development.  This Committee is composed of key Ministers and the Governor of the 
BSL.  The Steering Committee will be assisted by a Technical Committee comprising high level 
staff from various line ministries and the BSL.  The Technical Committee will be chaired by the 
Financial Secretary and will be responsible for coordinating the activities of all government 
agencies involved in program implementation.  These arrangements are the same as for the Third 
Governance Reform and Growth Credit. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
By supporting the implementation of the Government’s overall development program and its 
poverty reduction strategy this operation will contribute to poverty reduction and the 
maintenance of economic growth.   
The reform program faces the following risks which if they materialize could disrupt it: 
(a) 
Macroeconomic risks from exogenous shocks
 which could arise due to a prolonged global 
recession, leading to further deterioration in the terms of trade.  Government track record 
provides comfort in this regard as does the ongoing IMF program and related dialogue.  The 
Bank is also monitoring closely; (b) 
Financing risk
 due to failure to secure adequate donor 
financing for the 2010 budget.  This is mitigated by Government’s established track record of 
satisfactory macroeconomic performance, and ongoing intensive donor dialogue on the budget 
and economic development; (c) 
Fiduciary risk due to weak institutional capacity 
could 
Page  3
undermine the reform program.  Mitigated by government and donor efforts to build capacity 
and strengthen the fiduciary environment. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed Supplemental Financing to the Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit is 
expected to have a significant and positive impact on poverty reduction, primarily because it will 
contribute to closing the financing gap that has emerged for 2010.  In addition recent policy 
initiatives by the Government will also have a significant and positive impact on the poor and on 
vulnerable groups.  The policies supported under the operation aim at protecting pro-poor growth 
and poverty reduction objectives.  
To the extent that the Government’s 2010 program has the 
expected impact of stimulating growth, creating additional employment opportunities, and 
extending the reach of critical health services, it would protect the objectives of the second PRSP 
and have a positive impact on the poor and on vulnerable groups. 
The policies and actions supported by the Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit and this 
proposed supplemental financing are not likely to have any significant impact on the 
environment, natural resources and forests.  The policies and actions supported under these two 
operations address primarily institutional reforms, none of which entails any environmental 
impact.  Government’s 2010 budget does, however, include investments in basic infrastructure 
and agriculture that may have some environmental effects.  Most of these additional investments 
would, however, be financed by development partners, each with their own environmental 
requirements. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Cyrus P. Talati 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-7375 
Fax: (202) 614-7375 
Email: Ctalati@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
