Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5740 
Operation Name 
Sierra Leone: Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit 
(GRGC-3) -  Supplemental Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%); General public administration 
sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P121056 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
May 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 18, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 8, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Sierra Leone’s economic performance has been adversely affected by the global economic downturn.  
As in many African countries the principal transmission channel has been through the real sector 
affecting exports, remittances and GDP growth.  Lower GDP growth in turn has led to reduced 
government revenues.  Precise measurement and quantification of the direct effects of the global 
downturn is, however, not clear-cut due in part to the weak statistical base and also owing to the fact that 
government policy was in fact successful in partially mitigating the effects of the downturn on the 
domestic economy. 
Falling diamond prices in late 2008 saw export earnings from that source plummet.  The net result was a 
5.2 percent reduction in the U.S. dollar value of overall exports for 2008.  The collapse of diamond 
prices continued into 2009, with diamond export prices falling at an average rate of 8 percent per month, 
between January and June, before stabilizing in the second half of the year. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The supplemental credit will help address the financing gap that has emerged as a result of the effects of 
the global economic and financial crisis and is thus critical to achieving the development objectives of 
the Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit which supports government efforts to maintain and 
deepen growth and structural reforms in the transition from post-conflict recovery.  Specific objectives 
in this context are to: (i) preserve fiscal space for poverty reduction; (ii) promote efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in the use of public resources; and (iii) improve the investment climate 
through provision of electricity in a fiscally sustainable manner.  The operation is fully consistent with 
the new Joint Country Assistance Strategy covering FY10-13 and its pillar to promote inclusive growth. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit (GRGC-3) in the amount of SDR6.4 million 
(US$10 million equivalent) to the Government of Sierra Leone was approved by the Board on 
November 24, 2009 to support implementation of the country’s second Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper (PRSP-2) in the context of a multi-donor budget support framework.  This single tranche credit is 
Page  2
the third in a programmatic series of three Development Policy Operations (DPOs) undertaken by the 
World Bank and is consistent with the Joint Country Assistance Strategy. 
 
At the time the GRGC-3 was negotiated in late 2009, the international financial and economic crisis had 
already adversely affected Sierra Leone’s economic performance, although the full extent of this was 
unclear.  Government had already responded in 2009 through programs to assist the hardest hit.  For 
2010, government plans call for an economic stimulus program to be effected through increased public 
expenditures with a primary focus on infrastructure spending, mainly for roads and a bold new social 
agenda to improve health outcomes for the most vulnerable. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The policies and actions supported by the GRGC-3 grant and this proposed supplemental financing are 
not likely to have any significant impact on the environment, natural resources and forests.  The policies 
and actions supported under the GRGC-3 and the supplemental financing address primarily institutional 
reforms, none of which entails any environmental impact.  Government’s 2010 budget does, however, 
include investments in basic infrastructure and agriculture that may have some environmental effects.  
Most of these additional investments, should they materialize, would be financed by development 
partners, each with their own environmental requirements. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
7 
 Total 
7 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Cyrus P. Talati 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-7375 
Fax: (202) 614-7375 
Email: Ctalati@worldbank.org
 
