                                            Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                Report No. 54340-SL




                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                             PILOT CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW

                                     PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                     FOR A PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4.7 MILLION

                               (US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                              FOR THE

                THIRD GOVERNANCE REFORM AND GROWTH CREDIT



                                             May 25,2010



Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                   CURRENCY    EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 20,20 10)
                  Currency Unit = Leone
                         US$1 = Le3,925
                          FISCAL  YEAR
                     January 1 - December 3 1


                       ABBREVIATIONS


BSL      Bank of Sierra Leone
CRW      Crisis Response Window
DfID     Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DPO      Development Policy Operation
EC       European Commission
ECF      Extended Credit Facility
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GRGC-3   Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit
GST      Goods and Services Tax
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MOFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
NPL      Nonperforming Loans
NR4      National Revenue Authority
PRSP-2   Second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
U.K.     United Kingdom
VAT      Value-added Tax




                 Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
               Country Director:       Ishac Diwan
                Sector Director:       Sudhir Shetty
         Acting Sector Manager:        Philip English
            Task Team Leaders:         Douglas Addison
                                       Cvrus Talati




                                   i
                                                                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                     SIERRA LEONE

                                    SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING FOR THE
                             THIRD GOVERNANCE REFORM AND GROWTH CREDIT

                                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS


    CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                            ................................................................................................ ...            111

    1   .   BACKGROUND .................................................................................................................................    1
    2   .   IMPACT OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS ......................................................................                                     1
    3.      GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS ................                                                                            3
    4.      BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY............................................................................................. 5
    5   .   THE REFORM PROGRAM: AN UPDATE .................................................................................... 6
    6.      RATIONALE FOR PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING.............................................                                                      7
    7.      IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .....................................................................................                               8
              .      ........................................................................................................................................
            A BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                     8
             .                              ................................................................................
            B TERMS THE SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING
                  OF                                                                                                                                          8
            C. FIDUCIARYASPECTS ...................................................................................................................... 8
            D. FUNDSFLOW AUDITING
                          AND                 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING                                                        .............9
            E. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ..................................................................................................... 9
             .
            F ENVIRONMENTAL    .........................................................................................................
                         ASPECTS                                                                                                                                          10
            G. RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
                                       .....................................................................................................                              10


    Tables
    Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators. 2008-12        ..........................................................................................                         2
    Table 4.1:        Sierra Leone: Additional Financing Gap, 2010 .....................................................................                                  6


    .
    Boxes
    Box 3.1: Ongoing Revenue Reforms                          .........................................................................................................   5


    Annexes
    Annex 1: Fund Relations Note      ................................................................................................................                    12
    Annex 2: Sierra Leone at a Glance         .........................................................................................................                   15
    Annex 3:        Millenium Development Goals ...............................................................................................                           17
    Annex 4:        Map Number IBRD 33478 ......................................................................................................                          18



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                               SIERRA LEONE
                              SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING
                    THIRD GOVERNANCE REFORM AND GROWTH CREDIT
                                CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

I Borrower:                Republic of Sierra Leone.

1   Implementing
    Agency:
                           Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED).
                           SDR4.7 million (US$7.0 million equivalent) in pilot Crisis Response Window
    Amount:                resources.
                           IDA credit terms, forty year maturity including a grace period of ten years.
                           Single tranche supplemental financing.
    Main Policy Areas:     Public Financial Management, Public Sector Reform, Decentralization, Energy.
                           Same as for Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit: deviations in pro-poor
                           spending relative to the deviations in non-pro-poor spending; number of
                           procurement plans produced by public entities for MOFED approval and share of
    Key Outcome            procurement conducted through open competition; ability to verify selected payroll
    Indicators:            entries; share of budgetary funds transferred to local councils in total discretionary
                           non-salary, non-interest recurrent spending; public provision of electricity to
                           Freetown in megawatts, and National Power Authority sales collection.
                           The supplemental credit will help address the financing gap that has emerged as a
                           result of the effects of the global economic and financial crisis and is thus critical to
                           achieving the development objectives of the Third Governance Reform and Growth
    Program                Credit which supports government efforts to maintain and deepen growth and
    Development            structural reforms in the transition from post-conflict recovery. Specific objectives
    Objectives and         in this context are to: (i) preserve fiscal space for poverty reduction; (ii) promote
    Contribution to CAS:   efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources; and
                           (iii) improve the investment climate through provision of electricity in a fiscally
                           sustainable manner. The operation is fully consistent with the new Joint Country
                           Assistance Strategy covering FY 10-13 and its pillar to promote inclusive growth.
                           The overall reform program is being supported by the IMF, African Development
    Partnerships:          Bank, U.K., and the European Commission.
                           The reform program faces a number of risks which could disrupt it:
                                Macroeconomic risksffom exogenous shocks due to a prolonged global
                                recession, leading to deterioration in the terms of trade or the incurring of
                                unavoidable expenditures from a natural disaster. Government track record
                                provides comfort in this regard on the former as does the ongoing IMF program
                                and related dialogue. Bank is also monitoring closely.
                                Financing risk due to failure to secure adequate donor financing for 20 10
                                budget. Mitigated by Government track record of satisfactory macroeconomic
                                performance, and intensive donor dialogue on the budget.
                                Fiduciary risk due to weak institutional capacity could undermine the reform
                                program. Mitigated by government and donor efforts to build capacity and
                                strengthen the fiduciary environment.
I Operation ID:            PI21056

                                                        iii
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                   SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING DOCUMENT
          FOR THE THIRD GOVERNANCE REFORM AND GROWTH CREDIT
                     TO THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE



                                         1. BACKGROUND

1.1    The Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit (GRGC-3)? in the amount of
SDR6.4 million (US$10 million equivalent) to the Republic of Sierra Leone was approved by the
Board on November 24,2009, to support implementation of the country?s Second Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-2) in the context of a multi-donor budget support framework.
This single tranche credit is the third in a programmatic series of three Development Policy
Operations (DPOs) undertaken by the World Bank and is consistent with the Joint Country
Assistance Strategy.2

1.2      At the time the GRGC-3 was negotiated in late 2009, the international financial and
economic crisis had already adversely affected Sierra Leone?s economic performance, although
the full extent of this was unclear. Government had already responded in 2009 through programs
to assist the hardest hit. For 2010, government plans call for an economic stimulus program to
be effected through increased public expenditures with a primary focus on infrastructure
spending, mainly for roads and a bold new social agenda to improve health outcomes and
provide a cushion for the most vulnerable.

1.3    A more complete picture about the effects of the global economic and financial crisis on
economic performance in 2008 and 2009 is now available. Reduced export demand and
remittances led to a slowdown in domestic growth which in turn has lowered the revenue base.
Unexpected spending needs in 2009 resulted in deferred investments and generated costs for the
2010 Budget which appears underfinanced by the equivalent of about 1.2 percent of GDP, or
about US$27.5 million. The authorities are therefore seeking additional financing resources to
help close the larger than anticipated gap to protect growth and ensure that priority expenditures
under the PRSP-2 are maintained.

                     2. IMPACT OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS

2.1    Sierra Leone?s economic performance has been adversely affected by the global
economic downturn. As in a number of Afiican countries the principal transmission channel
has been through the real sector affecting exports, remittances and GDP growth. Lower GDP
growth in turn has led to reduced government revenues. Precise measurement and quantification
of the direct effects of the global downturn is, however, not clear-cut due in part to the weak


 Sierra Leone: Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit, Report no. 51 10-SL, World Bank, 2009.
? Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone, IDA, IFC and African Development Bank,
 Joint
Report no. 52297-SL, World Bank, 2010. The strategy was discussed by the World Bank Board on April 6,2010.

                                                     1
statistical base and also owing to the fact that government policy was in fact successful in
partially mitigating the effects of the downturn on the domestic economy.
2.2     Falling diamond prices in late 2008 saw export earnings from that source plummet.
The net result was a 5.2 percent reduction in the U.S. dollar value of overall exports for 2008
(Table 2.1).3 The collapse of diamond prices continued into 2009, with diamond export prices
falling at an average rate of 8 percent per month, between January and June, before stabilizing in
the second half of the year while the share of diamonds in total exports slipped another
10 percentage points. The deterioration was not confined to diamonds but extended to other
important mining exports including bauxite and rutile which in 2009 experienced declines in
world prices and export volumes.
                               Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators, 2008-12

                                                     2008         2009       2010        201 1        2012
                                                                 Prelim.   Projected   Projected    Projected

              Real GDP Growth (%)                      5.5         4.0        4.8         5.5          6.0
              Consumer Price Inflation (%, e.0.p.)    12.2        10.8       12.5         9.5          8.0
              Terms of Trade (YOChange)               -2.5        -8.3        5.7         4.3          2.8

              Exports of Goods (US$ % chg.)           -5.2         3.9       25.9        12.5         11.5
              Imports G&NFS (US$ % chg.)              24.8        -2.6       14.7        11.9         10.7
              Current Account (YOGDP)                -11.7        -8.4       -9.0        -9.0         -9.1

              Revenue and Grants (% GDP)              16.0        19.5       19.4        18.8         20.6
              - Revenue                               11.5        11.7       12.4        12.9         13.7
              - Grants                                 4.5         7.8        7.0         5.9          6.9

              Expenditures (YOGDP)                   20.7         22.7       23.3        23.6         24.0
              - Recurrent                            14.8         15.5       15.1        15.1         15.0
              - Development and Net Lending           5.9          7.2        8.2         8.5          9.0

              Overall Fiscal Balance (YO
                                       GDP)           -4.7        -3.2       -3.9        -4.7         -3.5


              Source: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, IMF and Bank staff estimates.


2.3     A sharp increase in fuel imports for the emergency power supply project more than
offset the steep decline in international oil and rice prices that occurred over the second
half of 2008. As a result the U.S. dollar value of imports increased by 24.8 percent in 2008. In
the event, growing pressure on the balance of payments led to a 28 percent depreciation of the
Leone vis-&vis the U.S. dollar in 2009. In turn, imports dropped in 2009 (by 2.6 percent in U.S.
dollar terms), under the influence of lower demand (due notably to the phasing down of the
emergency power project and the scaling back of mining production) and worsening relative

  The share of diamonds in total exports which had been around 80 percent in the middle of the decade fell to
around 46 percent in 2008.

                                                             2
prices, exchange rates and terms of trade. Compounded with a slight rebound in exports, the
contraction of imports in 2009 entailed a reduction in the current account deficit, from
1 1.7 percent of GDP in 2008 to 8.4 percent in 2009.
2.4     Remittances from abroad which have played a critical safety net role declined
significantly in 2009, although the weak data base for these prevents precise estimation of
the extent of declines4 A lower bound estimate of the fall in remittances suggests that they
declined by at least 10 percent in 2009. The drop in diamond prices also trickled down to
adversely affect the incomes of small scale artisanal producers. Taken together the impact on
household and personal disposable incomes of falling diamond prices and reduced remittances
cannot be overstated.
2.5     Real growth in 2009 was reduced by as much as 1.5 percentage points as a result of
lower exports and remittances. GDP growth is estimated to have declined to 4.0 percent in
2009 (that is, approximately 1.5 percent in per capita terms) whereas the expectation and forecast
was for an annual increase of 5.5 percent in real terms. Lower export demand and remittances,
and deteriorating terms of trade are believed to have played an important role in the deceleration
of economic activity in 2008 and 2009. In contrast, GDP growth averaged 7.0 percent per year
over the period 2005-07.

        3. GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS

3.1     Government responded to the emerging effects of the global downturn in 2009
through a number of channels designed to provide a cushion against economic hardship.
The first of these focused on protecting the poor and vulnerable. To that end, working with
development partners, it prepared and implemented a cash-for-work program as well as a food-
for-work program. It also decided not to pass through the full effects of the increase in
international fuel prices to domestic consumers despite significantly increasing the fuel excise
tax in the second half of the year to recoup lower than expected revenues.
3.2     Expenditure in 2009 came under pressure from unanticipated spending needs
including additional costs associated with the delayed completion of the Bumbuna hydro-electric
power plant (which necessitated continued fuel imports), an unbudgeted deployment of Sierra
Leonean forces to the UN mission in D a r k , and additional counterpart funds to key road
projects. Recurrent spending was an estimated 15.5 percent of GDP, somewhat over the budget
target of 14.8 percent of GDP while development expenditures were 7.2percent of GDP in
keeping with the budget target.
3.3      Despite lower economic growth, the revenue performance in 2009 was protected by
the sharp increase in import duty collection, due to the currency depreciation. Total
estimated revenues at 11.7 percent of GDP were slightly higher than in 2008 (1 1.5 percent) but
still remained 0.5 percent of GDP lower than the original target. The planned introduction of a
Goods and Services Tax (GST) was deferred until 2010, in the face of its likely negative impact
on domestic consumption and economic activity in the midst of ongoing economic crisis.


  Discussions with the authorities and banks as well as anecdotal evidence all point to a significant decline in
remittances in 2009 as a result of the crisis.

                                                           3
3.4    The overall fiscal balance was held to -3.2 percent of GDP in 2009 with the help of
higher than programmed grants, and some accumulation of arrears. Donor grants increased
by 3.2percentage points of GDP in 2009, providing the fiscal space needed to increase both
recurrent and development expenditures. In protecting consumers from the effects of rising
global oil prices, the Government also accumulated arrears vis-h-vis domestic fuel distributors
estimated at 0.4 percent of GDP, which it now intends to clear in 2010.
3.5      The protracted effects of the global crisis and slowdown are constraining the
Government's ability to finance its program supported under the Governance Reform and
Growth series. For 2010, the Government decided to undertake stimulus spending in order to
restore the growth trajectory to pre-global downturn levels and increase employment. This is to
be done by way of accelerated spending, primarily on infrastructure, as reflected in the budgeted
increase in development expenditures, from 7.2 percent of GDP in 2009 to 8.2 percent in 2010,
8.5 percent in 201 1 and 9.0 percent in 2012. The macroeconomic framework for 2010-12
acknowledges the lasting impact of the global recession, as evidenced by the conservative GDP
growth assumptions retained and the very progressive return to the pre-crisis growth trajectory.
It is estimated that Sierra Leone needs sustained annual growth above 6 percent in order to make
a significant dent in the incidence of poverty.
3.6     The extent of the global crisis on the poor and vulnerable was also largely
unforeseen. For example, with the vast majority of the country's diamond production in the
hands of small-scale artisanal miners, the sharp decline in diamond exports noted above would
have had a profound adverse effect on household incomes. Thus amid concerns about the impact
of the economic slowdown on household welfare and with Sierra Leone classified by the UN as
the world's least developed country5, the Government also plans to increase social spending in
2010 to protect the poor and vulnerable. Per capita income is lower today than it was in the
1960s and with nearly 70 percent of the population living below the poverty line in 2007, the
country is not expected to attain any of the Millennium Development Goals (Annex 3) by 2015.
Government announced an initiative in 2009 to provide a package of basic health services to the
most vulnerable-pregnant and lactating mothers and children under the age of five years-to be
implemented in 2010. Poverty related expenditures are expected to be maintained at about
5 percent of GDP in 2010.
3.7      Government recognizes the complexity of the undertaking and the challenges that it
will face, over and above issues of cost, financing and sustainability. These challenges
include the ability of the health system to scale up and respond to an expected increase in
demand. Issues including adequacy of human resources, physical and institutional infrastructure
and availability of pharmaceuticals are all receiving intense attention. The Bank and other
development partners have provided technical assistance to help government prepare and plan
for this important initiative which it intends to implement commencing in May 20 10.
3.8    Improved revenue performance is planned for 2010 due to greater administrative
effort, base broadening, introduction of the GST and a reduction in granting of
discretionary exemptions. As a result mainly of revenue reforms, revenues are expected to rise
to about 12.4 percent of GDP (Box 3.1). On the expenditure side the wage bill will increase by
about 0.4 percent of GDP on account of pay increases for health workers in connection with the

'Sierra Leone placed at the bottom of the rankings of the U.N. Human Development Index, 2008.
                                                      4
new health care initiative. Development expenditures will also go up as planned due to
accelerated capital spending on infrastructure, by up to 1 percent of GDP to an estimated
8 percent of GDP. Taken together this will give rise to a deficit equivalent to about 4 percent of
GDP in 2010.
                                 Box 3.1: Ongoing Revenue Reforms

 Sierra Leone's revenue effort, at just over 11 percent of GDP, is among the lowest in the world. To improve
 this, a number of tax policy reforms are underway or planned at the National Revenue Authority (NU)
 including the introduction of a value-added tax (GST) in early 2010. Off-budget revenues collected by some
 ministries are to be brought into the consolidated revenue fund. An effort is also being made to make taxation
 less of a burden to f m s that would otherwise remain outside the formal economy. Other policy reforms include
 the introduction of self-assessment for some categories of tax payers, the development of a Small Taxpayer
 Regime, customs law reform, and a study on the reform of tax incentives. MOFED plans to initiate
 implementation of the Integrated Financial Management Information System revenue module and is considering
 strengthening its capacity to formulate tax policy.
 Administrative changes at NRA include the creation of a Large Taxpayer Unit in 2008, the introduction of
 taxpayer identification numbers in 2009, customs administration, improving taxpayer education and outreach,
 and building tax administration capacity in general. These efforts are being supported by a number of
 development partners including the Commonwealth Secretariat, the United Kingdom's Department for
 International Development (Dff D), Investment Climate Advisory Services, and the World Bank.


3.9     Accordingly, the 2010 budget submitted to Parliament in late November 2009
foresees a deficit of approximately 3.9 percent of GDP. The 2010 budget is, however, under-
financed by the equivalent of about 1.2 percent of GDP, about US$27.5 million, given the
incomplete available information at the time of budget preparation around mid-2009. As noted,
the gap has emerged mainly due to (a) the effect of lower than anticipated growth in the revenue
base in 2009 resulting from the economic slowdown, which will carry over to 2010; (b) higher
spending needs in 2010 arising from the need to pay for the implicit subsidy on fuel in 2009; and
(c) weaknesses in budget planning and preparation which resulted in incomplete expenditure
identification and inability to secure adequate donor financing ex ante.

                             4. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY

4.1     The proposed supplemental financing responds to Government's need for additional
resources to close the financing gap in 2010, to protect growth and maintain priority
expenditures under the PRSP-2. Prior to these developments the World Bank had
programmed a total of US$12 million in regular IDA resources for 2010. This included
US$7 million in budget support resources and US$5 million for a youth employment project.
Given the unfolding situation with respect to the economic slowdown experienced by Sierra
Leone as a result of the global downturn, the Bank has decided to utilize resources from the IDA
pilot Crisis Response Window (CRW) to provide additional budget support through this proposed
supplement to the GRGC-3 in the amount of US$7 million and to scale-up the youth
employment project to US$20million. Thus a total of US$14million is planned in budget
support for 2010, and US$20 million in projects.
4.2    Other development partners have also come forward and committed to provide
additional financing over and above what they had originally programmed for Sierra
                                                       5
Leone in 2010, in order to help close the remaining financing gap and fully finance the
budget. Principal among them are the European Commission (EC) which has indicated that it
will provide a second round of resources from its Vulnerability-FLEX facility and the U.K.'s
DffD which has also agreed to provide additional resources. Together with the proposed
Supplemental Financing from the IDA pilot CRW, this should be adequate to close the additional
financing gap estimated for 2010 (Table 4.1).
                            Table 4.1: Additional Financing Gap, 2O1Ob
                                          (US$ million)

    Financing; Gap                                                       27.5
    European Commission                                                  13.0
    U.K. Department for International Development                         7.5
    IDA pilot CRW Supplemental Financing                                  7.0

     Amounts are tentative.
    /a
    Source: Bank staff estimates



                          5. THE REFORM PROGRAM: AN UPDATE
5.1     The GRGC-3 is the third in a programmatic series of three DPOs that was fully disbursed
in December 2009 following the completion of all prior actions. The program document for the
GRGC-3 includes envisaged policy measures for bringing forward a new series of DPOs to the
Board of Executive Directors planned for 2010, in addition to the normal requirement for
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework and continued improvement in
strengthening fiduciary arrangements. A summary of recent progress is provided below.
5.2     A number of policy areas that could form the basis of the next budget support operation
planned for 2010, were discussed with the Government. Government continues to make good
overall progress in implementing its development program including undertaking to implement
future reforms in several areas. These include establishment of a legislative framework for
public debt management that will provide the basis for a comprehensive and modern approach to
debt management. In a bid to rationalize and strengthen public investment management it has
decided to strengthen the legal and institutional framework governing public investment. In
order to improve the environment for private investment the Government is also committed to
establishing a regulatory framework for the formation of public-private partnerships. Efforts to
improve public procurement include expanding its coverage in public entities and other measures
to strengthen and formalize procurement capacity. To curtail the proliferation of discretionary
 a
t x exemptions and increase the transparency and accountability of exemption decisions, it is
preparing a legislative framework to guide such decisions. To kick-off medium term reforms in
the power sector it has made a decision to transition to an efficiency-adjusted cost-based tariff
formula for the provision of electric power. Finally, to underscore its commitment to
transparency it has prepared for enactment a Freedom of Information Act.
5.3   Macroeconomic framework: the Fifth Review of the IMF Extended Credit Facility
(ECF) was successfully concluded in December 2009. Program performance in the first half of
2009 was assessed as satisfactory. All end-June quantitative performance criteria were met, as

                                                6
were all end-June structural benchmarks, although one with a delay. One of the two structural
benchmarks for September 2009 was met, while the other was missed because of delays in
revising the underlying legislation. Discussions under the sixth and final review of the ECF and
on a three-year successor program were recently concluded ad referendum with the IMF.
5.4    Fiduciary arrangements: The fiduciary arrangements outlined in the GRGC-3 will
apply. The Government continues to deepen its ongoing program of public financial
management reforms at both central and local levels, with support from the new Integrated
Public Financial Management Reform Program formally launched in February 20 10.


            6. RATIONALE FOR PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

6.1     Unanticipated financing need. The request for supplemental financing is consistent
with OP 8.60. The protracted nature and impact of the global economic crisis has created an
unanticipated financing gap which could jeopardize the GRGC-3 and the Government's broader
reform program. The planned stimulus spending will have a substantial effect on the budget.
Compounding these effects revenue performance has been lower than anticipated also due to the
effects of the global recession. The on-going international economic downturn represents an
exceptional external shock beyond the control of the authorities, threatening original program
objectives for 2010 absent a government response. The IMF and World Bank have evaluated the
program proposed by the authorities and consider it adequate.
6.2     The program remains broadly on track and government commitment is firm.
Implementation of the program supported under GRGC-3 has proceeded as anticipated and
remains on track with government implementing agreed structural reforms. As noted above it
has also maintained an adequate macroeconomic framework throughout and is making efforts to
improve fiduciary arrangements. Government commitment is measured by the successful
completion of two preceding annual development policy operations and three prior to that. To
date, government remains in compliance with all the covenants embedded in the Legal
Agreement for the financing of the GRGC-3.6

6.3     The Borrower is unable to obtain sufficient funds from other lenders on reasonable
terms and in a reasonable time. The Government is actively seeking additional financing to
cover the financing gap and as noted above, has received some commitments with regard to
additional financing with discussions still ongoing with respect to others. The Supplemental
Financing is therefore a critical element to close the fiscal gap due to lower budget revenues than
originally programmed and the need for stimulus spending. Accessing non-concessional external
financing is not a viable option as it would be inconsistent with the recommendations of the most
recent debt sustainability analysis as well as the program agreed with the IMF.

6.4     The time available is too short to process a freestanding Bank operation. The time
required for preparation of a freestanding Bank operation would be so lengthy as to severely
disrupt government plans for its 2010 stimulus program. Thus Bank assistance needs to be rapid
to be timely, given the long lead times required for successful implementation of infrastructure

                                               December 3,2009, between the Republic of Sierra Leone and
  Financing Agreement for Credit Number 4661-SL,
the Association.

                                                    7
and public works. Thus, expedited IDA pilot CRW procedures are proposed to respond quickly
to the urgent needs of the country generated by the on-going economic downturn.

                        7. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

                                          A. BENEFITS
7.1      The proposed supplemental financing will assist the authorities in pursuing the objectives
for 2010 as set out in the GRGC-3 operation, focusing on the consolidation of recent
improvements in economic management that could otherwise be reversed and to reduce
macroeconomic risks, and the improvement of the quality of public sector administration and
institutions where policies and outcomes are lagging relative to other countries.
7.2    The proposed supplement will also help close the financing gap in 2010, which resulted
from the need to maintain expenditure levels consistent with government's planned stimulus
package and its poverty reduction objectives despite the impact of the international economic
slowdown.

                         B. TERMS THE SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING
                                OF

7.3     The borrower is the Republic of Sierra Leone and this Supplemental Financing is a
single-tranche credit for US$7 million equivalent that would be made available upon credit
effectiveness, so long as the borrower continues to make satisfactory progress with respect to
implementing its program supported under the original GRGC-3 DPO and continues to maintain
a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework. No other conditions, except for the standard
requirement for a legal opinion will apply to this Supplemental Financing. The closing date for
the Supplemental Financing is June 30,201 1. The proposed supplemental financing continues to
support the full program of actions set out in the program document for GRGC-3.

                                               ASPECTS
                                    C. FIDUCIARY

7.4      The fiduciary arrangements outlined in the GRGC-3 DPO, which rely on government
systems and institutions, will continue to apply for this supplemental financing in light of both a
specific review of fiduciary arrangements undertaken for the GRGC-3 and various improvements
in the fiduciary environment noted below.
7.5     The Government has made consistent progress in strengthening its public financial
management framework and systems. It implemented recommendations of the 2002 Country
Financial Accountability Assessment supported by IDA through the Institutional Reform and
Capacity Building Project and technical assistance provided by the African Development Bank,
DfID and the EC. This resulted in: establishment of the legal and regulatory framework for
budgeting, accountability, and procurement; implementation of a financial management
information system; clearance of the backlog of annual financial statements; and establishment
of basic budgeting, procurement, and accounting procedures in local councils.
7.6     Subsequently the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability assessment conducted
in early 2007 found Sierra Leone's performance to be similar to the average for other countries
in the region. Since then, the timeliness of financial statements and audit reports has improved

                                                8
further, although major weaknesses remain with respect to budget management and
transparency. To build on the progress to date and to tackle these challenges, the Government
has prepared a comprehensive program of public financial management reforms which is being
implemented through the Integrated Public Financial Management Reform Project. Financial
support to the tune of US$20.9 million is being provided for this effort through a pooled
financing arrangement which brings together IDA, DffD and the EC. The Government aims to
sustainably improve the credibility, control, and transparency of fiscal and budget management.
7.7    In terms of the foreign exchange environment, the IMF conducted a safeguards
assessment of the Bank of Sierra Leone in 2002 and 2006. The latter showed significant
progress in implementing recommendations of the 2002 assessment and a follow-up report in
2009 indicates continued progress including, adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards, strengthening of internal audit and increased capitalization of the bank.

           FLOW AUDITING
    D. FUNDS   AND     REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCING

7.8     The proposed operation will follow IDA'S disbursement procedures for DPOs. Once the
operation becomes effective, and at the request of the Borrower, the proceeds will be deposited
by IDA into a deposit account in US.dollars at the Bank of Sierra Leone which forms part of the
country's foreign exchange reserves. After disbursement of the loan, the Government will
ensure that the equivalent Leone amount of this loan is promptly accounted for (in Leones) in the
Borrower's budget system in the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and so be available to finance
budget expenditures. Within 30 days of receipt the Borrower will provide written confirmation
to IDA of the disbursement of the loan and that the amount has been converted to local currency
and an equivalent amount has been credited to an account of the Government available to finance
budgeted expenditures, providing supporting details of the accounting.
7.9     Disbursement would not be linked to specific purchases. The proceeds of the operation
would not be used to finance expenditures excluded under the Agreement. If, after being
deposited in a government account, the proceeds of the operation are used for ineligible purposes
as defined in the Financing Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to either: (a) apply the
corresponding amount to eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA. No
designated account is required for this operation.

                               E.   POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

7.10 The proposed Supplemental Financing to the GRGC-3 is expected to have a significant
and positive impact on poverty reduction, primarily because it will contribute to closing the
financing gap that has emerged for 2010. In addition recent policy initiatives by the Government
such as the health care initiative for pregnant and lactating mothers and children under the age of
5 years will also have a significant and positive impact on the poor and on vulnerable groups. As
outlined above, the policies supported under the operation aim at protecting pro-poor growth and
poverty reduction objectives. To the extent that the Government's 2010 program has the
expected impact of stimulating growth, creating additional employment opportunities, and
extending the reach of critical health services, it would protect the objectives of the PRSP-2 and
have a positive impact on the poor and on vulnerable groups.


                                                9
                                                      ASPECTS
                                        F. ENVIRONMENTAL

7.1 1 The policies and actions supported by the GRGC-3 and this proposed supplemental
financing are not likely to have any significant effect on the environment, natural resources and
forests. The policies and actions supported under the GRGC-3 and the supplemental financing
address primarily institutional reforms, none of which entails any environmental effect.
Government's 2010 budget does, however, include investments in basic infrastructure and
agriculture that may have some environmental effects. Most of these additional investments,
should they materialize, would be financed by development partners, each with their own
environmental requirements.

                                      G. RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

7.12 A number of risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation,
principally: (i) exogenous shocks; (ii) financing risk; (iii) fiduciary risk. Measures to mitigate
these risks in the event they materialize are being taken as outlined further below.
7.13 Risks from exogenous shocks remain significant. These include an extended global
recession, another rapid rise in international commodity prices for food or fuel, or new and
unavoidable expenditure obligations such as might result from a natural disaster.' A further
deterioration in the terms of trade that such events might trigger could depress growth, reduce
remittances from abroad and place government's ambitious plans for a stimulus to the economic
recovery at risk. The risks created by such shocks to macroeconomic stability and PRSP-2
implementation are mitigated by the Government's established track record of maintaining a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, a successful agreement with the IMF, and a continuous
dialogue with the IMF, the World Bank and the multi-donor budget support development
partners on macroeconomic policies and the reform program. In addition, the Bank will continue
to monitor the impact of the global recession and assess the need for further support, such as the
planned expansion of the cash for work program.
7.14 Financing Risk could derail the reform program, supported by this operation. The
most pressing risk comes fiom the failure to secure timely and adequate financing for the
2010 budget. Although this now appears to be in place, including through this proposed
supplemental financing, there is a possibility of delay. Should that occur, the Government would
face a dilemma: whether to maintain its program through increased resort to domestic borrowing
and the attendant risks to macroeconomic stability that would entail; or to undertake substantial
reductions in key expenditure programs including PRS implementation, and the lower GDP
growth that would be likely. This risk is mitigated by the Government's track record of
satisfactory macroeconomic performance and the ongoing intensive dialogue with development
partners within the harmonized multi donor budget support group.
7.15 Fiduciary Risk due to weak institutional capacity and governance. Weak institutional
capacity or corruption could hamper the implementation of the reforms supported by the
proposed operation and the broader Poverty Reduction Strategy. Additionally, inadequate

'Sierra Leone has faced natural disasters of various kinds, mainly in the form of recurrent floods (2009,2007,2005)
drought or landslides. The country is thus considered to be at relatively high mortality risk from multiple hazards
with 13 percent of its area at risk and more than 35 percent of the population at risk.

                                                         10
training in procurement procedures could slow the effective broadening of procurement reform,
and weaknesses in accounting skills especially at the sub-national level are also issues of
concern. These risks are mitigated by the choice and design of the supported measures which are
calibrated to existing capacity, the provision of extensive technical assistance and capacity
building through ongoing or planned projects (including support from the Institutional Reform
and Capacity Building Project for training in procurement and accounting skills), the Integrated
Public Financial Management Reform Project and the growing involvement of civil society in
oversight activities. As noted above, IDA and other development partners remain committed to
build capacity and strengthen the fiduciary environment.




                                              11
                               Annex 1: Fund Relations Note
                    Sierra Leone-Assessment Letter for the World Bank
                                        May 7,2010

Sierra Leone's program, supported by the Fund under the Extended Credit Facility (ECF), is
broadly on track. All but one o the quantitative performance criteria for December 2009 were
                               f
met. Although economic activity in 2009 was negatively impacted by the global economic
downturn, there are positive signs of a moderate pick-up in exports and growth. Discussions on
the final review of the program and a successor three-year ECF-supported program were
concluded ad referendum during the Spring Meetings.

Recent economic developments and short-term outlook

1.      Economic activity in 2009 was adversely affected by falling global demand and a drop-
off in foreign remittances. In spite of a pickup in exports of diamonds and agricultural products
in the second half of 2009, real GDP growth eased to 4 percent in 2009, down from 5.5 percent
in 2008. Growth is expected to rise to 4.8 percent in 2010, aided by global economic recovery,
investment in basic infrastructure, initiatives to improve the business climate, and increasing
agricultural productivity. Inflationary pressures subsided somewhat during 2009 as prices of
imports decreased, reducing annual inflation from 12.2 percent in 2008 to 10.8 percent in 2009.
However, 12-month inflation jumped to about 17 percent in February, reflecting the initial
impact of implementing a new VAT (called GST in Sierra Leone) and higher domestic fuel
prices. Monetary policy aims to bring inflation down to 12.5 percent in December 2010, while
accommodating administered price adjustments and supply shocks.

2.     Under the ECF-supported program, all except one quantitative performance criteria for
end-December 2009 were met, but the performance on structural benchmarks was mixed for the
second half of 2009. While three benchmarks, including the key one on introduction of the
Goods and Services Tax (GST), were met (one with delay), two benchmarks on tax
administration, and one benchmark on strengthening banking supervision were not met.

Discussion of a successor Fund-supported program

3.      Staff reached agreement ad referendum with the Sierra Leonean authorities on policies
that could be supported by a successor three-year ECF arrangement. The key challenges facing
the country continue to be the creation of fiscal space to finance investment in basic
infrastructure and implementation of structural reforms to promote higher sustainable private
sector-led economic growth. The authorities intend to create fiscal space under the new ECF-
supported program by broadening tax bases, containing nonpriority spending, raising public
sector efficiency, especially on project selection and implementation, and seeking concessional
financing from donors.




                                               12
Fiscal policy

4.       Fiscal policy performance during 2009 was broadly satisfactory. Higher budget grants
and domestic revenue collections, combined with some expenditure restraint, reduced the overall
deficit to 3.2 percent of GDP in 2009 fiom 4.8 percent in 2008 (and 4.4 percent in the program).
The domestic revenue target was met by a solid margin as import duties rose significantly.

5.       Fiscal space is to be created for accelerated capital and social spending by broadening tax
bases, containing nonpriority spending, and raising public sector efficiency. In 20 10, domestic
revenue performance is expected to improve due to revenue gains fiom the introduction of GST,
improvement in tax administration, and reduction in discretionary tax exemptions. While
nonwage current expenditures are expected to decline because of the ending of the emergency
power project, capital expenditures are planned to increase by about 1 percentage point of GDP
in 2010. The wage bill is set to increase by 0.4 percent of GDP as a result of significant salary
increases to health care workers, one component of the recently launched free health care
initiative. Implementation of a multi-year pay reform, addressing compensation for all public
servants, is to begin this year. This reform is expected to be budget neutral in 2010. The overall
fiscal deficit is projected at about 4 percent in 2010 while domestic financing is targeted to
remain below 2 percent of GDP.

Monetary policy

6.      Monetary policy was expansionary toward the end of 2009, accommodating higher
budgetary outlays ahead of a delayed inflow of external budget support, combined with
difficulties in rolling over treasury bills. Reserve money grew by about 20 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with 1 percent in the first three quarters of 2009. However, monetary policy
has been tightened in the first quarter of 2010 and this policy is expected to be maintained to
contain inflationary pressures during the rest of the year.

7.      The BSL will enhance the conduct of its monetary policy by establishing a benchmark
interest rate. The independence of the BSL is to be strengthened, as will the BSL's capacity to
conduct effective bank supervision. Access to credit will be enhanced by strengthening credit
information through establishing a credit reference bureau.

8.     Although the pace of credit growth to the private sector remained high in 2009, the
quality of the bank's loan portfolio improved, as reflected in a decline in the ratio of
nonperforming loans (NPLs) to gross loans fiom 17.9 percent at end-2008 to 10.6 percent at end-
2009.

Exchange rate

9.     After a long period of stability, the leone depreciated against the U.S. dollar by about 25
percent in 2009, partly reflecting weak export proceeds and remittances. However, the leone has
remained stable since end-2009. In 2010, the BSL will sell foreign exchange through regular

                                                13
foreign exchange auctions to mop up the domestic liquidity created by foreign financed budget
spending. Foreign exchange reserves are projected to be maintained at a comfortable level of
about 5.5 months of import cover.

Structural issues

10.     The structural reform program for 2010 and the medium term will complement the
macroeconomic policies that focus on creating more fiscal space for capital and social spending.
Efforts will focus on improving tax administration, strengthening public financial management
(notably in the planning, evaluating, and monitoring of capital projects), and deepening the
financial sector to promote private saving and investments. The government is also committed to
establishing a transparent and automatic pricing framework for petroleum products to reflect full
pass-through of international market prices to the domestic market.

Relations with the IMF

11.     A Board meeting for the final review of the current program and the ECF request is
tentatively scheduled for June 20 10.




                                               14
                                             Annex 2: Sierra Leone at a Glance
                                                                                                                                               2/25/0

                                                                               Sub-
Key Dovolopment Indlcators

(2008)

population, mid-year (millions)
Surface area (thousand sq. km)
                                                                 Sierra
                                                                 Leo ne


                                                                    5.6
                                                                    72
                                                                           Saharan
                                                                            Africa


                                                                               818
                                                                            24,242
                                                                                          LO w
                                                                                        income


                                                                                          973
                                                                                         8.30
                                                                                                      II   &e dletrlbutlon, 2008



                                                                                                           75-78
                                                                                                                           Mae

                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                  Fmsle



Population growth (%)                                               2.6         2.5        2.1
Urban population (%of total population)                             38          36         29

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                    16          885        50
GNIpercapita(At1as method, US$)                                    320         1082        524
GNIpercapite(PPP, international 8 )                                750         1991       1407



                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                   10       5              0       5        10
GDP groMh(%)                                                       5.5           5.0       6.4                             W C d    ol tdsl pqxrlauul
GDP per capita groMh (%)                                           2.9           2.5       4.2

(moat recent eatlmate, 2 0 0 3 - 2 0 0 8 )

Povertyheadcount ratio at $125aday(PPP,%)
Povertyheadcount ratio at $Z.OOaday(PPP,%)
Life epectancyat birth (years)
Infant mortaiity(per 1000 live births)
Child malnutrition (%of children under 5)

Adult Ilteracy, male (%of ages 15 and older)
                                                                    53
                                                                    76
                                                                    48
                                                                   155
                                                                    26

                                                                    50
                                                                                 51
                                                                                 73
                                                                                 52
                                                                                 89
                                                                                 27

                                                                                  71
                                                                                            59
                                                                                            78
                                                                                            26

                                                                                           72
                                                                                                      rn   Under4 mortalltyrate (per 1,000)




                                                                                                           300




                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                           200
Adult literacy,female (%of ages 15 and older)                      27            54        55
Gross primaryenrollment, male (%of age group)                      155           03        02
Gross primaryenrollment,female (%of age group)                     09            93        95              100


Access to an improvedwatersource(%of population)                                            87               0
                                                                    53           56
Access to improved sanitation facilities (%of population)            n           31         38



Net Aid F l o w                                      1880        1880          2000      2008     '


                                                                                                      I
(US$ rnillio ns)
Net ODA and official aid                                    91      59           181       535             Growth of GDP and GDP per caplta (46)
Top3donors (in2007):
 United Kingdom                                             5        4           68         88
 European Commission                                        8        8            14        72
 Netherlands                                                4         1           3         47

Aid(%of GNI)                                            8.5        0.2          29.3      32.9
Aid percapita(US$)                                      26          15           43        99




                                                                                                      I
Long-Term Economic Trends
                                                                                                                             95                        05
Consumer prices (annual %change)                      20.0        in0           -0.9       4.7
GDP implicit deflator (annual %change)                5.0         70.6           6.1       112
                                                                                                      -            --C GOP                     GOP par capita

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)           10        1514      2,092.1     2,982.3
Terms o f trade index(2000 = 0 0 )                                 02          DO           00
                                                                                                           1980-SO 1890-2000     2000-08
                                                                                                                (average annualgmuth 9Q
Population, mid-year (millions)                         3.3         4.1          4.2        5.6                     2.2              0.3            3.4
GDP (US$millions)                                      101         850          636       1954                      0.5             -5.0            0.3
                                                                  (%oFGDP)
Agriculture                                           33.0        46.9     56.4           50.2                       3.1          -0.0
Industry                                              219          8.2     28.4           23.5                       17            -4.5
  Manufacturing                                        5.3         4.6      3.5           3.7                                        6.7
Services                                              45.0        33.9      0.3           26.3                      4.9            -2.9
Household final consumption evenditure                90.7        83.5         00.0       85.8                      -2.7          -4.3
General gov't final consumption evenditure             8.4         7.6          14.3       12.5                     4.7           w.4
Gross capital formation                                8.2         0.0          8.9        14.7                      -11          -5.6

Eqorts o f goods and services                         22.9        22.4           18.1      8.3                      -16           4 2
Imports o f goods and services                        38.2        23.6          39.3      29.4                      -5.1          -0.2
Gross savings                                          0.5         2.6          -9.0       8.3


Note Figures initalics areforyears otherthanthosespeclfied 2006dataarepreliminary        indicates datearenot available
a Aid dataarefor2007

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG)




                                                                          15
                                                                                                                                       Sierra Leone
Balance o f Payments and Trade                 2000     2008
                                                                        Governance Indicators, 2000 and 2008
(US$millio ns)
Total merchandise exports (fob)                  75       314
Total merchandise imports (cif)                  161      381             V o i c e d aawntatility
Net trade in goods and services                 -a5      -255
                                                                                   Poiitid stability
Current account balance                         -D1      -209
 as a %of GDP                                   -15.9    -D.7                    Regulatay quality

                                                                                         Ruled law
Wrkers' remittances and
 compensation of employees (receipts)              7       5
                                                          10                  Cmtrd d cwruptim

Reserves, including goid                          50     M2                                              0           25         50       75         100

C e n t r a l Government Finance                                                 02008                        Cmntry'aperantile rank (0100)
                                                                                                                 higher values implybdtermthg
                                                                                 02000
(%of GDP)
                                                                        Source: K a ~ t m i n n X n a y M a 8 I ~ PWorld Bank
                                                                                                                   i.
Current revenue (includinggrants)                19.4    42.9
 Tax revenue                                     D.8      14.7
Current expenditure                             22.7     20.7
                                                                      T e c h n o l o g y and Infrastructure                          2000          2008
Overall SurplUS/defiCit                         -9.3      -4.7
                                                                      Paved roads (%of total)                                             7.9
Highest marginal taxrate (%)                                          Fixed line and mobile phone
 Individual                                                            subscribers (per D people)
                                                                                          O                                                   1
 Corporate                                                            High technologyexports
                                                                       (%of manufactured exports)                                       311
External D e b t and R e s o u r c e Flows
                                                                      Environment
(US$millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            1,190     389         Agricultural land (%of land area)                                   38          40
Total debt service                                47        6         Forest area (%of land area)                                       39.8        38.5
Debtrelief (HIPC,MDRI)                           857      352         Nationally protected areas (%of land area)                              ..     4.1

Total debt (%of GDP)                            187.1     1 .Q
                                                           9          Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)                   35,240        29,518
Total debt service (%of exports)                382         H         Freshwaterwithdrawal (billion cubic meters)                        0.4

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)          39         -3        C02 emissions per capita (mt)                                      0.0         0.18
Portfolio equity(net inflows)                     0         0
                                                                      GDP perunit of energyuse
                                                                       (2005 P P P $ per kg of oil equivalent)
    Composition oftotal oxtwnal debt, 2008
                                                                      Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)
                                                                                                                                                                !



                                                                      (US%mil/ions)

                                                                      IB RD                                                                                     I
                                                                       Total debt outstanding and dlsbursed                                   0           0
                                                                       Disbursements                                                          0           0
                                                                       Principal repayments                                                   0           0
                                                                       Interest payments                                                      0           0

,   USBmillions                                                       IDA                                                                                       8
                                                                       Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              354           D8
                                                                       Disbursements                                                      70           26
Private Sector Developmont                     2000     2008           Total debt service                                                     4          1      ,

Time requiredto start a business (days)            -        l7        IFC (fiscalpar)
Cost to start a business (%of GNI percapita)       -     145.8         Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                              2             1
Time required to registerproperty(days)            -       86           of which IFC o w account                                              2             1
                                                                       Disbursementsfor IFC own account                                       0           o     j
Ranked as a major constraint to business       2000     2008           Portfolio sales, prepayments and
 (%of managers surveyed who agreed)                                     repaymentsfor IFC own account                                         1           0
  n.a.
  n.a.                                                                M IGA
                                                                      Gross exposure                                                          -            5
Stock market capitalization (%of GDP)                                 New guarantees                                                          0           5
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                 8.5      l7.7



                                                                 16
                                      Annex 3: Millennium Development Goals
                                                                                                                                         Sierra Leone


with selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimateclosest to date shown, Y- ?years)


G o a l 1: halve the r a t r s for axtreme povrrty and malnutrltion                           1990            1996                  2000             2008
 Poverty headcount ratio at $125 a day (P P PI % o f population)                               62 8                                                   53 4
 Povertyheadcount ratio at national poverlyline(%of population)                               82 6                                                    70 2
 Shareof incomeorconsumptionto the poorest qunitile (%)                                           11                                                   61
 Prevalenceof malnutntion (%of children underb)                                                                                       24 7            26 3

Goal 2: ensure that chlldren are able to completa primary schooling
 Primaryscho o I enro Ilment (net, %)                                                          43
 Primarycompletionrate (%of relevant age group)                                                                                                        61
 Secondaryschool enrollment (gross, %)                                                           B                                    26               32
 Youth literacyrate (%of people ages 15-24)                                                                                                            a      i
G o a l 3: ollmlnate gondrr disparity In education and empower women
 Ratio of girls to boys in primaryand secondatyeducation (%)                                    67                                     71              66     ,
 Womenemployed in thenonagriculturalsector(%of nonagriculturalemployment)                                                                              23     ,
 Proportion of seats held bywomen in national parliament (%)                                                     6                       9               0

Goal 4 : reduce under-6 mortallty by two-thlrds
 Under-5mortalityrate (per 1000)                                                               290              283                   274             262
 Infant mortaiityrate (per 1000 live births)                                                    69               66                     61             65
 Measles im m unizat ion (pro portion of one-yearo Ids immunized, %)                                                                    37             67

Goal 6: reduce maternal mortality by threr-fourths
 Maternalmorlalityratio (modeledestimate,per 00,000 live births)                                                                                     2, no
 Births attended byskiiled healthstaff (%of total)                                                                                      42              43        i
 Contraceplive prevalence(%of women ages 15-49)                                                                                          4               5        '

                                    eat               o f HIV/AIDS and
 Prevalenceo f HIV (%of population ages 15-49)                                                  02               10                    12              17
 Incidenceof tuberculosis (per 00,000 people)                                                  207              279                   377             574
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                      29                    33              37         '

Goal 7: halve the proportion o f people without suatalnable accesa to b a s k noedr
 Access to an lmprovedwater source(%of population)                                                               57                    57
                                                                                                                                                       53         I
 Access to improved sanitation facilities (%of population)                                                        a                     P               n     i
 Forest area(%oftotallandarea)                                                                 42.5             412                   39 8           38 5
 Nationally protected areas (%of total land area)
 C02 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                                          0.1             0.1                    0.1
                                                                                                                                                      41
                                                                                                                                                      02
                                                                                                                                                                  '
 GDP perunit of energyuse(c0nstant 2005PPP $ perkgof oilequivalent)

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for developmont
                                                                                                03               04                    04                         1
 Telephone mainlines (per 0 0 people)
 Mobile phone subscribers (per 00 people)                                                       00               00                    03               8 1
 Internet users (per 00 people)                                                                 00               00                    01               03
 Personal computers (per 0 0 people)


  Education Indicators ( W )
                                                      olds)
                                                                                                       I C 1 Indicator8 (per I 0 0 people)
                                                                                                                                                              I:

   :I
    0
          ~. . ~.

         2000     2002   2004
                                .    ~. ,

                                    2006   2008




                                                                                                                                                              I
  -CPrimary net enmiiment ratio ( I                             1990     1995   2000   2007                   2000          2002      2004    2008

                                                                                                                 .Fixed       t   moMle SUbBcnbFm
   0
  - -Ratio olglds to boys ~npnmary 8 secondary             OSiem Leone      OSubSahamn Amca
          education                                                                                              .int.m.t         "men
                                                                                                                                                                  '
MAP SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33478


                                                                                                     SIERRA LEONE
                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS

                                                   DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                                                               RAILROADS

                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                  13W                                                                                12W                                                                                  11W



                                                                            GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                   Our-Kaba


10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10N
                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                               To                                                                                                                                            Faranah
                                                             Kindia
                                                                                                                                                                         Falaba

                                                                                                                                                      s.
                                                                                           Yana
                                                                                                                    Mon
                                                                                                                        go
                                                                                                                                               a   Mt
                                                                                                                                          ar
                                                                          ies




                                                                                                                                    W                                Kabala
                                                                       arc




                                                                                                                          a   ra                                                                        Bendugu
                                                                   t Sc




                                                                                                                      W                            KOINADUGU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUINEA
                                                               Grea




                                                                                                          Kamakwie                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                                             S el
                                                                                                                               Fadugu
                                   To                                                                                                                                                          Bagbe        Kamaron
                               Forecariah                            Madina
                                                                     Junction
                                                                                              BOMBALI                                                                                      Bintimani




                                                                                                                                                                                                            ts.
                                            KAMBIA                                                                                                                                         (1948 m)




                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kurubonla
                                                                  cies




                                                                                                           Pendembu




                                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                 Kambia                                                                                                                                                m
                                                               car




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lo
                                                           le S




                                                                                            Batkanu                                                                          Alikalia
                                                                                                                                                    Bumbuna
                                                       Litt




9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9N
                                     Mange                               Gbinti
                                                                                                           Makeni          Binkolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kayima
                                                                                                                                                               ana
                                                                                                                                                           Pamp




                                                     Port Loko                                                                                                                          Tefeya
                                                                                Lunsar
                                                                                                                                    Magburaka                                                               KONO
                                                                                                                                          Matotoka
             Lungi                PORT LOKO                                                                                                                                                      Yengema




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ills
                                                                                       l
                                   Pepel                                        R   oke                                                                                                                           Sefadu
                                                                                                                  T O N K O L I L I Masingbi



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ri H
 FREETOWN                                              Masiaka                                                                                                                                 Njaiama-
                                                                                                                                                                                               Sewafe



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Go
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gandorhun                                     Koindu
                                                                                                          Yonibana                 Yele
                                        Songo                                                                                                                                                                                                   oa
           WESTERN                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                       To
                                                                                                                                                    Mongeri                                                                                                       Kolahun
                                 Waterloo                                                                                                                                                                                                        Buedu
           AREA F.R.                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kailahun
                                                                                                                                                                                         Panguma
                                                   Rotifunk                                Moyamba                                                    Dambara                                                            KAILAHUN
          Banana
           Islands             Yawri
                                                                                                                                                     BO                                  KENEMA                        Pendembu
                                Bay                M O YA M B A                                                     Mano
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lago
8N                                                                                                                                                 Bo                                                                                                                 8N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Daru
                                                                                                              g




                                                                                Sembehun
                                                                                                          Jon




                               Shenge
                                                                                                                                                                        Blama                      Kenema
                                                                                                                                     wa
                                                                                                                                   Se
                                                                                                                                                      Kribundu                                                                                           IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIB E R IA
                                                                                                                                                                                           a




                                                          Sherbro
                                                                                                                                                                                        Mo




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Joru
                                                                                Momaligi                                  Sumbuya
                            Turtle                 Sherbro                                                  Matru
                           Islands                  Island                 Bonthe
                                                                                                                                                                       Potoru
                                                                          B O N TKH E
                                                                                                  ittam
                                                                                                                                                         Pujehun
                                                                                                                                                   PUJEHUN                                Zimmi
                                                                                                                                                                                           o
       ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                      Mabesi
                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                         an

                                                                                                                                                   Lake              Fairo
                                                                                                                                                   Mape                                                                                     SIERRA
7N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEONE
                                                                                                                                                     Sulima                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Monrovia

 0          20            40           60 Kilometers


 0                   20                     40      50 Miles

This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                         12W                                                                                  11W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOVEMBER 2004
