Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18122-UR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28 MILLION
TO
REPiTBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Juily 6, 1998
Human Development
LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso Uruguayo (UYU$)
LC$ 1.00= US$0.096
US$1.00= LC$10.445
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March 1 - February 28
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANEP          National Public Education Administration (Administracion Nacional de
Educaci6n Publica)
CODICEN       Central Directive Council of Education (Consejo Directivo Central de
Educacion)
LCR           Learning Resource Center (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizaje)
MEC           Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura)
MECAEP        Primary Education Quality and Equity Enhancement Project (Proyecto de
Mejoramiento de la Equidad y Calidad de Educaci6n Primaria)
MEF           Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas)
OPP           Office of Planning and Budgeting (Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto)
PCU           Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto)
PME           School-based Quality Improvement Projects (Proyecto de Mejoramiento
Educativo)
QCBS          Quality-Cost Based Selection
TCR           Court of Accounts of the Republic (Tribunal de Cuentas de la Republica)
UMRE          Achievement Evaluation Unit (Unidad de Medici6n de Resultados
Educativos)
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
CMU Country Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Director (Acting): Xavier Coll
Task Managers: Ricardo Silveira and Mari Minowa



Uruguay
Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .........................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators             .2
B. Strategic Context                                        ..2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                   .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                       .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices         .3
C. Project Description Summary .........................................................5
1. Project components                                   .5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project            .8
3. Benefits and target population                            .8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                     .9
D. Project Rationale ..............                                    ,                           10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies           11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design              .1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .12
E. Summary Project Analysis .12
1. Economic .12
2. Financial .14
3. Technical .14
4. Institutional .16
5. Social .16
6. Environmental assessment .17
7. Participatory approach .17
F. Sustainability and Risks .18
1. Sustainability .18
2. Critical risks .18
3. Possible controversial aspects .19



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                              19
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                                        19
2. Other ..................                                                           20
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                      20
I. Comlpliance with Bank Policies ........................                                    20
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .21
Annex 2.  Project Description .27
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .33
Annex 4.   Economic and Fiscal Analysis Summary .34
Annex 5.      Financial Summary                                                               59
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .60
Table Al.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .61
Table A2. Consultant Selection Arrangements .61
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .62
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .63
Annex 7.      Implementation Summary of the Ongoing Project .64
Annex 8.  Letter of Sector Policy .66
Annex 9.  Social Assessment Study Summary .70
Annex 10.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .72
Annex 11.  Documents in Project File .73
Annex 12.  Statement of Loans and Credits .74
Annex 13.  Uruguay at a Glance .............                                                  75



Uruguay
Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC7C
Date: June 22, 1998                                 Task Managers: Ricardo Silveira and Mari Minowa
Country Director: Myrna Alexander                   Sector Director (Acting): Xavier Coll
Project ID: UR-PE-41994     Sector: Education       Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loa       [ ] Credit    [ ] Guarantee        [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 28
Proposed terms:                        [     l] ulticurrency  [XI Single currency, specify   US$
Grace period (years): 3          [   Standard        []  Fixed           [X]      LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:  15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                           Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                12.0               -                 12.0
IBRD                                                      21.5              6.5                28.0
Total         33.5               6.5               40.0
Borrower: Republica Oriental de Uruguay
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): National Public Education Administration (Administraci6n Nacional de Educaci6n Pziblica)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999     2000       2001     2002      2003
Annual      8.6      6.2      6.0        6.2      l.e
Cumulative      8.6     14.8     20.8      27.0     28.'j
Project implementation period: 1998-2003  Expected effectiveness date: 12/18/98    Expected ....osing date: 08/31/03
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The general objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) expand coverage and improve quality of
preschool and elementary education, and (b) achieve greater social equity by targeting the expansion of
the new pedagogical single-shift (full-time) model of teaching within preschool education and elementary
education to socio-economically disadvantaged population.
Specific objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) provide universal coverage of preschool education
for children of age 4 and 5; and (ii) improve the quality of primary education (i.e. preschool education
and elementary education for grades 1 to 6)1 by adopting a single shift, full time school model. The latter
will be implemented as a compensatory program targeting the schools in socio-economically
disadvantaged areas.
The progress toward these development objectives will be monitored and assessed based on the key
output and development outcome/impact indicators listed below2:
*  Increase in the coverage of preschool education by enrolling the remaining 10,700 out-of-school
children of age 4 and 5 in urban areas, and providing virtually full coverage in rural areas. It is
estimated that, by end-project, less than 3,000 children in this age group will not be receiving regular
pre-school education. This represents no more than 3% of the population in the age group.
*  Increase in the coverage of single shift, full time schools, targeted to the socio-economically
disadvantaged areas, with the ultimate goal of 33,500 children between age 4 and 11 having access.
(Representing 30% of the school-aged children in socio-economically disadvantaged areas.)
-  Reduction in repetition rates for public elementary education as follows:
National average for all six grades:    from 10.8% to 5 %
National average for the 1st grade:     from 21.3% to 10 %
"Very disadvantaged" schools for the 1 st grade: from 33 % to 12 %
* Improvement in the academic achievement test results.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16642-UR. Date of latest CAS discussion: June 5, 1997
The goal of the Uruguay CAS is to enhance sustainable growth and private sector development through
factor rnarkets' strengthening, infrastructure development, human resource development, reduction of
fiscal deficit and modernization of the role of the state. The strategy in human resource development is to
assist the Government in improving the quality, equity, and efficiency of the education system, focusing
on the lbasic education level.
In Unuguay, the term "primary education" includes both preschool education for ages 4 and 5 and
"educaci6n comzun" or elementary education for grades I to 6, which normally corresponds to ages 6
to 11.
2 ANE]P targets to be reached by the year 2003.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Uruguay is among the countries in the region with highest per capita income (US$5,170) and lowest
income inequality (Gini coefficient: 0.37). L[ruguay has an education system that has been the envy of its
neighbors, and its education indicators are well above the region's average (e.g. 95% of children in the
appropriate age group enrolled in elementary education and 60% in lower secondary education).
However, the quality of public education has been deteriorating in recent years. There is a significant
waste of resources in public education, and it is not producing the skills demanded by the labor market.
Large quality differentials exist between the education of higher and lower income groups, even in the
public sector. The current administration has taken the issue of education quality very seriously, and
efforts are underway with the Bank and IDB support to reform the system.
National Public Education Administration (ANEP), which is in charge of the delivery of primary and
secondary education, and pre- and in-service teacher training, launched an Education Reform Program in
1995. The priority objectives of the reform a:re to: (a) improve the quality of education; (b) achieve social
equity; (c) improve teacher training and the service conditions of teachers; (d) enhance the relevance of
education to labor market requirements; and (e) strengthen sector management capacity.
More specifically, the reform encompasses the following key initiatives: (a) expand coverage of
preschool education targeted to the poor; (b) target the poor with quality basic education strategies by
shifting the system to a single shift, full time, school model; (c) reach full coverage of basic education
focusing on increasing attendance of children from poor families to grades 7-9; and (d) improve the
relevance of upper secondary education, particularly in reference to the role of technical and vocational
education in an opening economy and a changing technical environment. The ongoing reform also
envisages decentralization of school management, modernization of curricula, incentives to improve
teacher performance and training, and improved supplies of teaching and learning materials.
ANEP has begun implementing some of the reforms, with the support of the Bank-financed Basic
Education Quality Improvement Project (MECAEP - Loan 3 729-UR, approved on May 3, 1994) in the
areas of quality improvement and coverage expansion of basic education. Issues related to secondary
education are being addressed through two IDB projects.
The development objectives of the ongoing MECAEP project are to: (a) expand preschool coverage in
areas with unsatisfied basic needs; (b) enhance the quality of preschool education to increase elementary
school readiness and reduce repetition in the first two grades; and (c) enhance sector productivity and
strengthen overall sectoral management. Since its effectiveness in December 1994, the project has been
implemented satisfactorily. (See Annex 7 for the Implementation Summary of the Ongoing Project.)
While there has been resistance by the teachers' union to many of the reforms at the secondary education
level, the reform agenda at the primary education level so far has met with little resistance by teachers,
and high levels of innovation and achievement.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Based on the successful implementation of the ongoing MECAEP project, the proposed project (Second
Basic Education Quality Improvement Project, MECAEP II) will continue to address the same issues
identified in the basic education sector, and complement the achievements realized to date by the first
project. Specifically, the MECAEP II project will: (a) further advance the expansion of preschool
coverage to reach universal coverage; and (b) improve the quality of basic education by replacing the
current double shift curriculum with a single s]hift, full time curriculum, targeting the schools in socio-
economically disadvantaged areas.



Page 4
According to the results of the language achievement test applied in 1996 to all 6th grade students, the
share of students reaching satisfactory grades was significantly higher among single shift, full time,
schools, compared to double shift schools within the same socio-cultural categories of "disadvantaged" or
"highly disadvantaged" (60.7% vs. 49.3% for the former, and 42.6% vs. 37.5% for the latter). It is
noteworthy that this positive impact was achieved even without application of the curriculum especially
developed for full time schools. It is expected that by adopting the new pedagogical and institutional
model especially developed for full time schools, the program will have a greater positive impact on the
learning and development outcome of students.
While this component has a compensatory nature, being targeted to the disadvantaged population,
adoption of a full time school model with a specifically designed new curriculum developed for the
model would be beneficial for all children, regardless of their socio-economic background: the evidence
from other countries indicates that more time in school is correlated with better educational outcomes.
The reason why the component is designed as a targeted program for disadvantaged children is not
because the benefit of full time schools is limited to these children, but because cost and risk
minimization considerations mandate a phasing of the full time school model. Moreover, it would make
sense that priority be given to the less privileged, since it is among the low-income population that we
find the highest gains to be made, given their relatively low education performance. There may be other
social benefits to be derived from targeting this component to disadvantaged children in terms of their
socialization, quality of home life, and access to extra-curricular activities.
In addition to the two main project objectives discussed here, the proposed project will strengthen the
technical and administrative capacity of ANEP through technical assistance for monitoring and
evaluation of the Government's entire program of educational reform.



Page 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US $M)   financing
1. Universalization of Preschool
Education                                            15.4      38.3     10.3       36.8
1.1 Classroom Construction      Physical            10.9       27.2      9.6       34.3
Investment
Expand access to preschool
education for children of age 4 and
5 who are currently without access,
and those whose parents do not
respond to available supply
1.2 Classroom Equipment and     Physical             0.4      1.0        0.3         1.0
Learning Materials              Investment
Provide equipment and learning
materials for the newly constructed
preschool classrooms.
Provide books to all preschool
classrooms.
1.3 Training                    Institutional        0.3      0.7        0.3         1.0
Development
Provide training for all teachers and
principals of preschool education    Policy
and specialized joint training for    Reform
teachers and principals of preschool
and 1 st and 2nd grades in those
schools with high repetition rates.
Develop a strategy for
implementing the new concept of
"first cycle" of primary education
(for ages 4 to 7).
1.4 Studies                     Policy                0.1     0.2        0.1         0.2
Reform
Conduct (a) a beneficiary
assessment to identify demand
constraints to the universalization
of preschool education, and (b) an
impact evaluation study of
preschool education with panel data
extending to the third year of
elementary school.



Page 6
1.5 Promotional Campaign for    Institutional       0.1      0.2       0.1         0.3
Parents and Families            Development
Continue an ongoing promotional   Policy
campaign targeted to parents and    Reform
families who have not yet sent their
children to preschool programs.
1.6 Hiring of Teachers          Institutional       3.7      9.2        0          0
Development
Hire teachers for additional
classrooms of preschool education.
(Teacher salaries will be financed
by ANEP's regular budget.)
2. Expansion ofAccess to Single                    23.2     58.1       16.4       58.4
Shift-F,ull Time Schools
2.1 Classroom Construction      Physical            17.4    43.3       15.4       54.8
Investment
Construct new schools and
rehabilitate existing schools for the
implementation of the new
pedagogical model for full time
schools.
2.2 Classroom Equipment and    Physical             2.5      6.4        0.5        1.6
Learning Materials              Investment
Provide classroom equipment and
learning materials for the existing,
converted, and new classrooms of
full time schools.
(There will not be duplication of
equipment, books, and learning
materials for preschool classrooms
under the first and second
components.)
2.3 Training and Technical      Institutional       0.2      0.5        0.2        0.8
Assistance to Schools           Development
Provide training to teachers and  Policy
principals on the material of the  Reform
new pedagogical model for full
time schools, which includes
training on the special educational
needs of socio-culturally
disadvantaged children.



Page 7
2.4 Studies                     Policy              0.3      0.7        0.3        0.9
Reform
Conduct (a) a beneficiary
assessment of teachers and families
to obtain their view on the initial
implementation of the new model,
(b) an impact evaluation study of
the full time school model on the
learning outcomes, and (c) a case
study of successful and
unsuccessful full time schools.
2.5 Promotional Campaign        Institutional       0.1      0.2        0.1        0.2
Development
Conduct a focused campaign for
information dissemination and   Policy
sensitization targeted to families in  Reform
the communities selected for
establishing full time schools.
2.6 Hiring of Teachers          Institutional       2.8       7.1       0          0
Development
Hire teachers for classrooms of full
time schools created under the
project. (Teachers' salaries will be
financed by ANEP's regular
budget.)
3. Project Administration and   Project             1.4      3.5        1.4        5.0
Monitoring                      Mgmi:.
Strengthen ANEP's capacity to
implement the project. Improve the
financial management system of the
PCU. Develop and operate an
improved system of program
monitoring and evaluation.
Total       40.0    100.0       28.0      100.0
Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding



Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms are: (a) the systematic introduction of single shift, full day
schooling for disadvantaged students, building on the pilot experience of 58 schools, but correcting for
the inadequacy of infrastructure and adding the appropriate new curriculum, and (b) the agreement on
teacher incentives for participation in the single shift mode. As well, the project will be
institutionalizing/deepening evaluation processes and participation of key stakeholders in both the full
day schools and preschools.
ANEP has decided that the salary level for full time school teachers will be based on the existing system
of combining the remuneration for one shift according to each teacher's grade level, plus a fixed
remuneration for the second shift equivalent to one shift salary for an entry level teacher. While this may
mean a reduction in salaries for some teachers currently teaching in two separate shifts per day, ANEP
expects that new professional development opportunities available for full time school teachers will
attract enough young teachers to apply for these positions. ANEP will also require all principals and
teachers appointed to full time schools to commit to remaining in the same school for at least three years.
(See Section E for more discussion on teacher participation.)
The project will strengthen the institutional capacity of ANEP to monitor and evaluate its reform
programns on an ongoing basis.
3. Benefits and target population:
Preschool Component: The target population is the estimated 12,300 children of age 4 and 5 who have
not yet participated in preschool education. As of March 1998, a total of about 70,560 children in urban
areas are enrolled in public preschool education. (68% of the population of this age group.) Additional
15,000 children are estimated to be enrolled in private schools (14.4%). Of the remaining 17.6% of the
age group of 4 and 5 years, 3% are estimated to have special needs, such as physical disabilities. The
project will expand the preschool education coverage to the remaining 10,700 children (10.3%) in urban
areas through construction of new classrooms, and to 1,600 children (4.5%) living in isolated rural areas
through alternative strategies. (The actual expansion of coverage is estimated to be about 10,500
children, taking into account that some rural sector children already participate in preschool programs.)
Furthermore, through teacher training and adoption of the new curricula developed under the ongoing
MECAEP project, not only the children gaining access to preschool education by the proposed project,
but also the other children already enrolled will benefit from the quality improvement of the educational
services provided.
Full TimLe School Component: The target population is a total of about 18,000 students between the age
of 4 and 11 in poor households and attending schools categorized as "disadvantaged" or "very
disadvantaged," who will be incorporated into the new full time school model. These 18,000 children
represent about 20% of the preschool and elementary school age children in a condition of poverty.
These children will attend preschool or elementary schools with a full school day of 7.5 hours. When the
number of children with access to full time schools in the existing 58 full time schools and "jardines
asistenciales" are included, a grand total of about 33,500 children from 4 to 11 years old will be enrolled
in full time schools. This represents about one third of the target age cohorts living in poverty, and about
10% of the total enrollment of these grades in urban public schools. Similarly to the case of preschool
component, the entire group of students enrolled in existing and newly created full time schools will
benefit from the new pedagogical model developed by ANEP.



Page 9
The benefit of both the universalized preschool education and adoption of the full time school model is a
better cognitive and social development and improved scholastic achievement of the participating
children. The links between access to preschool education and better academic perforrnance in
elementary education, and between the single shift, full time curriculum and better academic performance
are widely known in literature, but also supported by the results of the achievement tests and
accompanying survey conducted for all sixth grade students in October 1996. [ANEP, Rendimiento
Escolar y Calidad Educativa, 1997]
While we expect repetition rates to be reduced as an outcome of the project, the educational benefits of
the single shift schools would be greatly underestimated if one focuses only on repetition outcomes.
Preliminary information indicates substantial improvements in Spanish and Math exams taken in the sixth
grade in existing single shift schools, where repetition rates were not significantly affected by the
introduction of the single shift mode.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation entity of the proposed project will be the National Public Education Administration
(Administraci6n Nacional de Educaci6n Ptiblica, ANEP), directed by the Central Directive Council of
Education (Consejo Directivo Central de Educaci6n, CODICEN).
ANEP has established a Project Coordination Unit (Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto MECAEP,
PCU) for the ongoing MECAEP project. The same PCU will be responsible for the implementation of
the new project. During the period while both projects are being implemented, the staff responsible for
each functional task will execute the same finction for both projects to effectively coordinate the
supported activities. At the completion of the ongoing project, the PCU will maintain only those
positions required for the execution of MECAEP II, which has fewer components. A satisfactory
amendment of the existing resolution, which created the PCU for the ongoing project, will be a loan
effectiveness condition. This amendment will expand the life of the PCU so that it can continue
functioning as the PCU for the proposed prcject for its duration.
The PCU has a General Coordinator (Coordinador General) responsible for overall project
implementation, a Technical Coordinator (Coordinador Thcnico) responsible for the
technical/educational aspects and training and upgrading of teachers, and coordinators for each of the
following three areas: (a) Administration and Disbursement; (b) Procurement; and (c) Architecture and
Civil Works. Including the support staff, the PCU currently has a total of 13 full time staff.
When appropriate, technical specialists will be hired for specific areas according to needs. For example,
in the area of architecture, specialists in the preparation of drafts, plans, bathrooms, electricity, etc. will
be required. The coordinators will be appointed by CODICEN with the prior "no objection" of the Bank.
Terms of Reference for the key personnel of'the PCU are included in the Project Implementation Manual.
During negotiations, the Bank and ANEP have agreed on a PIP, including detailed quantitative annual
monitoring indicators. The Borrower and ANEP agreed to participate in annual project reviews, starting
in March 1999. ANEP also agreed to prepare semi-annual progress reports for every calendar year of the
project execution, the first of which will be in mid February 1999.



Page 10
Auditing
The project records and accounts will be audited by the National Accounting Tribunal (Tribunal de
Cuentas de la Repzublica) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports shall be
delivered to the Bank within six months of the completion of the fiscal year. For the ongoing MECAEP
project, there have been consistent delays in the submission of audit reports by the National Accounting
Tribunal. The Auditing and Accounting Team of the Bank is currently working with the National
Accounting Tribunal to improve their audit performance.
Financial Management System
The Bank team reviewed the financial management system of the PCU/MECAEP. While there is
competent staff carrying out an acceptable financial management of the project, several areas have been
identified for improvement, and a series of actions have been agreed. The Bank will provide technical
assistance in helping PCU/MECAEP strengthen those areas needing improvement.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The pre-school component is a continuation of the first project with the goal of obtaining quasi-universal
coverage (excluding handicapped/special needs). Therefore, significantly different alternatives, such as
private schools or at home/neighborhood centers, were not considered. However, the second project does
reflect the lessons learned from the first, especially in terms of matching demand and supply, and efforts
to get a better understanding and participation of parents in the process.
For the component of single shift, full time schools, the Government could alternatively adopt a strategy
to implement the new model universally, or targeted at different groups of schools, other than socio-
economically disadvantaged schools.
The universal application of the single shift, full time school model was not chosen because of its
substantial cost implication. To maintain the fiscal impact of the project at a manageable and sustainable
level, it was decided to apply the model to a selected group of schools. Based on the evaluation of the
project impact, the full time school model might be expanded to a larger group of schools, and eventually
universalized.
The decision to target the application of the full time school model to those schools in socio-economically
disadvantaged areas was based on the findings that poor academic performance of elementary school
students was correlated with the socio-economic, and socio-cultural deprivation of households and
schools. By targeting these schools where unmet needs for good quality education are greatest, the
project will achieve a larger impact on learning and on social equity.



Page 1 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                  Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
__________________________  __(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Basic Education Quality Improvement  Basic Education Quality   S              S
Improvement Project
(M/[ECAEP) (ongoing)
Other development agencies
Secondary Education and Teacher   Secondary Education
Training                          Modernization and
Teacher Training
Pn)ject (IDB)
Technical Education               Technical Education
Improvement Project
(IDB)                            .
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lesson 1: The Government must develop a cDmprehensive and coherent strategy for the sector, providing
the basis for all donor intervention. This strategy must reflect consensus among the various stakeholders
in the sector. In 1995, ANEP launched the Education Sector Reform Program with clear objectives and
strategies. The Technical Assembly of Teachers (the core technical group within the teachers' union) has
always been invited and actively participated in the program development process of ANEP. ANEP also
has support of the national level political bodly of the teachers' union on its reform program for preschool
and elementary education. At the level of individual teachers, the preliminary results of the social
assessment study show the need for greater communication with, and involvement of teachers in the
reform process. The Bank will assist ANEP in developing this consultation and sensitization process
during project implementation. (The summary of the Social Assessment Study, attached as Annex 9,
includes a list of recommendations.)
Lesson 2: To guide implementation and build momentum, a detailed implementation plan must be
developed for at least the first year of operation prior to appraisal. To maintain momentum and assist
with evaluations and monitoring exercises, annual reviews should be instituted. The PCU prepared a
draft Project Implementation Plan, which was discussed and agreed during the negotiations. Since the
proposed project is a follow-up operation, to be implemented by the same executing agencies with
activities that continue those under the existing project, we do not foresee any problem with
implementation and initial momentum building. The proposed project will also continue to support
actions to strengthen ANEP's capacity for program monitoring and evaluation.



Page 12
Lesson 3: Realistic objectives and simplicity of design are an important factor in project success. This
also imiplies that the project should not require excessive amounts of foreign technical assistance, but
rather, be adapted to the existing level of capacity in the country. The proposed project has a simple and
clear structure with two specific objectives, each of which corresponding to a separate component. While
some foreign technical assistance will be helpful, especially in developing a strategy for experimenting
with an innovative new structure of basic education consisting of two cycles (age 4 to 7 and 8 to 11,)
local institutional and technical capacity exist to carry out most project activities.
Lesson 4: Supply of new classrooms needs to be carefully matched with demand. Some of the preschool
classrooms constructed under the ongoing MECAEP project were not fully occupied due to lack of
demand in the community. The location of new classrooms needs to be selected based on a good analysis
of the unsatisfied demand. The proposed project will construct the first set of preschool classrooms in
those areas where unsatisfied demand clearly exists. For the second phase of the construction (which is
expected to start during the calendar year 2000) a careful analysis will be conducted to assess the
demand. A satisfactory strategy, based on demand analysis, for selecting the sites for the second phase of
preschool classroom construction will be a condition of disbursement for the second phase of the civil
works and goods for the preschool component.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since the project's approval in May 1994 and the subsequent project effectiveness in December 1994,
ANEP has successfully been implementing the ongoing MECAEP project. Under the strong leadership
of the President of ANEP, the same team of competent staff in the PCU plays the principal role in
preparing both technical and operational aspects of the proposed follow-up project, thus ensuring
continuity of the programs. The educational sector reform operationalized in the proposed project
directly reflects the policy of the current administration. The Government resources required for the
proposed reform have already been approved by the Congress in the Government's five year budget
program for 1995-1999.
S. Valce added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will bring to the Government its experience in analyzing the merit of "single shift" schools in
other parts of the world, including similar experiences in the education reform in neighboring Chile and
Brazil. Bank's knowledge in teacher training is expected to also make a difference.
The Bank can also contribute its expertise in fiscal and economic analysis of the education sector and
education projects, gained through an extensive experience in conducting such analyses in many
countries of the world.
Another area in which the Bank can bring significant value added to the project is in systematic program
evalualtions.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 10.)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million;    ERR= 24.9% (for Component 1)
[]Cost Effectiveness Analysis:                 ERR= 33.3% (for Component 2)
[] Other (Specify)



Page 13
The main long-term benefit of preschool and full day schools are greater educational attainment later in
life. This benefit has been shown empirically in other countries and is the basis for expanding pre-school
and single shift education in Uruguay. On the latter, the impact on attainment has already been
demonstrated in the 58 pilot schools without the full benefits of the new curriculum or facilities.
However, the ultimate benefit-- better wages upon graduation from school-- cannot be reasonably
estimated at this point (too far in the future, too many other variables which affect graduation, not enough
data/experience yet on cohort groups from these schools, etc) and have not been included in the cost-
benefit analysis. On the other hand, those benefits which can be more easily quantified-- increased
income for mothers and reduced operating costs of the school system because of lower repetition rates--
were included in the analysis
The educational benefit of both the universalized preschool education and the adoption of the full time
school model is expected to be better cognitive and social development as well as improved scholastic
achievement of the participating children. Thne links between access to pre-school education and better
academic performance in elementary education and between single shift, full time curriculum and better
academic performance are both supported by results of achievement tests and accompanying survey
conducted for all sixth grade students in 1996. Mothers will also benefit directly by being able to work,
at least part-time. The institutional strengthening component will help ensure that benefits are indeed
delivered. Last, but not least, the project has important merits accruing from its targeting of the poorest
households in the country.
The quantifiable benefits arising from expanding initial education are presented in Annex 4, Table 6.
What one observes is that about 81% of the benefits accrue from the higher income of mothers, with the
remaining benefits coming from the reduced costs to the public sector from greater system efficiency.
Net benefits become positive in 2003. The economic rate of return (ERR) that results from this flow of
net benefits is 24.9%. A sensitivity analysis for this component shows that the distribution of the ERR is
highly positively skewed, indicating the importance of salaries of mothers in determining total benefits.
We found that there is a 73.8% probability that the ERR for this component is higher than 10%.
The benefits estimated for the component seeking to increase the number of students with access to full
time schools are presented in Annex 4, Table 10. Most benefits stem from the opportunity open to
mothers to work, even to a larger proportion than in the case of expansion of initial education. Only 7%
of the benefits arise from the lower public costs that result from the reduction in enrollment, that is a
consequence of the fall in repetition rates. Already in 2003, when the expenses with construction are
over, net benefits become positive. In steady state, the net benefits of this component are nearly US$ 3
million a year. The ERR for this component is 33.3%. We also conducted a sensitivity analysis to
estimate the distribution of the ERR and to assess how robust the results are to changes in the main
assumptions underlying the economic analysis. The results of the Monte Carlo simulations for this
component are presented in Annex 4, Table 12 and Graph 3. They indicate that there is a higher than
90% probability that the ERR is above 10%.
The economic analysis presented in this section understates the returns to the project in several ways,
since it focuses only on those benefits that can reasonably be quantified. We did not consider in our
analysis benefits such as the reduction in repetition and dropout rates in secondary education, which will
affect the number of students completing secondary (and tertiary) education as well as the age at which
these students will enter the labor market. Most importantly, we did not quantify the improvements in
learning outcomes that appear to be taking p lace as a result of preschool education and single shift
schools, but which have not been translated into lower repetition rates. Finally, the usual positive



Page 14
externalities to education have not been taken into account, so the economic results should be read as a
lower bound of "net-private" returns rather than social returns.
2. Financial and Fiscal (see Annex 4 and 5):
Public education expenditures presently account for 13.3% of overall public expenditures and 2.8% of
GDP. About one-fifth of education resources are dedicated to higher education. Despite expenditures
significantly below the average for Latin America (4.2% of GDP and 16% of public expenditures), the
Uruguayan education system boasts impressive results in coverage and quality of education. Uruguay
also has one of the best records in income distribution and equitable access to education. However, much
remains to be done if these students are to receive relevant quality education. The share of education in
public spending is expected to stay constant in the next five years. Since recurrent costs are expected to
actually decline, as a result of education reforms that promise substantial reductions in repetition rates
and higher transition rates between grades, there will be savings to be redirected to sustain the pace of
reform and expand targeted programs. As much as 0.5% of GDP will be available for reallocation by
2003.
The cost of the project amounts to slightly over 1.2% of the estimated education sector expenditures, and
1.6% of'ANEP's budget for the period 1998-2003. The project's recurrent cost represent a relatively
minor burden as a share of ANEP's recurrent expenditures, peaking at 0.8% in 2002 and averaging 0.6%
over the project's life. Financial sustainability is ensured, in part, by savings in recurrent costs expected
to be generated by the project. Among the benefits of the project is a reduction in repetition rates in
elementary education, resulting from greater student attendance of pre-school and from an expansion of
time spent in elementary school by low-income students. These improvements in enrollment flows will
result in savings of about $1.5 million over the next decade. The present value of the fiscal impact of the
project, net of project-induced taxes and of project-generated savings, is estimated at about $21 million.
This is relatively insignificant relative to the existing budget deficit and will be easily absorbed by the
Government. One indication of the smallness of the fiscal impact is that ANEP will be able to absorb the
entire recurrent expenditures induced by the project within the existing parameters of the negotiated
budget for the sector and, accordingly, has not requested financial support from the Bank for this
purpose.
3. Technical:
In general, this new project is less complex and does not imply great challenges for ANEP, since it is
basically a continuation of what was successfully developed under the MECAEP project. The PCU has
an extensive experience in terms of design and construction of school facilities, selection and
procurement of equipment, textbooks, learning materials, as well as training of teachers and principals.
ANEP also has important databases on enrollment, student social profiles, academic scores by school,
and a computerized enrollment system, which helps to ease the task of identifying schools and areas that
would benefit most from project activities.
The main technical challenge to be faced by ANEP under MECAEP II will be the implementation of a
new pedagogic single shift school model. This school model exists in Uruguay since 1992, and currently
58 schools operate under it. However, for many years, these schools lacked an adequate curricular
design, with little training provided to teachers and without technical support for the development of a
teaching model targeting children in socio-economically disadvantaged areas. Recently, since December
1996, ANEP has created a task force to conduct an extensive process of consultation regarding the
methodology of work in single shift schools. These consultations involved principals, supervisors and



Page 15
teachers' organizations. As a result, CODICEN has developed a proposal for a new curriculum for these
schools. The Bank has reviewed this proposal and considered it satisfactory.
Basically, this new single shift model implies the organization of pedagogic time in: (a) two modules
during the morning, (b) workgroup time in the early-afternoon, and (c) workshops in the late-afternoon.
In the morning modules, each teacher works with a group of students in the regular School Program. The
workgroup time is dedicated to various aspects of teamwork, group participation, interpersonal relations,
etc. Part of this workgroup time is also assigned to games like chess, checkers, ludo, etc., aimed at
stimulating the development of cognitive capacity and teamwork. The third module is organized so as to
allow the formation of groups of children o.f mixed ages. Each school will have four different kinds of
workshops: expression, mathematics and sciences, computer sciences and language, and social sciences.
Each teacher will be trained and become specialized in one of these areas.
Single shift schools will also provide:
* 7 V2 hours of schooling to children, including breakfast and lunch.
* Sufficient time, each week, for an evaluation of what was learned and to provide support to
children with difficulties.
* Time for physical education and sports.
e 2 1/2 hours per week for staff meetings.
The following has been agreed with ANEP:
*  Principals and teachers who will work in full time schools will be selected through exams,
and will be required to undergo a training course of 150 hours during the first year of
assignment.
*  Principals and teachers will not be allowed to relocate during the first three years of
assignment.
*  CODICEN will establish a teamri of inspectors, especially selected and trained in the new
pedagogic model, in order to supervise these schools.
The implementation of a new school model for the population of socio-economically disadvantaged areas
constitutes the main technical challenge for the new project, as well as a new experience in the region,
and will be carefully monitored through specific studies of social evaluation and learning impact.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: While the implementation capacity of the PCU/ANEP has been satisfactorily
demonstrated through the successful implementation of the ongoing MECAEP project, the capacity for
monitoring and evaluation of project impacit can be further improved. For the implementation of the
project, itself, a detailed list of monitoring inidicators has been developed and will be expanded during the
project implementation. At the same time, within the third component of the proposed project, technical
assistance will be provided to strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of ANEP for an
ongoing program monitoring and evaluation, with a view to providing continuous feedback and
adjustments for a successful program implementation.
It has also been agreed that client consultation, such as that carried out in the social assessment study, will
be a part of the regular project monitoring and evaluation. Particularly, the responsiveness of teachers to



Page 16
the expansion of full time schools and adoption of the new curriculum will be continuously monitored to
ensure their participation and support.
b. Project management: The Bank team has reviewed the financial management system. of the existing
PCU for the ongoing MECAEP project. The PCU/MECAEP management has agreed to improve its
financial monitoring mechanisms so that it would comply with the latest Bank standards. The new
system is to include linkages to various related elements of the project, including: project organization
structure; terms of reference of key PCU staff; accounting system and charts of accounts; planning and
budgeting; internal control environment such as manuals and procedures; computer system; and financial
management reports.
5. Social (See Annex 9):
A rapid social assessment was conducted as part of project preparation. The objectives of the assessment
were: (a) to find the reasons why some families do not send their children to preschool programs,
identifying possible demand constraints; and (b) to learn the opinions of teachers and families on the
propose6 reform introducing the full time school curriculum. For the preschool component, the
assessment study found that there is a general consensus among primary stakeholders about the
importance of the preschool education, and that the main problem is lack of supply. For the full time
schools component, the study highlighted the importance of a participatory approach, supported by
institutional strengthening at the school level. (A more detailed summary is presented in Annex 9.)
The single shift school model responds to the following emerging demands found through the social
study:
*  Teachers will have 2 V2 hours per week to work in teams, plus an additional 1 V2 hours within
their work schedule to plan their classes.
*  Single shift schools will have a full time social assistant as part of the staff; this addition to the
staff is aimed at reducing the incidence of violence in the schools and to improve the cooperation
between families and schools.
*  Teachers in existing single shift schools are receiving 150 hours of training in how to teach in
workshop mode. The same training will be available in the new schools.
*  Each school will have a curricular definition in the workshops of Module III (explained in
technical proposal). For this purpose, they will be trained and be given specific technical
assistance.
*  In general, parents will be able to choose between single shift and regular schools. However,
space in single shift schools will be rather limited, at first.
For the targeting of the full time schools program, satisfactory selection criteria have been established,
which consist of an indicator of poor educational performance (high repetition rates,) the socio-
economical and socio-cultural deprivation indicator, and the historical population growth rate of the
community. Target communities have already been selected for the construction of full time schools,
based on these criteria.



Page 17
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category     []A   []B    [X] C
No major environmental impact is expected by construction of about 480 classrooms and rehabilitation of
120 additional classrooms at the preschool and elementary school level. No resettlement is expected for
the construction of new schools and classrooms. As a positive impact of the project, environmental
education has become part of the new textbooks and teacher training programs.
7. Participatory approacht [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicablel:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Main beneficiaries are children who will attend preschools and full time schools as a result of the project,
and their families. The families will participate in school activities throughout the implementation period
of the project. The project will enable active participation of families in the educational process of their
children, which has been demonstrated to contribute significantly to the leaming and developmental
outcome of the children. The participation of families will take various forms, including: frequent
reporting and discussion on children's day-to-day progress using a notebook exchange between teachers
and parents; participation in cultural and educational activities organized by the school, organization of
meetings of recreational character, and participation in more formalized school activities such as
volunteering as teaching assistant or helping with school maintenance, and regular meetings of parents
associations.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Teachers and principals of the schools invelved in the project and inspectors of the same school districts
are other key stakeholders. Through a special task force, they have taken up a key role in developing the
new pedagogical model for full time schools as well as the new curriculum for preschool education.
During project implementation, teachers and principals will be the key actors in implementing these new
models. Their participation will be support:ed by training specially designed for the purpose, and weekly
hours set aside for discussion and reflection on their teaching practices.
To address the concern that there may not be enough support from teachers on the proposed expansion of
the system, and the new pedagogical mode.l for full time schools, the Bank team conducted interviews
with teachers of existing full time schools, and more broadly with representatives of the teachers' union.
The team found the following conclusions:
*  There is full and unconditional support for full time schools by the teachers' union;
*  The number of teachers to be hired each year (about I 10), contemplated under the project, is
negligible relative to the total stock of teachers (14,000) and to the yearly flow of teachers from both
new (about 750) and relocation sources (teachers are allowed to move after two years in a position);
*  Past experience with the ongoing full time schools shows that the number of teachers applying for
vacancies greatly exceed the number of positions available each year;
*  Training for the full time school curriculum has started, and demand by teachers exceeds available
slots by nearly 200%;



Page 18
* Salary incentives for teachers to teach in the full time school are roughly the equivalent of doubling
the income of teachers working in two regular-shift schools, once all costs of teaching in two schools
are factored in. For many teachers, there are no assurances that (s)he will get two shifts to teach.
The single shift, full time mode is the only assurance of getting paid two salaries.
F: Susiltainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional capacity of ANEP/PCU to carry out the project has been demonstrated by the successful
implementation of the ongoing MECAEP project. The Government's ownership of the proposed reform
programs is strong, as evidenced in the fact that all of the proposed actions are included in the five-year
budget program for 1995-1999, which was approved by the Congress in 1995. Therefore, expected
sustainalbility of the programs, in terms of institutional capacity, during and after the project
implementation period is high.
The Bank team has also assessed the fiscal impact of the project and the future operation of the project
should be sustainable in financial terms. (See Section E.2 above.)
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
The successful expansion of coverage for preschool M        Criteria for selecting the new
education and its universalization depends on the           classroom locations have been
effective targeting of unmet needs.                         carefully reviewed during
project preparation.
There is a risk that simple supply expansion is not  M      Preliminary results of the Social
enough to induce participation in preschool                 Assessment Study show that
education for the last remaining segment of the             substantial unmet demand for
population.                                                 preschool education exists. The
supply constraint seems to be
the main issue.
The project assumes sustainability of increased  N          The incremental recurrent costs
recurrent costs of teacher salaries and other               have been calculated, and their
associated costs, implied by the creation of 200 new        impact on the annual
preschool classrooms and 280 new full time                  Government budget has been
classrooms.                                                 found to be insignificant.
The full time school component assumes that   M             Active consultation and
teachers cooperate with the reform and participate          participation will be sought from
positively and actively in the transformation               teachers throughout the
process, adopting the new pedagogical model.                preparation and implementation
of the new full time school
curriculum to gain their
confidence and ownership of the
reform process.



Page 19
Interviews held by the Bank
project team with teachers and
teachers' union representatives
demonstrate that there exists a
high degree of interest and
support among them for the
expansion of full time schools.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
The calculation of costs to achieve the expected  N        The project scope will be
outputs is based on the assumption of fiscal and           adjusted to feasible size, in case
economic stability in Uruguay during the project           of fiscal and economic shocks.
implementation period of 1998-2003.
Assumes that there are no dramatic shocks in  N            Foreign component of the
exchange rates.                                            project cost is not large.
Overall Risk Rating M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
None anticipated.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  That the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ANEP.
-  That an Operational Manual, satisfactoiy to the Bank, has been approved by ANEP.
*  That ANEP has amended Resolution No. 57, Acta 3 of 1994, in order to allow the continued
operation of the PCU as provided in Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement.
*  Legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by ANEP, and is legally binding upon ANEP in accordance with its terms.
*  Legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank that the subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and ANEP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANEP in
accordance with its terms.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
* Satisfactory strategy resulting from the demand analysis for new preschool classrooms for the second
phase of the construction is a condition of disbursement for the second phase of the civil works and
goods for the preschool component.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Managers:              Ricardo Silveira
Mari Minowa
Sector Director (Acting):   Xavier Coll
Country Director:           Myrna Alexander



Page 21
Annex 1
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance      Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Assist the Government in    *  Reduction of repetition  Statistical records of the  The size of contribution
improving the quality,      rates.                National Public Education   that the human resource
equity and efficiency of the  *  Increased coverage in   Administration (ANEP).    development can have on
education system, focusing   poor areas.                                    Uruguay's sustained
on the basic education   *  Increased availability                          economic growth depends
level.                       of early childhood                             also on the achievement of
education, particularly                        other CAS objectives,
in poor areas.                                including private sector
development, fiscal deficit
reduction, and
modernization of the role
of the state.
Project Development      (Project Outcomes and                              (Objective to Goal)
Objectives:              Impact by year 2002)
Greater coverage and     Access to preschool      Statistical records of the  Assumes that the positive
higher quality of the    education for the rermaining  ANEP (CODICEN) for the  impact that preschool
preschool and elementary    10,700 children of age 4  increase in the enrollment   education and the single
education for children of    and 5 in urban areas and  and reduction in repetition   shift model have on
age 4 to 11, and a greater    1,600 children in rural  rates.               learning outcomes, found
social equity by targeting    areas, thus achieving a                       in the data from the 1996
the socio-economically   universal coverage.                                achievement test, is real
disadvantaged population.                                                   and not a spurious
Access to full time (single                       correlation.
shift) schools for 30% of
the school-aged children                          Assumes that expansion of
(age 4 to 11) in socio-                           access to preschool and
economically                                      single shift schools is
disadvantaged areas.                              accompanied by a
corresponding
Reduction in repetition  Independent evaluation   improvement of the
rates for public elementary  study on the impact of  educational quality.
education as follows:    preschool education on the
learning outcomes and    Assumes a continuity in the
*  National average for   repetition rates in     Government's policy and
all six grades: fiom  elementary education, with  priorities in the education
10.8% to 5%          particular attention to the    sector under the new
socio-economic           administration taking office
*  National average for    background of the children.  in the year 2000.
the 1st grade: frDm
21.3% to 10%         Independent evaluation
study on the impact of full
time model of basic



Page 22
education (both preschool
*  "Very disadvantaged"   and elementary) on the
schools for 1st grade:   learning outcomes and
from 33% to 12%      repetition rates.
Improvement in the       Results of the achievement
achievement test results.    tests to be applied
periodically by the ANEP.
Outputs:                                                                    (Outputs to Objective)
1. Universalization of
Preschool Education for
Children ofAge 4 and 5
Construction of new      A total of 200 new        Statistical records of the  The successful expansion
classrooms for preschool in  classrooms for preschool    ANEP/CODICEN, and  of coverage for preschool
those areas without access   constructed.          particularly the project  education and its
or with increased        1999  47 classrooms      monitoring indicators     universalization depends
enrollment: demand.      2000  53 classrooms       maintained by PCU.       on the effective targeting of
2001  50 classrooms                                the unmet needs.
2002  50 classrooms
There is a risk that simple
Provision of equipment and  Equipment/furniture    Verification through site    supply expansion is not
learning materials for   installed in 200 classrooms. visits during project  enough to induce
newly constructed                                  supervision.             participation in preschool
preschool classrooms.    A total of 100 sets of                             education for the last
teaching materials provided                        remaining segment of the
to the new classrooms.   Semi-annual project      population. It may be
(one set per two         implementation report    necessary to provide
classrooms.)             prepared by PCU.         economic incentives and/or
resort to a legal action
Increased number of      A total of 400 teachers                            making preschool
teachers through hiring of   (working 1/2 time or an                        education obligatory.
new graduates, and       equivalent of 200 full time
reassignment and         teachers), 200 teachers'                           (The proposal of making
conversion of existing   aids, and 100 cleaning staff                       preschool education
teachers.                placed in the newly                                obligatory for children of
constructed classrooms by                         age 4 and 5 is currently
the end of 2002.                                  being discussed in the
congress.)
Improved teacher         All new teachers and
performance through      converted/reassigned
training.                teachers trained and                               The project assumes
upgraded for preschool                             sustainability of increased
Improved preschool       education.                                         recurrent costs of teacher
curriculum.                                                                 salaries and other
associated costs, implied
Improved teacher-parents   A systematic and frequent                        by the creation of 200 new
collaboration/participation   method of communication                       preschool classrooms.
in the early learning    regarding the children's
process of children.     developmental status
established between
teachers and parents in all
preschool classrooms.



Page 23
2. Conversion ofDouble
shift Schools to Single shift,
Full Time Schools
targeting the Socio-
economically
Disadvantaged Areas.
The full time school
Construction of new                                                           component assumes that
schools and classrooms for  A total of 280 new                                teachers cooperate with the
the full time schools.    classrooms constructed for                          reform and participate
single shift education, with                        positively and actively in
Conversion of existing    eight classrooms per school                        the transformation process,
schools and classrooms    (2 for preschool and 65 for                         adopting the new
into full time schools.   elementary) or sixteen                              pedagogical model.
classrooms per school,
resulting in a construction
Provision of equipment and  of about 23 new schools.                          Assumes also that the fiscal
learning materials for full                                                  impact of the recurrent
time schools.             1999 72 classrooms                                  costs generated by the new
2000 72 classrooms                                  demand is sustainable.
2001 72 classrooms
2002 64 classrooms
Improvement of the
infrastructure of a total of
25 corresponding existing
schools which are
converted from double
shift to single shift.
Classroom furniture and
equipment provided to 280
new classrooms and 120
converted classrooms,
according to the needs.
Teaching materials
provided to 280 new
classrooms, 23 converted
schools, and 58 existing
full time schools.
Implementation of a new
pedagogical model for full  New pedagogical model
time schools.             for full time schools
implemented in all of the
Increased number of       new, converted, and
teachers through          existing full time schools.
reassignment and
conversion from other
levels.
Improved teacher          A total of 1,200 teachers
performance through       and principals for single
training.                 shift, full time schools
trained and placed.



Page 24
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                          T (Components to Outputs)
components:              component)
1. Universalization of                             Implementation status of    The calculation of costs to
Preschool Education                                the inputs for the project    achieve the expected
will be monitored through   outputs is based on the
1.1. Classroom                                    an ongoing program of     assumption of fiscal and
Construction                                       project supervision and  economic stability in
semi-annual reports of the   Uruguay during the project
Expand access to preschool  Construction of 200    project to be prepared by    implementation period of
education for those      classrooms for preschool   the Project Coordination  1998-2002.
children aged 4 and 5    (US$13,600,000)          Unit.
currently without access, or                                                Assumes that there is no
those whose parents do not                                                  dramatic shocks in
respond to available                                                        exchange rates.
supply.
1.2. Classroom Equipment
and Learning Materials
Provide the new          Provision of equipment,
classrooms with equipment  fumiture, and leaming
and furnitire, which are  materials for 200
pedagogically and        classrooms
economically appropriate.   (US$400,000)
Continue provision of
learning materials that are
pedagogically and
economically suited for
effective preschool
education.
1.3. Teacher Training
Train all teachers and   Training courses for 2,500
principals of preschool  teachers of preschool.
education on the new     (US$ 300,000)
curriculum, and provide a
specialized training for
teachers and principals in
those schools with high
repetition rates.
1.4. Studies
Carry out an impact      Consulting services of
evaluation study and an in-  national and external
depth social assessment.    expert.
(US$100,000)
1.5. Promotional
Campaign for Families
Continue conducting      Printed materials and
promotional campaign of    consulting services.
preschool education,     (US$100,000)



Page 25
targeted to those families
not enrolling their children
in preschool programs.
1.6. Salaries of teachers  Salaries
Additional teachers hired to  (US$ 3,700,000)
staff newly created
preschool classrooms
2. Expansion ofAccess to
Single shift, Full Time
Schools
2.1. Schools/Classrooms
Construction and
Rehabilitation
Construct new schools and   Construction of 280 new
convert corresponding      classrooms and
existing schools to        rehabilitation of 120
accommodate for the new    existing classrooms.
full time school model in    (US$18,600,000)
those target areas identified
by selection criteria based
on the socio-economic
needs and the rate of
demand growth.
2.2. Classroom Equipment
and Learning Materials
Equip the newly           Provision of equipment and
constructed and            furniture for newly
rehabilitated classrooms   constructed schools and
with equipment and         replacement of obsolete
furniture appropriate for  equipment in converted
the full time curriculum.  schools.
Provide students of full   Provision of learning
time classrooms with       materials for the full time
learning materials specially  curriculum for 280 new
designed for the new       classrooms, 25 converted
pedagogical model of full   schools, and 58 existing
time schools.             full time schools.
(US$2,300,000)
2.3. Teacher Training
Provide training for those    Training of 1,200 teachers
teachers and principals    and principals for the new
assigned to the full time  full time curriculum.
schools.                   (US$ 200,000)



Page 26
2.4. Studies
Conduct an impact        Consulting services.
evaluation study and     (US$ 100,000)
beneficiary assessment of
the full time school model.
2.5. Promotional
Campaign
Conduct a targeted       Consulting services and
program of information   printed materials.
dissemination and        (US$ 200,000)
promotion of the new full
time school model.
2.6. Hiring of Teachers  Salaries
Additional teachers hired    (US$2,800,000)
for full time schools.
3. Project Administration
and Monitoring
This component will      Operational costs of the
continue supporting      project, including salaries
ANEP's effort in         of the staff of the Project
institutional strengthening.  Coordination Unit.
In addition to financing the
Project Coordination Unit,  Also, consulting services
the project will establish a   for developing the program
special unit within the PCU   monitoring system.
for ongoing program      (US$1,300,000)
monitoring and evaluation.
This unit is intended not
only for the proposed
project, but also for the
monitoring and evaluation
of a broader program of the
education r eform.



Page 27
Annex 2
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$ 15.4 million (38.3% of the total project cost)
UNIVERSALIZATION OF PRESCHOOL EDUCATION
The objectives of this component are: (a) to expand the coverage of preschool education to nearly 100%
of children of age 4 and 5; and (b) to improve the quality of public preschool education. The component
consists of five sub-components.
1.1 Classroom Construction
Currently, a total of 70,560 children are enro]lled in the public preschool education programs, representing
about 68% of the total population of children age 4 and 5 (66% for age 4 and 70% for age 5). Together
with the additional 15,000 children enrolled in private preschool programs, the total coverage reaches
about 82.2%. Of the remaining 17.8%, the ANEP estimates that about 3% are children with disabilities
needing specialized programs, and 4.5% are children living in isolated rural areas. The remaining 10.3%
corresponds to a total of about 10,700 children in urban areas. The project will construct new classrooms
to provide adequate infrastructure to those children already enrolled in the system, but housed in sub-
optimal infrastructure, and also to cover the new demand to be created for the remaining 10,700 children
who have not yet enrolled in the system.
The construction of classrooms will be carried out in two phases. During the first phase, a total of 47
classrooms will be constructed to respond to the unsatisfied demand which has been already identified.
This unsatisfied demand includes a part of the 70,560 enrolled children who are on the waiting list to be
assigned a school, and those who attend in make-shift classrooms which are rented to satisfy the rapidly
increasing demand in urban and peri-urban areas. The list of communities where classrooms are to be
constructed during the first phase of the project has already been submitted to the Bank. This first phase
of the construction is expected to benefit a total of 2,820 children based on a calculation of 60 children
per classroom.
During the second phase, the project will address the coverage for those children who can attend normal
preschool programs (i.e. without disabilities,) but have not yet enrolled. The Bank, together with the
MECAEP Project Coordination Unit, has conducted a rapid beneficiary assessment study, which tried to
identify factors that impede families from enrolling their children to preschool education. The findings of
the study seem support the premise of the project, that unavailability of the supply of preschool
classrooms is the main issue, rather than demand constraints. The project will conduct, during the second
semester of 1998, a further analysis of the issue of inactive demand. As a result of this analysis, a strategy
will be formulated on how to expand the coverage, including guidance on media campaigns to promote
preschool enrollment. During the second phase of this sub-component, which is expected to start during
the year 2000, a total of 153 classrooms are expected to be constructed. Location of construction will be
guided by a computerized system that will track preschool enrollment.



Page 28
1.2 Classroom Equipment and Learning Materials
Under the ongoing MECAEP project, a new set of classroom equipment and learning materials for
preschool education has been designed. The same set of classroom equipment and furniture as developed
under MECAEP will be provided to the classrooms newly constructed under the proposed MECAEP II
project. The project will also provide learning materials and books for these new classrooms, and a set of
exterior playground equipment.
1.3 Training
Three types of training programs will be carried out within the MECAEP II project, of which two are a
continuation of the training activities already conducted by ANEP under MECAEP. First, all of the
public preschool teachers (about 2,500 in total) will participate in a monthly training module of thirty
hours during the school year. This training is given outside the teachers' normal work hours, and
participation is obligatory. However, CODICEN has decided to pay compensation to participating
teachers. The training is conducted by inspectors of the school district based on professionally developed
materials for various topics relevant for the new curriculum for preschool education, recently developed
under the ongoing MECAEP project. MECAEP II will continue financing this training for all preschool
teachers.
The second training program addresses the problem of high repetition rates of the first grade children in
primary schools. This program started in the 1998 academic year, and is targeted to the teachers of those
schools with high first-year repetition rates (more than 30%). Teachers of preschool classes for four and
five year olds and teachers of the first and the second years of primary schools jointly participate in this
training, which is considered crucial for dealing with the problem of transition from preschool to primary
school. Participation is voluntary, since this intensive training is given outside teachers' normal work
hours. However, CODICEN has decided to pay compensation to participating teachers. (Neither teachers'
salaries nor this training incentive will be financed with loan proceeds.)
The third set of activities in this sub-component is directed to developing a strategy for implementing a
new concept of preschool and primary school education. Universalization of preschool education for four
year olds will provide an environment where the concept of "school" can start from this age. The project
will finance seminars, conferences, technical assistance by foreign and national experts, and study visits
to other countries as imputs to ANEP's preparation of a technical proposal of the "first cycle" of school
(for four to seven year old children) to be implemented in Uruguay in the near future. Participants of
these activities will be inspectors (superintendents), educators of teachers, middle managers of ANEP,
teachers' union officials, and teachers themselves. ANEP, through CODICEN, and the MECAEP II PCU
will jointly form a technical committee to guide this process.
(Until the ongoing MECAEP project is completed, the first training program will be financed under the
ongoing lproject, with the MECAEP II continuing to finance it after the year 2000. The second and third
programs will be financed by the proposed MECAEP II.)
1.4 Studiies
Under the MECAEP II, two studies will be carried out for the preschool component. The first study is an
in-depth social assessment of those families and children who have not responded to the promotional
campaign of preschool education. The study will determine through focus group interviews and other
methods, the reasons why these parents do not want to send their children to preschool programs, and/or



Page 29
what economic and social factors prevent them from doing so. Based on the findings of this analysis, a
concrete strategy will be proposed to expand the preschool education coverage to these children, as
mentioned in paragraph 1.1 of this Annex. Ihis study will be conducted during the second semester of
1998.
The second study is the continuation of the impact evaluation study of preschool education. The ongoing
MECAEP project is financing the first round of such study, using as the base data, the results of the
linguistic cognitive test applied to 500 four-year-old children in 1997. This first evaluation study is being
carried out during 1998 based on the agreed Terms of Reference, which also incorporates a second group
of children entering preschool education only at age five. Under MECAEP II, these same groups of
children will be followed up until they proceed to the third year of primary school in the year 2001.
Construction of such panel data that extend fDr five years will allow researchers to analyze long-term
effects of preschool education.
1.5 Promotional Campaign for Parents andl Families
After the completion of the ongoing project, MECAEP II will continue to finance the promotional and
motivational campaign targeted to the parents and families of children who have not yet enrolled in
preschool programs. CODICEN has also developed special materials for parents in those schools with
high repetition rates and in socio-economically disadvantaged areas. Through the distribution of these
materials, the project intends to ameliorate the limited capacity of these families to provide developmental
stimuli to their children at home.
1.6 Hiring of Teachers
Additional teachers will be hired to staff the newly created preschool classrooms, financed by ANEP's
regular budget.
Project Component 2 - US$ 23.2 million (58.1% of the total project cost)
SINGLE SHIFT - FULL TIME SCHOOLS
The objective of this component is to expand a new pedagogical model of full time schools targeted to
those children from socio-economically disadvantaged families, thus improving the quality of primary
education (i.e. preschool and elementary school education) they receive and expanding their access to
learning opportunities. The component consists of the following five sub-components.
2.1 Classroom Construction
Under this sub-component, the project will support provision of the physical infrastructure necessary for
adoption of the new model of full time schools. Enhancement of the school infrastructure will consist of:
Improvement of the existing full time schools. Currently, a total of 58 schools operate as full time
schools. Many of these schools are housed in an infrastructure that is not adequate for the satisfactory
application of the new pedagogical model developed for a systematic improvement of the education
quality. The project will finance expansion and/or improvement of these classrooms and school
buildings.



Page 30
Transformation of double shift schools to full time schools. Of the existing double shift schools, about 25
schools will be selected to be converted to a full time school, by transferring one of the two shifts of
students to a new school. For each of these selected schools, rehabilitation of existing classrooms and
other school infrastructure will be carried out according to needs. It is expected that about 120
classrooms will be rehabilitated.
Construction of new schools. The project will construct a total of about 280 new classrooms for full time
schools, ranging from 8 to 16 classrooms per school, thus translating into construction of 25 to 30 new
schools. The locational selection of these new schools will be made with the objective of improving the
social equity, and also ensuring the existence of sufficient demand in the community. Specifically, the
selection will be based on the following three criteria: (i) the repetition rate for the first year primary
school students is 30% or higher in the survey conducted by CEP in 1996; (ii) the school is classified as
socio-economically and socio-culturally "disadvantaged" or "highly disad[vantaged" in the survey of
schools applied as part of the National Achievement Evaluation conducted by UMRE for the sixth grade
students in 1996; and (iii) urban areas in Montevideo or in the Interior Departments with the population
growth rate higher than the national average for the period from 1985 to 1996.
The Bank has received a list of 15 communities in which the location of the full time schools (both
conversion of existing schools and construction of new schools) will be selected. During the coming
months. the MECAEP team will be visiting these communities to evaluate the availability of land for
construction and also to evaluate the willingness of the community (teachers and families) to establish
full time schools. No resettlement is expected as a result of construction of new schools. The MECAEP
staff wilL also review population trend data to ensure that the expected demand for a new school in the
community is high.
2.2 Classroom Equipment and Learning Materials
To support the implementation of the new pedagogical model for full time schools, the project will
provide the following leaming materials and equipment to all of the existing, converted, and newly-
constructed full time schools: (a) library books; (b) workshop materials, (c) Learning Resources Center
(LRC), which is a new, expanded concept of a school library. The LRC will provide a diverse source of
information, including, magazines, videos, computers, and CD-Rom, among others; (d) informatics
equipment and software. The project will provide 2 to 3 computers (together with printers and CD-Rom)
per school; (e) Ludoteca; (vi) equipment for physical education; (f) kitchen equipment for serving the
school ltnch; and (g) didactic equipment for the exterior of the school, such as sundial, higrometro, and
playground.
2.3 Training and Technical Assistance to Schools
The project will provide training for a diverse set of personnel involved in the new pedagogical and
institutional model of the full time schools. They will include: (a) principals; (b) regular teachers of
preschool and elementary schools; (c) teachers of complementary classes, such as physical education,
complementary activities, and LRC; and (d) teachers in administrative positions.
Each training course will be designed for a group of about 65 people, with the duration of 150 hours, and
will be given in residential modules of 3 to 5 days for each module dispersed throughout the school year.
It is expected that a total of about 1,200 teachers and principals (600 from existing full time schools and
600 from new full time schools) will participate in the training.



Page 31
The content of the training will be organized along the following three themes: (i) socio-cultural
characteristics of the families in disadvantaged conditions and their implications for schools; (ii) the new
educational model and curriculum of full time schools; and (iii) upgrading of the knowledge and teaching
skills in various technical disciplines and workshops. It is important to note that, in addition to the
training described here, the new pedagogical mnodel for full time schools sets aside 2 1/2 hours per week
for teachers to meet for discussion, planning and evaluation of their work.
2.4 Studies
Under this sub-component, two studies will be conducted: (i) Qualitative Assessment of the Full Time
School Model Implementation; and (ii) Impact Evaluation of the Full Time School on Learning
Outcomes.
A qualitative survey and assessment on the "Perception of Teachers and Families on the Full Time
Schools" will be conducted during the third year of the project implementation (the second semester of
the year 2000). The objective of this study is to identify the level of satisfaction on the part of families
and teachers with the implementation of the new model of full time schools, and to find their opinions on
its strengths and weaknesses. The results of the study will be used by the teachers themselves as well as
by the MECAEP training unit to address any issues identified through the first stage of implementation
and to improve the implementation of the new model. This study will be conducted through eight
discussion groups of families whose children would have participated in the new model of full time
schools during 1999 and 2000, and six discussion groups of teachers from these same schools.
In years 2002-2003, ANEP will conduct an Impact Evaluation Study of the new model of full time
schools on children's learning. This study wil.l be based on achievement test results of students in the 2nd
and 6th grades. For the 6th graders, ANEP has already initiated a program of Universal Learning
Achievement Evaluation, which is to be conducted every three years (started in 1996). For the 2nd
graders, the UMRE will design a new achievernent test, which will be applied to the full time schools and
to a control group of children in double shift schools. Both for the 6th and the 2nd grades, the study will
compare the learning outcomes of those children that participated in full time programs and those who
did not, all from the group of socially disadvantaged families.
Along with the achievement test, survey questionnaires will be applied to families, teachers and
principals. This survey will collect information on the family and school characteristics that may affect
the learning outcomes of the children. In analyzing the test results, special attention will be paid to
control for these socio-cultural characteristics variables that may influence the learning. This information
will also allow the researchers to measure different levels of implementation of the new pedagogical
model, and analyze the results in terms of factors, such as teacher stability, repetition rates and attendance
rates.
Complementary to the impact evaluation study, and based on the results of the achievement test, ANEP
will concurrently conduct a Case Study of eight full time schools: four successful cases and four
unsuccessful cases. This case study will describe institutional and pedagogical characteristics of these
schools, thus helping to identify factors contributing to the success.



Page 32
2.5 Promotional Campaign
At the end of each school year, a special program of information dissemination and sensitization will be
conducted in those communities selected for the establishment of full time schools the following
academic year. These campaign programs will be carefully targeted, since the supply of the full time
schools will be limited throughout the implementation period of the project, and a significant amount of
demand is expected as the program gets under way.
The information campaign will be conducted through the existing schools, or other community centers, in
those cases when there is no existing school in the area. It will consist of a meeting for information
dissemination and discussion, and a printed material especially designed for families, which would
explain, in a clear and simple format, the changes implied by the proposed reform, its objectives, the new
curriculum of the full time school, and the benefits expected for the children.
2.6 Hiring of Teachers
Teachers will be hired for the full time schools created under the project. The salaries of the teachers will
be financed fully by ANEP's regular budget.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.5 million (3.5% of the total project cost.)
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND MONITORING
Since 1995, ANEP has been implementing the reform of managerial structure, tertiarization of auxiliary
services and medical leaves administration, and installation of a computerized management information
system, with tangible savings generated. This component will continue supporting the institutional
strengthening effort of the ANEP in the administration and monitoring of its programs. Specifically, the
component will finance: (a) operation of the MECAEP Project Coordination Unit; (b) technical assistance
to improve the financial management system of the PCU; and (c) technical assistance to strengthen
ANEP's capacity for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the reform programs both
quantitatively and qualitatively on an ongoing basis, which would include development and operation of a
system of program monitoring and evaluation, and study tours to learn from the experiences of other
countries in establishing such systems.



Page 33
Annex 3
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                Local      Foreign       Total
A. Universalization of Preschool Education       12.2         2.2          14.4
Classroom Construction                       8.0          2.1          10.1
Equipment and Didactic Materials             0.3           -           0.3
Training                                     0.2          0.1          0.3
Studies                                      0.1           -           0.1
Promotional Campaign for Parents and         0.1           -           0.1
Families
Hiring of Teachers                           3.5           -           3.5
B. Expansion of Access to Single Shift, Full time  17.9       3.5          21.4
Construction and Rehabilitation of Classrooms  12.5       3.4          15.9
Classroom Equipment and Learning Materials   2.2          0.1          2.3
Training and Technical Assistance to Schools  0.2          -           0.2
Promotional Campaign                         0.1           -           0.1
Studies and Monitoring                       0.2           -           0.2
Hiring of Teachers                           2.7           -           2.7
C. Project Administration and Monitoring          1.1         0.2           1.3
Total BASE LINE COST                             31.1         5.9          37.1
Physical Contingencies                        1.1         0.3          1.4
Price Contingencies                           1.3         0.2          1.5
Total Project Cost                               33.5          6.5         40.0



Page 34
Annex 4
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Economic and Fiscal Analysis Summary
I. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
With a total population of 3.2 million and a per capita income of US$ 5.2 thousand, Uruguay has social
indicators similar to those of developed countries. The mortality rate for under-five children is 20 per
thousand and life expectancy at birth is 73 years. In 1995, 94.2 percent of the population had access to
drinking water, and 92.5 percent to health services. In addition, Uruguay has one of the most egalitarian
income distributions in Latin America, with a Gini coefficient of 0.37. The country has also been very
successful in reducing urban poverty, from 22.3 percent in 1989 to 12.8% in 1994.
The high and early priority ascribed to education in Uruguay explains much of the country's good social
indicators. Therefore, although expenditures with education relative to government expenditure and to
GNP per capita are below the region's average (2.8% vs. 4%, respectively), Uruguay shows above-
average education indicators (e.g., gross enrollment rates of 95% in primary education and 60% in junior
secondary). Nonetheless, the education system still presents problems that need to be urgently tackled.
Repetition rates are very high in secondary education and in the first years of primary school. These high
repetition rates are mostly concentrated in schools located in poor areas, and reflect the low quality of
education received by poor students. Therefore, improving the education services provided to poor
households is necessary not only to reduce income inequality but also to increase the system's efficiency.
In 1995, the Government launched the Education Sector Reform Program, through which it plans to: (a)
increase social equity; (b) improve teacher training and the conditions under which the labor market for
the teaching profession operates; (c) improve the quality of education; (d) strengthen sector management
capacity; and (e) enhance the relevance of education to labor market requirements. To that end, it
proposes to: (i) expand coverage of pre-school education targeted to the poor; (ii) target improved quality
of basic education for the poor by shifting the system to single-shift schools; (iii) reach full coverage of
basic eclucation focusing on increasing attendance of children from poor families to grades 7-9; and (iv)
improve the relevance of upper secondary education, particularly in reference to the role of technical and
vocational education in an opening economy and a changing technological environment.
The Second Project for the Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education (MECAEP II) is a key
element of the Government's strategy. The project has three different components. The objective of the
first is to finance the increase enrollment in initial education. The second is directed at expanding
enrollment in full-time schools for initial and primary education. Both these components will target
students in the poorest households in the capital and the interior. The third component is concerned with
improving institutional management at the National Council of Public Education (Administraci6n
Nacional de Educaci6n Publica - ANEP).
The benefit of both the universalized preschool education and the adoption of the full-time school model
is expected to be a better cognitive and social development and improved scholastic achievement of the
participating children. The links between the access to pre-school education and better academic
performance in primary education, and between the single-shift, full-time curriculum and better academic
performance are both supported by the results of the achievement tests and accompanying survey



Page 35
conducted for all sixth grade students in October 1996. Mothers will also benefit directly by being able to
work, at least part time. The institutional strengthening component will help to ensure that the benefits
are indeed delivered. Last, but not least, the project has important merits accruing from its concern in
targeting the poorest households in the country.
In what follows we present the economic analysis of the first two components. Next section presents the
project's first component. Section 3 discusses the second component. In each case we start with a
discussion of the costs involved, proceed by presenting the expected benefits and finish with an analysis
of the economic rate of return.
B. Expanding Initial Education
Objectives
The objective of this component is to expand the coverage of initial education to children of age 4 and 5
who have not yet participated in preschool educations Through teacher training and adoption of new
curricula, not only the children gaining access to preschool education through the proposed project, but
also other children already enrolled will benefit from the quality improvement of the educational service
provided. This component has five different sub-components:
[1] Construction of classrooms. Construction of 200 classrooms to attend approximately 12,300 children
coming mostly from socially and economically depressed areas. Initially, 47 classrooms will be built to
integrate 2,820 children in a waiting list into the system. In a second phase, an additional 153 classrooms
will be built, benefiting some 9,480 children.
[2] Equipment and teaching materials. The same equipment used in project MECAEP I will be acquired,
including furniture, teaching materials, classroom libraries and outside games. Replacement of classroom
books for 100% of initial education courses is also included in this sub-component.
[3] Capacity building. A third sub-component encompasses different types of training courses, directed at
teachers in initial and primary education.
[4] Studies. Studies will be developed to (i) identify the families that do not send their children to school
and the reasons for that; and (ii) assess the impact of pre-school on student performance.
[5] Campaign of sensitization. A sensitization campaign to motivate parents will be conducted, focusing
on families that do not send their children to school.
Costs
The capital costs of this component include the construction of new classrooms and the acquisition of
equipment. The recurrent costs comprise expenses with teacher salaries, maintenance, the acquisition and
replacement of books and learning materials, the provision of food to students and others. Table 1
presents the evolution of these costs over the 1998-2045 period. In addition to the cost calculations used
in putting the project together, the following assumptions were made to build this Table:
[a] The annual depreciation rate for construction was assumed to be 1%, so that the negative value for
construction in 2045 is the residual value of thie stock of construction investment done in 1998-2002.
'In 1997, a total of 70,560 children were enrolled in preschool education.



Page 36
[b] It was assumed that all equipment (mainly school furniture) would be replaced in 2021-2024, and
would have zero residual value in 2045.
[c] Bookcs and learning materials would be replaced every four years.
In the first three years capital expenditures answer for the largest share of total costs, but their importance
declines already in 2002. From 2003 onwards all costs are recurrent, most stemming from the payment of
teacher salaries. Overall, the recurrent costs implied by the project fluctuate around US$ 2.3 million per
year, about two-thirds of which teacher salaries, with food expenses answering for the other third.
Benefits
The major benefit accruing from this component is an increase in equity, arising from better education
opportunities for poor students, and from better employment opportunities for both students and mothers
in these households. In fact, there is plenty of evidence that:
[1] Students coming from poor households present higher repetition rates and poorer performance than
those from better-off families;
[2] Attendance or not to pre-school is an important explanation of the probability of repetition and of the
extent of learning in primary education;
[3] Mothers in the lowest income quintiles show a lower participation in the labor force than those in the
highest quintiles;
[4] The cost to send their children to a private pre-school may be an important barrier preventing mothers
in the lowest income quintiles to work, given their relatively lower opportunity cost of staying at home
(relative to richer households, but not to their own household income).
To analyze the impact of initial education on repetition rates two logit models were estimated, one for
Montevideo, the other for the Interior. The two models were estimated for households with Unsatisfied
Basic Needs, which are the ones targeted by the project. The dependent variable was whether the student
had ever repeated a grade in primary school. The source of data was the 1996 Census of Education
Results, which contained information on students completing the sixth grade of primary education.



Page 37
Table 1: Costs in Component I (Initial Education) - 1998-2045
Capital                    Recurrent                                 Total
Total               Learning                 Other   Total Capital +
Year Constr. Equip. Capital Salaries Books Materials Mainten. Food   Recur.  Recur.  Recur.
1998  963.0    0.0  963.0    0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0   963.0
1999 2888.9  292.7 3181.6  216.0 10.8   48.0    0.0    132.1    6.0    412.9  3594.4
2000 2407.4  182.9 2590.3  619.2  6.8   30.0    3.0    352.2   16.0   1027.2  3617.5
2001  963.0   73.2 1036.1  1051.2  2.7   12.0    8.0    572.3   26.0   1672.2  2708.4
2002  963.0   73.2 1036.1  1267.2  2.7   12.0   13.0    660.4   30.0   1985.3  3021.4
2003    0.0   0.0   0.0  1440.0 10.8   48.0   15.0    748.4   34.0   2296.2  2296.2
2004    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2005    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2006    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2007    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2008    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2009    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2010    0.0   0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2011    0.0   0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2012    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2013    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2014    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0   748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2015    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2016    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0   748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2017    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2018    0.0   0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2019    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2020    0.0   0.0    0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2021    0.0  292.7  292.7  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2575.6
2022    0.0  182.9  182.9  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2465.9
2023    0.0   73.2   73.2  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2400.2
2024    0.0   73.2   73.2  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2378.2
2025    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2026    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2027    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0   748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2028    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0   748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2029    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2030    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2031    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0   748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2032    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2033    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2034    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2035    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2036    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2037    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2038    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2039    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2040    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2041    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2042    0.0    0.0   0.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  2282.9
2043    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8 10.8   48.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2327.0  2327.0
2044    0.0    0.0    0.0  1468.8  6.8   30.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2305.0  2305.0
2045 -5313.0    0.0 -5313.0  1468.8  2.7   12.0   17.0    748.4   34.0   2282.9  -3030.1



Page 38
The explanatory variables that showed statistical significance were attendance to preschool, availability of
books at home, whether or not the child worked at home or helped in outside activities, availability of
assets in the household, whether the child ate or had a glass of milk at school, and the result on the
language test. Boxes 1 and 2 present the models estimated for Montevideo and the Interior, respectively.
The variable "attendance to preschool" was found to be very significant. In Montevideo, the probability
of repetition falls by 10 percentage points in the presence of preschool education.2 In the Interior, the
probability of repetition falls by 11 percentage points in the presence of preschool. Both in Montevideo
and the Interior, the probability of a student repeating at least one time in primary education is around
50%. This suggests that introduction of initial education could reduce the probability of repetition in
primary school by a fifth. This contrasts with the figures used by van der Gaag and Tan (undated) in a
similar study for Bolivia, who estimated the introduction of preschool to cause repetition rates in primary
school to fall by 50%.3 We assume in the following analysis that repetition rates will fall by 35%, both in
Montevideo and the Interior, but conduct a sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of this variable on this
component's economic rate of return (ERR).
To estimate the impact of preschool on female participation in the labor force, we compared the
propensity to work of women with and without children in preschool age. In Table 2 we present the
proportion of women in Montevideo who work, broken down according to age, income quintile and
whether or not they have children aged 4 or 5 years. Table 3 presents similar results for the Interior.
Note that in both cases the proportion of women working goes up with income, even if some
discontinuities arise in cases in which the number of observations is small. In addition, note that for
women aged 20 to 39, in the two poorest quintiles, the proportion of women without children in preschool
age who work is 10.6 percentage points higher than for women with children in preschool age. For the
interior, the corresponding figure is 9.3 percentage points.
In order to estimate the impact of introducing initial education on the probability of a mother with a child
in preschool age to work we assumed that half of these children are already in preschool. We also
assumed that the propensity to work of women without children in preschool age and of mothers with
children enrolled in preschool is the same. Under these assumptions, introduction of preschool for
children in the poorest two quintiles increases the probability of a mother to work in 21.2 percentage
points in Montevideo and 18.6 percentage points in the Interior. We opted, however, to be conservative
and assume that participation would increase by only 16 and 12 percentage points in Montevideo and the
Interior, respectively.
To estimate the income to be earned by those mothers who wili start to work when their children enter
preschool we took the weighted average of the incomes of women aged 20 to 39 in the two poorest
quintiles (Tables 4 and 5). This average is equal to US$ 297.5 in Montevideo and US$ 159.9 in the
Interior. Again, to be conservative, we used monthly incomes 25% lower than these, that is, of US$ 238
and US$ 128 for Montevideo and the Interior, respectively.
2 This amount results from correcting the estimated impact of -0.3938 for the variance of the logistic distribution at
the mean of the variables.
3 van der Gaag, Jacques and Jee-Peng Tan, "The benefits of early childhood development programs: an economic
analysis", The World Bank, undated.



Page 39
Box 1: Model for Montevideo
The data used in estimating the model included all information available for children in households wit}
Unsatisfied Basic Needs, and for which the results were not contaminated with irregularities. Below are
the key statistical results of the model for Montevideo.
Dependent Variable..   REPITIO
Beginning Block Number 0. Initial Log Likelihood Function
-2 Log Likelihood   1817.5524
* Constant is included in the modiel.
Beginning Block Number 1. Method: Enter
Variable(s) Entered on Step Number
1..       PREESC
OCUPJ     OCUPACION DEL JEFE
LIBROS
LENGUAST
TRABAJA
TC
F31       Equipamiento
F20
Estimation terminated at iteration number 3 because
Log Likelihood decreased by less :han .01 percent.
-2 Log Likelihood      1672.965
Goodness of Fit        1312.501
Chi-Square    df Significance
Model Chi-Square         144.587     8         .0000
Improvement             144.587      8         .0000
Classification Table for REPITIO
Predicted
.00    1.00     Percent Correct
0       1
Observed          ---------------
.00      0   1 373  1 254  I   59.49%
._______._______.
1.00     1   1 231  1 455  1   66.33%
Overall  63.06%
---------------------- Variables in the Equation ---------------------
Variable            B       S.E.     Wald    df        Sig       R   Exp(B)
PREESC         -.3938      .1679   5.5022      1    .0190  -.0439    .6745
OCUPJ          -.1349      .1386    .9471      1    .3305   .0000    .8738
LIBROS         -.0940      .0444   4.4838      1    .0342  -.0370    .9103
LENGUAST       -.3085      .0665  21.5085      1    .0000  -.1036    .7345
TRABAJA         .6367      .1222  27.1372      1    .0000   .1176   1.8902
TC             -.1465      .3174    .2131      1    .6443   .0000    .8637
F31            -.1134      .0294  14.8440      1    .0001  -.0841    .8928
F20            -.1103      .0474   5.4081      1    .0200  -.0433    .8955
Constant       1.3842      .2570  29.0014      1    .0000



Page 40
Box 2: Model for the Interior:
Dependent Variable..   REPITIO
Beginning Block Number 0. Initial Log Likelihood Function
-2 Log Likelihood   7065.2796
* Constant is included in the model.
Beginning Block Number 1. Method: Enter
Variable(s) Entered on Step Number
1..       PREESC
OCUPJ     OCUPACION DEL JEFE
LIBROS
LENGUAST
TRABAJA
TC
F31       Equipamiento
F20
Estimation terminated at iteration number 3 because
Log Likelihood decreased by less than .01 percent.
-2 Log Likelihood       6459.217
Goodness of Fit         5122.740
Chi-Square    df Significance
Model Chi-Square         606.063      8         .0000
Improvement              606.063      8         .0000
Classification Table for REPITIO
Predicted
.00    1.00      Percent Correct
0  1    1
Observed          ----------------
.00      0   1 2059 1   758 1   73.09%
1.00     1   1  1050 1  1265 1   54.64%
Overall  64.77%
----------------     -- Variables in the Equation -----------------------
Variable            B       S.E.      Wald    df       Sig        R   Exp(B)
PREESC         -.4297      .0686  39.2766      1    .0000  -.0726    .6507
OCUPJ          -.2724      .0710  14.7369       1    .0001  -.0425    .7615
LIBROS         -.1414      .0220  41.1251       1    .0000  -.0744    .8682
LENGUAST       -.3899      .0332 138.2930       1    .0000  -.1389    .6771
TRABAJA         .4641      .0608  58.2059       1    .0000   .0892   1.5905
TC              .3682      .1567   5.5222       1    .0188   .0223   1.4451
F31            -.0750      .0159  22.1425       1    .0000  -.0534    .9278
F20            -.1042      .0216  23.2939       1    .0000  -.0549    .9011
Constant        .9102      .1089  69.8209       1    .0000



Page 41
Table 2: Proportion of Women Employed by Age, Income Quintile and Whether or not with Children in
Preschool Age - Montevideo, 1996.
Age                                      Total
14 to 19    20 to 29    30 to 39    40 to 49    50 or more
First Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .406         .685         .738        .667         .379         .561
Valid N                  N=517        N=387       N=401        N=411       N=454       N=2170
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .355         .603         .608        .663         .486        .560
Valid N                  N=110        N=232       N=186         N=89        N=72        N=689
Second Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .380         .800        .802         .756         .406        .614
Valid N                  N=332       N=475        N=348        N=438       N=662       N=2255
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .500         .701        .733         .781         .516        .689
Valid N                   N=20         N=77       N=120         N=32        N=31        N=280
Third Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .324         .842         .856        .781         .447        .642
Valid N                  N=238        N=423       N=291        N=388       N=640       N=1980
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .000         .611         .848        .773         .389        .722
Valid N                    N=6         N=36       N=105         N=22        N=18        N=187
Fourth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .227         .862         .874        .822         .465        .650
Valid N                  N=185       N=355        N=269        N=338       N=623       N=1770
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .200         .857         .838        .824         .500         .798
Valid N                    N=5         N=28        N=68         N=17         N=6        N=124
Fifth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .178         .857         .885        .838         .575        .701
Valid N                  N=118        N=328       N=287        N=290       N=650       N=1673
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .556         .857         .823        .941         .500         .811
Valid N                    N=9         N=14        N=62         N=17         N=4        N=106
Total
Mean                          .345        .781         .801        .764         .460         .632
Valid N                   N=1540       N=2355      N=2137       N=2042      N=3160      N=11234
-----------------------------------------..-------------------__-------------__------------------



Page 42
Table 3: Proportion of Women Employed by Age, Income Quintile and Whether or not with Children in
Preschool Age - Interior, 1996.
Age                                      Total
-------------------------------------------------------------------__
14 to 19    20 to 29    30 to 39    40 to 49    50 or more
First Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .349         .572         .525        .527         .317         .449
Valid N                  N=524        N=353       N=408        N=370       N=394       N=2049
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .299         .444         .468        .509         .283         .416
Valid N                  N=174       N1311        N=284        N=114         N=99       N=982
Second Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .292         .670         .655        .625         .287         .486
Valid N                  N=373        N=364       N=339        N=397        N=540      N=2013
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .246         .611         .620        .564         .340         .532
Valid N                   N=61        N=149       N=142         N=78         N=47       N=477
Third Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                        .267        .675         .711        .649         .277         .491
Valid N                  N=307        N=332       N=291        N=399        N=560      N=1889
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .233         .759         .722        .615         .476         .628
Valid N                   N=30         N=79        N=90         N=52         N=42       N=293
Fourth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                        .282        .754         .803        .740         .353         .546
Valid N                  N=220        N=256       N=228        N=346        N=631      N=1681
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .111         .641         .750        .643         .478         .614
Valid N                   N=18         N=39        N=76         N=28         N=23       N=184
Fifth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                       .139         .763         .931        .778         .442         .588
Valid N                  N=122        N=232       N=173        N=288        N=681      N=1496
With children in preschool age
Mean                       .333         .792         .780        .857         .077         .682
Valid N                    N=6         N=24        N=50         N=14         N=13       N=107
Total
Mean                          .289        .642         .658         .645        .342         .506
Valid N                   N=1835       N=2139      N=2081       N=2086       N=3030     N=11171



Page 43
Table 4: Income in the Main Occupation of Women by Age, Income Quintile and Whether or not with
Children in Preschool Age - Montevideo, 1996.
Age                                      Total
--------------_.---------------------------------------------------__-
14 to 19    20 to 29    30 to 39    40 to 49    50 or more
First Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                    997.602    1687.369    1939.772    1842.460    1546.129    1693.392
Std. dev.               784.587    104:3.820    1299.150    1182.032    1319.646    1205.186
Valid N                   N=98        N=176       N=228        N=226       N=140        N=868
With children in preschool age
Mean                   1250.524    1812.233    2151.802    1735.438    2055.741    1887.963
Std. dev.              1389.200    1271.373    1253.310    1402.760    1325.265    1319.041
Valid N                   N=21         N=86        N=86         N=48        N=27        N=268
Second Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                   1475.093    232:3.369    2876.498    2840.646    2124.642    2470.745
Std. dev.               920.214    1222.336    1671.128    1862.868    1381.448    1572.250
Valid N                   N=75        N=295       N=233        N=294       N=246       N=1143
With children in preschool age
Mean                   1997.714    272:3.775    3204.697    2983.571    2884.692    2972.280
Std. dev.               287.823    13513.063    1838.517    1310.838    2428.539    1687.820
Valid N                    N=7         N=40        N=76         N=21        N=13        N=157
Third Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                   1863.909    289:3.340    3793.863    3578.625    2730.190    3170.172
Std. dev.              1587.861    1525.637    2058.521    1950.713    1955.386    1917.672
Valid N                   N=44        N=312       N=226        N=285       N=258       N=1125
With children in preschool age
Mean                           .   3222.412    4774.976    3548.733    5151.833    4426.402
Std. dev.                     .    1816.238    2877.789    2226.254    6235.241    2950.693
Valid N                                N=17        N=84         N=15         N=6        N=122
Fourth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                   1744.077    3655.951    5120.973    5213.461    4131.631    4429.605
Std. dev.              1592.938    2124.453    3113.797    3345.782    2830.953    2951.784
Valid N                   N=26       N1=266       N=226        N=258       N=279       N=1055
With children in preschool age
Mean                   3500.000    5050.636    5534.204    8210.643    5303.667    5790.649
Std. dev.                     .    312:3.493    3239.173    6295.602    6768.001    3977.595
Valid N                    N=1         N=22        N=54         N=14         N=3         N=94
Fifth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                   2182.294    5253.690    7427.718    8634.423    7203.063    7035.042
Std. dev.              1493.531    4526.586    5217.390    6958.994    6621.600    6061.996
Valid N                   N=17        N=258       N=248        N=239       N=364       N=1126
With children in preschool age
Mean                   2496.000    3853.750    7993.471    8078.563    7863.000    7163.282
Std. dev.              1270.301    2533.113    5524.763    7137.100    1414.214    5601.902
Valid N                    N=4         N=12        N=51         N=16          N=2        N=85
Total
Mean                     1455.915    3161.406    4302.608    4324.539    4016.220    3826.064
Std. dev.                1205.528    2649.994    3611.678    4281.372    4432.232    3768.274



Page 44
Table 5: Income in the Main Occupation of Women by Age, Income Quintile and Whether or not with
Children in Preschool Age - Urban Interior, 1996.
Age                                       Total
14 to 19    20 to 29    30 to 39    40 to 49    50 or more
First Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                     610.892      930.443      935.589    1048.402       896.855      907.458
Std. dev.                448.450      705.289      830.780      836.807      754.239      759.683
Valid N                   N=102        N=131        N=163        N=169        N=1l0        N=675
With children in preschool age
Mean                     820.240      970.587    1084.108    1366.882    1384.593    1102.606
Std. dev.                598.945      875.762      914.854    1061.426    1145.972        942.166
Valid N                    N=25         N=92        N=102         N=51         N=27        N=297
Second Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                     757.400    1413.261    1570.904    1627.950    1310.043    1443.982
Std. dev.                551.611      904.742    1193.305    1253.471    1069.001    1114.146
VaLid N                    N=60        N=180        N=197        N=220        N=140        N=797
With children in preschool age
Mean                    1056.900    1539.971    2002.514    1963.854    1165.813    1729.000
Std. dev.                766.441    1157.796    1395.488    1498.118         988.045    1315.542
Valid N                    N=10         N=69         N=70         N=41         N=16        N=206
Third Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                     988.776    1846.517    2322.033    2312.053    1808.437    2040.469
Std. dev.                847.626    1142.218    1394.064    1468.754    1481.203    1398.812
Valid N                    N=49        N=176        N=184        N=246        N=142        N=797
With children in preschool age
Mean                     668.750    2062.255    2546.081    2174.793    2840.056    2316.445
Std. dev.                979.238    1078.105    1377.993    1370.712    1858.207    1381.455
Valid N                     N=4         N=51         N=62         N=29         N=18        N=164
Fourth Quintile
Without children in preschool age
Mean                    1020.780    2163.963    3197.839    2912.895    2165.156    2545.573
Std. dev.                727.557    1249.775    1998.830    1724.206    1696.193    1751.612
Valid N                    N=41        N=160        N=174        N=247        N=212        N=834
With children in preschool age
Mean                    1826.000    2831.174    3558.321    3438.313    3109.091    3300.695
Std. dev.                193.747    1257.641    2159.871    2115.040    2784.622    2046.814
Valid N                     N=2         N=23         N=53         N=16         N=11        N=105
Fifth Quintile
Without: children in preschool age
Mean                    1792.308    3493.350    7234.517    5182.063    3470.031    4578.088
Stcl. dev.              1801.537    3185.561   32331.535    4615.765    2734.950   14287.120
Valid N                    N=13        N=157        N=151        N=208        N=289        N=818
With children in preschool age
Mean                    1848.000    2937.222    5955.105    5358.000            .000    4875.942
Stcl. dev.              1269.964    2466.571    4686.315    2849.694               .    4107.113
Valid N                     N=2         N=18         N=38         N=10          N=1         N=69
Total
Mean                       852.127    1906.023    2815.374    2605.771    2217.462    2310.811
Std. dev.                  756.730    1776.650   11734.966    2653.597    2115.439    6183.954



Page 45
We estimate next the benefits accruing from the reduction in costs due to lower enrollment in primary
education and the increased output generated from larger female participation in the labor force. The
benefits arising from this component, using the assumptions previously stated, are presented in Table 6.
What one observes is that about 81% of the benefits accrue from the higher income of mothers, with the
remaining 19% coming from reduced costs of the public sector with the students. Net benefits become
positive already in 2003. The economic rate of return (ERR) that results from this flow of net benefits
equals 24.9%.
The economic analysis presented in this section is focused on those benefits that can reasonably be
quantified. It is important, though, to at least mention two hard-to-quantify benefits of this component.
First, the reduction in repetition and dropout rates in secondary education, which are very high, as a result
of the improvement in the quality of preschool education received. Second, that students will enter the
labor market at an earlier age. Finally, we did. not quantify the improvements in learning outcomes that
appears to be taking place in primary schools, as a result of preschool education, but which have not been
summarized into lower repetition rates.
In sum, this project's component will enhance equity because it will allow the poorest households to
increase their income. Directly, by allowing mothers to work. Indirectly, by allowing students to get a
better education (possibly advancing in larger numbers to higher education levels) and to enter the labor
market sooner. Moreover, it will have an effiect on national income arising from the freeing up of
resources currently consumed by the students who remain longer than necessary in school.
Sensitivity Analysis
We conducted two exercises to assess how robust these results were:
[1] A Monte Carlos analysis, with 4,000 runs, to estimate the distribution of the economic rate of return
(ERR), given a set of assumptions about the distributions of the parameters of the model (e.g., the impact
on repetition rates); and
[2] A sensitivity analysis, to identify the critical assumptions in the analysis.
In Table 7 we present the values of the main parameters used in this economic analysis for the initial
education component, together with their assumed distributions. These distributions were assumed
symmetric with respect to the value of the parameter adopted in the previous section, except for the
distribution of income, for which we analyzed the actual distribution, which proved to be lognormal.
Almost 8.9% of the runs in the Monte Carlo analysis resulted in cases for which the ERR was not well
defined. Typically these were cases for which salaries in Montevideo and the interior were low and the
share of schools in the interior was high. We may conservatively assume that the resulting distribution of
the economic rate of return is a truncated distribution, that cuts off negative values of the ERR. The
results show that this truncated distribution is highly positive skewed (Table 8 and Graph 1), indicating
the importance of salaries earned by mothers in determining total benefits. From these results we have
that there is an approximate 73.8% probabilily that the economic rate of return for this component is
above 10%.4 Obviously, the expected value of ERR for the truncated distribution is higher than the point
estimate of 24.9%.
4 This is calculated as one minus 0.089 (=Prob[ERR>0]) times 0.81 (the approximate trucated probability of ERR
being above 10%).



Page 46
Table 6: Benefits stemming from larger female participation in labor force and reduced costs in primary
education (US$ thousand)
Reduced  Increase in
Public    Mothers'    Total      Net
Year     Costs    Incomes   Benefits    Benefits
1998          0,0       0,0       0,0      -963,0
1999          0,0     755,2     755,2    -2839,2
2000          8,2    1972,0    1980,2    -1637,3
2001         15,3    3188,7    3203,9       495,6
2002         21,4    3692,2    3713,5       692,1
2003         28,1    4195,6    4223,7      1927,5
2004         36,1    4195,6    4231,7      1926,7
2005         46,2    4195,6    4241,8      1958,9
2006        175,6    4195,6    4371,2      2088,3
2007        419,5    4195,6    4615,1      2288,1
2008        690,6    4195,6    4886,2      2581,3
2009        845,1    4195,6    5040,8      2757,8
2010        961,1    4195,6    5156,7      2873,8
2011        987,4    4195,6    5183,1      2856,0
2012        992,3    4195,6    5188,0      2883,0
2013        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2014        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2015        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2016        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2017        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2018        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2019        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2020        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2021        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2612,6
2022        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2722,4
2023        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2788,1
2024        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2810,1
2025        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2026        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2027        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2028        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2029        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2030        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2031        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2032        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2033        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2034        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2035        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2036        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2037        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2038        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2039        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2040        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2041        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2042        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2905,3
2043        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2861,2
2044        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      2883,3
2045        992,6    4195,6    5188,3      8218,3



Page 47
Table 7: Basic assumptions in the estimation of the economic rate of return for the initial education
component
Parameter                Value     Distribution    Comments
Proportion of schools in  0.50     Ul0.25, 0.75]
Montevideo
Reduction  in  repetition  0.35    U[0.20, 0.50]   Identical  but  independent  distributions
rates                                             assumed for all grades in primary education.
% of mothers entering labor  0.16  N(0.16, 0.03)
market - Montevideo
% of mothers entering labor  0.12  N(0.12, 0.03)
market - Interior
Salaries  in  Montevideo  297.5  LN(297.5, 185.6) Estimated from the actual salary distribution
(US$/month)                                       for women aged 20 to 39 in the two poorest
quintiles in Montevideo.
Salaries   in   Interior  160.0  LN(160.0, 124.1) Estimated from the actual salary distribution
(US$/month)                                       for aged 20 to 39 in the two poorest quintiles
in the Interior.
Students benefited       10470                    Assumed 5235 students in each grade
To overcome the interpretation problems caused by the relatively high proportion of undefined values of
ERR, we also carried out a Monte Carlo analysis for the present value (PV) of net benefits considering a
discount rate of 10%. The empirical distribution for PV with 4,000 runs is presented in Graph 2, from
which we can derive that there is a 74.7% probability of this component having a positive present value
when using a 10% annual discount rate.
Table 8: Initial Education -- Basic statistics for the distribution of the economic rate of return
Minimum = 1,3%                 Variance = 0,07
Maximum = 343,1%,/o           Skewness = 2,76
Mean = 29,2%               Kurtosis = 16,61
Std Deviation = 26,5%               Mode = 17,7%
5% Perc = 5,0%               55% Perc = 23,7%
10% Perc = 7,0%               60% Perc = 26,3%
15% Perc = 8,8%               65% Perc = 29,7%
20% Perc = 10,4%              70% Perc = 33,4%
25% Perc = 11,9%              75% Perc = 37,3%
30% Perc = 13,6%              80% Perc = 42,8%
35% Perc = 15,6%              85% Perc = 49,9%
40% Perc = 17,5%              90% Perc = 59,0%
45% Perc = 19,5%              95% Perc = 79,0%
50% Perc = 21,4%



Page 48
Graph 1: Truncated Distribution of the Economic Rate of
Return -- Initial Education
0,16   X    X       E               iK'
0,14   44.~~4'
0 12 *0   7li47'i,1 l
: 006i    F    E
0,0%              50,0%              100,0%             150,0% 4
{                            ~~~~~~ERR 
|Graph 2: Initial Education Component -- Distributionl
|        ~~of Present Value with Discount Rate of 10%l
-5008  .          0 .4Th .  .       0        10000          100
002          4.~.44    4'.4
L                          ~~~~~PV  
We also conducted a sensitivity analysis to assess to which of the above assumptions was the economic
rate of return most sensitive. We concluded that the three most important parameters were the proportion
of schools in Montevideo and the salaries earned by women in the capital and the interior. For the



Page 49
samples in our Monte Carlo analysis in which the ERR was in the tenth decile, the median of these three
parameters were, respectively, 65.12%, US$ 574.99 and US$ 198.25.
C. Increasing the Number of Full-time Schools
Objectives
Together with the extension of the coverage of initial education, the Government plans to increase equity
in the access to education through an increase in the number of students from poor households attending
public full-time schools (FTS).
In Uruguay, most public schools operate in shifts of four hours per day. In the private sector, however, an
increasing number of schools is moving to seven- and eight-hour turns. In 1992 an effort was initiated to
expand the daily number of hours in some public schools in the poorest areas. To that end, 58 FTS were
established. In 1996, 9554 students attended these schools. However, this effort has suffered from a lack
of institutional support. Frequently, these FTS are no more than old open or rural schools, with low
enrollment and lack of capacity to expand. Since 1995, through an initiative of the Council of Primary
Education, an attempt at defining a pedagogical and organizational model for these schools has been
done.
Despite the lack of definition and good physical infrastructure, the academic results of the FTS indicate
that the model has been effective. The average performance of students from these schools in Maternal
Language has exceeded the performance of students in comparable schools. For the "unfavorable
background", FTS have shown an average of 60.7 against 48.5 in two-shift schools, a performance that
has even exceeded that of two-shift "average background" schools (60.7 versus 58.4).
The target population of this component is a total of about 18,000 students between age of 4 and 11 in
poor households and attending schools categorized as "very disadvantaged," who will be incorporated
into the new full-time school model. These 18,000 children represent about 20% of the preschool and
primary school age children in a condition of poverty. These children will attend preschool or primary
schools with a full school day of 7 hours. Wlhen we include the number of children with access to full
time schools in the existing 58 full-time schools and "jardines asistenciales," a grand total of about 33,500
children from 4 to 11 years old will be enrollled in full time schools. This represents about one third of
the target age cohorts in poverty, and about 10% of the total enrollment of these grades in urban public
schools.
This project component will support the preparation of the physical infrastructure and the furniture
necessary to accomplish the targets lay down according to the established institutional and pedagogical
model. The preparation starts with the existing schools and continues through the provision of new
schools, according to three modalities:
(a) Adaptation of the existing full-time schools. It will be necessary to adapt the infrastructure of the
existing 58 FTS, given their precarious physical conditions. The effort of adaptation includes the
expansion and improvement of the existing facilities;
(b) Transformation of two-shift schools into FTS. To move the students enrolled in one of the shifts to
new FTS, the project establishes the transformation of approximately 25 two-shift schools into FTS.
(c) Construction of new FTS. Approximately 280 new classrooms will be built for FTS, according to a
basic school model with 8 to 10 classrooms for ordinary education. The location of these schools will



Page 50
be defined to favor: (i) students with poor academic performance; (ii) poverty-stricken areas; and (iii)
reg ions with rapid demographic growth.
Furthermore, this component will furnish equipment and teaching materials to the schools, train teachers
and other school personnel, encourage community participation and develop studies to monitor and assess
the impact of project.
Costs
The assumptions adopted to estimated the capital and recurrent costs of this component in 1998-2045
were essentially the same used for the previous component. Note, though, that we only considered the
expenses with FTS for primary education - that answer for 75% of the total. That is, we do not consider
in our analysis the classrooms and implied recurrent expenditures for FTS for students in initial
education. As shown in Table 9, in 1998-2002, when the project will be implemented, construction costs
are the main source of expenditures. Total costs peak at 2002, when construction is still under way, but
most schools are already in operation. From 2003 onwards, most costs are recurrent and result essentially
from paying teacher salaries. Note that as in the analysis of the first component we did not consider
opportunity costs in our cost calculations, as beneficiaries will be all below 11 years of age, and these
children do not work in Uruguay.
Benefits
As in the previous component, the main beneficiaries of the expansion in coverage of FTS are the
students and their parents. The first group of students will enroll for the first time in primary education in
1999, the first year the new schools will be operating, and complete sixth grade in 2004. These children
and their families will benefit from the better education they receive and from. the opportunity open to
their mothers to work. Conservatively, we assumed that 14% and 10% of the mothers of these students,
in Montevideo and the Interior, respectively, will enter the labor market as a result of their children
entering FTS. We assumed that they will earn monthly incomes of US$ 297.5 and US$ 160.0 in
Montevideo and the Interior, respectively.
In addition, we also assumed that repetition rates will drop as a result of the better education received by
these children. In our logit analysis, the variable "full-time education" was not found to be statistically
significant, even though the model lost predictive power when this variable was excluded. Further
analysis of the data and site visits to schools revealed the likely reasons for the lackluster results. First,
FTS are mostly located in poor neighborhoods, where the repetition rates are very high. Second, just 2%
of the students covered by the census attended FTS, causing this variable to have a low variance. Third,
there are rigidities in repetition rates; teachers tend to grade on a curve, so some of the impact of
improved learning might not be directly translated into lower repetition rates. Fourth, FTS are recognized
by parents to provide better education for their children (and benefits to aspiring working mothers) and
thus have experienced a higher than normal inflow of students from regular schools. These new entrants
to FTS have repetition rates substantially higher than the average student in FTS and cause the average
repetition in FTS to decline. In a sample of schools visited, once we extract the new entrants to FTS,
repetition rates decline markedly. A comparison of repetition rates in schools, before (1992) and after
they had become single-shift, shows a definite downward trend in repetition. More importantly, the share
of students in 6e grade performing at a level satisfactory and above in Spanish and Math increased
significantly in these schools.



Page 51
Table 9: Costs in Component 2 - 1998-2045
Capital                           Recurrent                              Total
Total                   Learning             Other    Total  Capital +
Year   Constr.  Equip.  Capital  Salaries  Books  Materials  Mainten.  Recur.   Recur.   Recur.
1998  817778             817778                                                         817778
1999 2044445   117073 2161518   123744   4860         3585                     132189 2293707
2000 2453333   156098 2609431   313485   6480         4780    3600       1125  329470 2938901
2001 2453333   234146 2687479  593971   9720          7170     8400    2625   621886 3309365
2002 2453333   234146 2687479   890957   9720         7170    15600    4875   928322 3615801
2003            234146  234146  10228:22   9720       7170   22800    7125  1069637  1303783
2004                             1039296   4860       3585    30000     9375  1087116  1087116
2005                             1039296   6480       4780   30000      9375  1089931  1089931
2006                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2007                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2008                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2009                             1039296   4860       3585    30000     9375  1087116  1087116
2010                             1039296   6480       4780    30000     9375  1089931  1089931
2011                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2012                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2013                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2014                             1039296   4860       3585    30000     9375  1087116  1087116
2015                             1039296   6480       4780    30000     9375  1089931  1089931
2016                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2017                             1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2018                             1039296   9720       7170   30000      9375  1095561  1095561
2019                             1039296   4860       3585    30000     9375  1087116  1087116
2020                             1039296   6480       4780    30000     9375  1089931  1089931
2021            117073   117073  1039296   9720       7170    30000     9375  1095561  1212634
2022            156098   156098  1039296   9720       7170   30000      9375  1095561  1251659
2023            234146  234146  1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1329707
2024            234146  234146  1039296   4860        3585    30000     9375  1087116  1321262
2025            234146  234146  1039296   6480        4780    30000     9375  1089931  1324077
2026                          0 1039296   9720        7170   30000      9375  1095561  1095561
2027                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2028                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2029                          0 1039296   4860        3585    30000     9375  1087116  1087116
2030                          0 1039296   6480        4780   30000      9375  1089931  1089931
2031                          0 1039296   9720        7170   30000      9375  1095561  1095561
2032                          0 1039296   9720        7170   30000      9375  1095561  1095561
2033                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2034                          0 1039296   4860        3585    30000     9375  1087116 1087116
2035                          0 1039296   6480        4780   30000      9375  1089931  1089931
2036                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000      9375  1095561  1095561
2037                          0 1039296   9720        7170   30000       9375  1095561  1095561
2038                          0 1039296   9720        7170   30000      9375  1095561  1095561
2039                          0 1039296   4860        3585    30000     9375  1087116  1087116
2040                          0 1039296   6480        4780   30000      9375  1089931  1089931
2041                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2042                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2043                          0 1039296   9720        7170    30000     9375  1095561  1095561
2044                          0 1039296   4860        3585    30000     9375  1087116 1087116
2045 -6635271          -6635271  1039296   6480       4780   30000      9375  1089931 -5545340



Page 52
In this way, the information available is not sufficient to get a good estimate of the impact of attending
FTS on the probability of repetition. For our analysis, based on the limited sample of schools visited, we
have calculated the reduction in repetition that would occur without new entrants and assumed a 10%
reduction in repetition rates in Montevideo and a 15% reduction in the Interior as a result of the
introduction of FTS.
The benefits estimated for this component are presented in Table 10. Most benefits stem from the
opportunity open to mothers to work, in this case even to larger proportion than in the previous
component. Only 7% of the benefits arise from the lower public costs that result from the reduction in
enrollment, that is a consequence of the fall in repetition rates. Already in 2003, when the expenses with
construction are over, the net benefits become positive. In steady state, the net benefits of this component
are slightly less than US$ 3 million a year. The economic rate of return of this component is 33.3%.
Again, note that we did not consider in our analysis some hard-to-quantify benefits, such as the reduction
in repetition rates in secondary education and in the age with which these students enter the labor market.
Neither did we quantify the benefits that arise from the improvement in income distribution. Also,
because completion rates in primary education are already very high, we did not consider any effect of
higher initial education coverage on dropout rates. However, because frequent repetition is a major cause
for dropping out of school, dropout rates should fall, reducing the number of cases in which expenses are
carried out with students who do not absorb much education at school. Most importantly, we did not
quantify the improvements in learning outcomes that appear to be taking place in FTS, but which have not
been summarized into lower repetition rates.
Sensitivity Analysis
We also conducted Monte Carlo and sensitivity analyses to estimate the distribution of the economic rate
of return and to assess how robust the results were to changes in the main assumptions underlying our
economic analysis. In Table 11 we present a summary of the values and distributions used in these
exercises. For this component the ERR was not well defined only in 1. 1% of the cases, so we may use
the "truncated" distribution as a sufficiently close approximation of the distribution of ERR.
The results of the Monte Carlo simulations are presented in Table 12 and Graph 3. They show that the
distribution of ERR is highly skewed, reflecting the influence of mothers' salaries on the economic rate of
return. They also indicate that there is a higher than 90% probability that the ERR is above 10%.
Our sensitivity analysis indicated that the four most influential parameters in the analysis are, in this
order, the proportion of schools in Montevideo (because women in Montevideo earn more and participate
in the labor market in larger proportions than in the Interior), the salaries received by women in
Montevideo and in the Interior, and the proportion of mothers in Montevideo who will enter the labor
force as a result of their children being in full-time schools. For the simulations in which ERR was in the
highest decile - that is, it was higher than 34.5% -- the medians of these variables were, respectively,
60.2%, US$ 558.42, US$ 206.73 and 15.5%.



Page 53
Table 10: Full-time schools -- Benefits stemming from larger female participation in labor force
and reduced costs in primary education (US$ thousand)
Reduced  Increase in
Public    Mothers'    Total     Net
Year     Costs    Incomes   Benefits   Benefits
1998         0,0        0,0       0,0     -817,8
1999         0,4)     560,5     560,5    -1733,2
2000          3,13    1307,9    1311,7    -1627,2
2001          6,9)   2429,0    2435,8      -873,5
2002          9,35   3550,0    3559,3      -56,5
2003         11,8    4671,1    4682,9      3379,1
2004         14,2    4671,1    4685,3      3598,2
2005         16,7    4671,1    4687,8      3597,8
2006         41,,2    4671,1    4712,2     3616,7
2007         80,0    4671,1    4751,1      3655,5
2008        137,5    4671,1    4808,6      3713,1
2009        200,9    4671,1    4872,0      3784,8
2010        263,3    4671,1    4934,4      3844,5
2011        280,4t   4671,1    4951,5      3856,0
2012        284,:1    4671,1    4955,2     3859,6
2013        284,'7    4671,1    4955,8     3860,2
2014        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3868,7
2015        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3865,9
2016        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2017        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2018        284,7    4671,1    4955,8     3860,2
2019        284,7    4671,1    4955,8     3868,7
2020        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3865,9
2021        284,7    4671,1    4955,8     3743,2
2022        284,7    4671,1    4955,8     3704,1
2023        284,7    4671,1    4955,8     3626,1
2024        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3634,5
2025        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3631,7
2026        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2027        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2028        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2029        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3868,7
2030        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3865,9
2031        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2032        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2033        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2034        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3868,7
2035        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3865,9
2036        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2037        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2038        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2039        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3868,7
2040        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3865,9
2041        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2042        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2043        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3860,2
2044        284,7    4671,1    4955,8      3868,7
2045        284,7    4671,1    4955,8    10501,1



Page 54
Table 11: Basic assumptions in the estimation of the economic rate of return for the full-time school
component
Parameter               Value   Distribution     Comments
Proportion of schools in    0.50    U[0.25, 0.75]
Montevideo
Reduction in repetition  0.20    U[0. 10, 0.30]    Identical but independent distributions
rates - Montevideo                               assumed for all grades in primary education.
Reduction in repetition  0.25    U[0.15, 0.35]    Identical but independent distributions
rates - Interior                                 assumed for all grades in primary education.
% of mothers entering labor 0.14    N(0.14, 0.03)
market -- Montevideo
% of mothers entering labor 0.10    N(0.10, 0.03)
market - Interior
Salaries in Montevideo  297.5   LN(297.5, 185.6) Estimated from the actual salary distribution
(US$/month)                                      for women aged 20 to 39 in the two poorest
quintiles in Montevideo.
Salaries in Interior     160.0   LN(160.0, 124.1) Estimated from the actual salary distribution
(US$/month)                                      for aged 20 to 39 in the two poorest quintiles
in the Interior.
Students benefited       13500                   One sixth in each grade of primary education
Table 12: Full-Time Education -- Basic statistics for the distribution of the economic rate of return
Minimum = 3.2%                 Variance = 0.07
Maximum = 293.8%              Skewness = 2.55
Mean = 34.7%                Kurtosis = 14.20
Std Deviation = 26.8%               Mode = 12.1%
5% Perc = 8.3%               55% Perc = 30.0%
10% Perc = 11.0%              60% Perc = 32.6%
15% Perc = 13.1%              65% Perc = 36.0%
20% Perc = 15.2%              70% Perc = 39.9%
25% Perc = 17.1%              75% Perc = 43.8%
30% Perc = 19.3%              80% Perc = 49.1%
35% Perc = 21.5%              85% Perc = 55.4%
40% Perc = 23.4%              90% Perc = 65.5%
45% Perc = 25.4%              95% Perc = 84.2%
50% Perc = 27.5%



Page 55
Graph 3: Full-Time School Component - Distribution
Grap  3:of the Economic Rate of Return
0,14
*, 0,10   *      : ' '
~0,08 
0,06                   .*
v 0,04
0,02                                          
0,0%    20,0%   40,0%   60,0%   80,0%   100,0%  120,0%
ERR
II. Fiscal Impact and Project Sustainability
A. Introduction
The proposed project targets directly the first two objectives of ANEP's Education Reform Program,
outlined below.
*  improvement of social equity;
*  improvement of educational quality;
*  enhancement of the teaching function; and
*  strengthening of institutional management.
In order to evaluate the fiscal impact of the project, we have estimated: (a) the financial relevance of the
project relative to overall education expenditures and ANEP's budget; and (b) the financial impact of the
project (i.e., the difference in public expenditu;res with and without the project) and the present value of
the stream of project and project-induced expenditures net of taxes and financial savings generated by the
project.
B. Methodology
Macroeconomic Projections and Education Budget
The projections of the Gross National Product, Central Govt. expenses, and interest payments, until the
year 2003, were made on the basis of the information provided by the Division of Macroeconomic and



Page 56
Financial Programming of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. It was assumed that starting in the year
1999, real GDP and public expenditures would grow at 3.8% and 2.1% p.a., respectively.
Enrollment Projections
Estimates for primary and secondary education in the public sector were obtained by using a planning
model, which connects new entrants to the educational system, performance (i.e., repetition, promotion
and drop out) and population projections, by school level. Without the project, rates of repetition,
dropout and promotion were assumed to remain constant, with the annual change in enrollment
responding only to demographic change. The participation of the public sector in the total supply of
education is assumed to remain constant. With the project, the support to preschool education leads to a
substantial reduction in repetition in primary education, especially in the first grade. This decline is
substantiated by results from the 1996 household survey and is explained by the improved performance in
the National Learning of Mother Tongue and Mathematics Evaluation undertaken by the MECAEP
project in sixth grade students.
the support to single-shift education allows a gradual conversion of regular schools. No enrollment
changes are foreseen as a result of this component, other than those resulting from lower rates of
repetition and dropouts.
Indices of repetition and dropout are negatively correlated with household income. Since the project
focuses on low-income households, the impact on repetition is predictably high. The anticipated
reduction in repetition and dropout caused by the expansion of preschool education leads to a significant
decrease in enrollment The flow between grades becomes more accelerated and results in considerable
public savings. Similar assumptions regarding declines in dropout and repetition rates are made in
connection with the single-shift component.
Unit Costs
The average cost per student in each sub-system of ANEP was estimated for the base 1996 budget.
Project costs per student were estimated based on the information prepared by the MECAEP Project Unit.
The recurrent costs, derived from the implementation of the project for the initial education component,
are totally incremental for ANEP. However, only a portion of the recurrent costs related to the single-
shift coimponent are additional.
Recurrent costs with and without the project were obtained by combining the enrollment projections (with
and without the project) with unit costs. Project investment costs were estimated by MECAEP, based on
recent procurement processes.



Page 57
Table I
Macroeconomic and Project Variables
Variable/Year                                         1996      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002      2003
Millions of $1996 (constant)
GDP                                                  151,168   165,723   171,631   177,540   183,880   190,221   196,850
Central Government Expenditures                       32,162    34,636    35,356    35,330    37,144    37,283    37,205
Recurrent                                            28,681    30,887    31,529    31,506    33,124    33,248    33,178
Investment                                            3,481     3,749      3,827     3,824     4,020     4,035      4,027
Education Sector Expenditures                         4,391     4,596      4,759     4,788     4,841     4,828      4,794
ANEP Expenditures                                      3,380     3,569      3,630     3,660     3,655     3,638      3,606
Recurrent                                             3,143     3,319      3,376     3,404     3,399     3,383      3,354
Investment                                              237       250       254       256        256       255       252
University Expenditures                                1,011     1,027      1,129     1,128     1,186      1,190     1,188
Share of GDP (%)
Central Government Expenditures                      21.3%      20.9%     20.6%     19.9%     20.2%      19.6%     18.9%
Education Sector Expenditures                         2.9%       2.8%      2.8%      2.7%      2.6%       2.5%      2.4%
ANEP Expenditures                                    2.24%      2.15%     2.12%     2.06%      1.99%     1.91%     1.83%
Share of Central Government Expenditures (%)
Education Sector Expenditures                         13.7%     13.3%     13.5%     13.6%      13.0%     12.9%     12.9%
ANEP Expenditures                                     10.5%     10.3%     10.3%     10.4%      9.8%       9.8%      9.7%
Project Costs                                                                 82        6          77        83        38
Recurrent Project Costs                                                       5         14        22        28        28
Project Costs as share of Education Sector ExpendituTes                    1.7%      1.4%       1.6%      1.7%      0.8%
Project Costs as share of ANEP Expenditures                                2.2%      1.9%      2.1%       2.3%      1.0%
Recurrent Project Costs as share of ANEP Recurrent Exp.                    0.1%      0.4%      0.7%       0.8%      0.8%
Note: Project closes in April 2003. Recurrent project costs for that year shown in this table include implementation and operational periods.
Based on data from Ministry of Economy and Finance, ANEP (Control Presupuestal ), Contaduria General de la Naci6n , MECAEP e Instituto
Nacional de Estadistica.



Page 58
C. Conclusions
Education expenditures presently account for 13.3% of overall public expenditures and 2.8% of GDP.
About one-fifth of education resources are dedicated to higher education. Despite expenditures
significantly below the average for Latin America (4.2% of GDP and 16% of public expenditures), the
Uruguayan education system boasts impressive results in coverage and quality of education. Uruguay
also has one of the best records in income distribution and equitable access to education. Despite
laudable efforts to expand coverage to include students of low-income households, much remains to be
done if these students are to receive relevant quality education. The share of education in public spending
is expected to stay constant in the next five years. Since recurrent costs are expected to actually decline,
as a result of education reforms that promise substantial reductions in repetition rates and higher transition
rates between grades, there will be savings to be redirected to sustain the pace of reform and expand
targeted programs. As much as 0.5% of GDP will be available for reallocation by 2003.
The cost of the project amounts to slightly over 1.2% of the estimated education sector expenditures, and
1.6% of ANEP's budget for the period 1998-2003. The project's recurrent cost represent a relatively
minor burden as a share of ANEP's recurrent expenditures, peaking at 0.8% in 2002 and averaging 0.6%
over the project's life. Financial sustainability is ensured, in part, by savings in recurrent costs expected
to be generated by the project. Among the benefits of the project is a reduction in repetition rates in
primary education, resulting from greater student attendance of pre-school and from an expansion of time
spent in primary school by low-income students. These improvements in enrollment flows will result in
savings of about $1.5 million over the next decade. The present value of the fiscal impact of the project,
net of project-induced taxes and of project-generated savings is estimated at about $21 million. This is
relatively insignificant relative to the existing budget deficit and will be easily absorbed by the
Govermment. One indication of the smallness of the fiscal impact is that ANEP will be able to absorb the
entire recurrent expenditures induced by the project within the existing parameters of the negotiated
budget for the sector and, accordingly, has not requested financial support from the Bank for this purpose.



Page 59
Annex 5
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Finavncial Summary
(US$ million)
Implementatioini Period                       Operational Period
1999   2000   2001    2002   2003*  2003**   2004   2005   2006   2007    2008
Project Costs
Investment Costs              9.6    6.9      6.8     6.9     1.2     0     0       0       0       0       0
Recurrent Costs               0.6    1.7      2.8     3.5     0       3.5   3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5        3.5
Total                   10.2    8.6     9.6    10.3      1.3     3.5   3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5       3.5
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IBRD                       84%    71%    64%       59%     85%       0        0       0      0       0        0
Government                 16%    29%      36%     41%      15%     100%    100%   100%   100%   100%    100%
Total                        100%    100    100%    100%    100%    100%   100%   100%   100%    100%
*Since project ends in April 2003, prior to the beginning of classes, there are no recurrent costs in that
implementation year/period.
v * March through December, 2003.



Page 60
Annex 6
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD and IDA
Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997. Procurement
of consulting services will follow the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997. The procurement arrangements
under the Project are as follows:
Civil Works: The civil works under the Project include construction and rehabilitation of classrooms and
schools. These works costing less than US$100,000 will be procured through written quotations from at
least three qualified contractors, up to an aggregate amount of $0.7 million. Works for classroom
construction and rehabilitation costing $100,000 or more, but less than $3.0 million, will be procured
through NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of $20.2 million; and works for classroom
construction costing $3.0 million or more will be procured through ICB procedures.
Goods: School Equipment and Furniture and Teaching Aids (including didactic materials and classroom
libraries,) costing less than $50,000 will be procured through national or international shopping up to an
aggregate amount of $2.0 million. Packages costing $50,000 or more but less than $250,000 will be
procured through NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of $0.8 million. Packages costing $250,000
or more will be procured through ICB procedures.
Consultant Services with firms will be contracted through Quality-Cost Based Selection (QCBS) to
carry out studies of (i) Beneficiary Assessment to identify Demand Constraints; (ii) Continuation of
Impact Evaluation of Preschool Education; (iii) Survey of Community and Teachers Perceptions of Full-
time Schools; (iv) Evaluation of Full-time-School Impact on Students. The short-list of consultants for
these services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of
national consultants. Other consultant services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate
amount of 0.4 million may be selected based on Least-Cost Selection procedures to: (a) design and
implement an awareness campaign and (b) design training modules and materials for teaching training
activities. All other consulting services will be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997.
Prior Review: The following procedures will require prior review by the Bank: Civil works. All
documentation for all ICB procedures; all NCB contracts for works estimated to cost over US$1 million.
Goods: All documentation for all ICB procedures; the first NCB of each year. All other documentation
will be reviewed during supervision missions. Consultants: All documentation for consultants contracts
with firms costing $100,000 or more and with individuals costing $50,000 or more. All terms of reference
and shorl list for all other contracts. Contracts below these thresholds will be reviewed ex-post.



Page 61
Annex 6, Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other      N.B.F
1. Works
Classroom Construction       5.0       20.2         0.7\a                  25.9
and Rehabilitation           (4.5)     (18.2)      (0.6)                   (23.3)
2. Goods
School Equipment and         0.5         .8         2.0 \b                  3.3
Furniture and Teaching        (A4)       (.6)      (1.5)                    (2.5)
Aids
3. Services
Consultants, Studies,                               2.2                      2.2
Training & Study tours                             (2.2)                    (2.2)
4. Recurrent Costs                                                8.6          8.6
Total                        5.5       21.0         4.9        8.6          40.0
(4.9)    (18.6)       (4.3)                   (28.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a. Written quotations from at least three qualified contractors.
b. International ($0.5 million) and National Shopping ($1.5 million)
Annex 6, Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method           Total Cost
Consultant Services Expenditure Category                                  (including
contingencies)
SBQC    LCS    Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms                              1.0    0.5.                       1.5
(1.0)   (0.5)                    (1 5)
B. Individuals                                         0.6              0.6
(0.6)            (0.6)
C. Study tours                                         0.050            0.050
____________________ __ _(0.050)  (0.050)
Total                                 1.0    0.5       0.650            2.2
_(1.0)   (0.5)    (0.650)        (2.2)
Notes: SBQC= Selection Based on Quality and Cost
LCS= Least Cost Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Giuidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 62
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Works
School Construction         >3.000                 ICB                   All
and Rehabilitation
<3.000 >100              NCB          All over $1 million
<100                 3 Quotations          none
2. Goods
School Equipment,             >250                 ICB                     All
Teaching Aids,                <250 >50             NCB            First each year
Classroom Libraries
and Furniture
<50        Int'l & Natfl Shopping         none
3. Ser-vices
- Firms                       >100                 QCBS                    All
<100                 LCS          TOR and short list
- Individuals                  >50                 Individuals             All
L_______________     |<50                                         TOR and short list



Page 63
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of proceeds in the loan is shown in Table C. Disbursements would not be made
for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible sources or which have not been
procured according to the Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Works
(a) Under Parts A. l,          18.0                        90%
B.2 and B.3 of the
Project
4.2
(b) Under Part A.2 of
the Project
2. Goods
(a) Other than under            2.1                        80%
Part A.4 of the
Project
.5
(b) Under Part A.4 of
the Project
3. Consulting Services                 1.8                       100%
4. Training                            .2                        100%
5. Unallocated                         1.2
Total                                 28.0
Disbursement documentation: The Bank loan for this project is expected to be fully disbursed over a
five-year period. Disbursements will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Bank's disbursement
handbook: all applications to withdraw from the loan will be fully documented, except for contracts not
subject to prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs). ANEP will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and
SOEs to be submitted to the Bank. This documentation will be retained along with all other supporting
documentation for review by Bank supervision missions and independent accredited auditors.
Special account: A separate account will be opened by the Borrower for the project to ensure
administrative clarity and efficient processing of disbursements during the life of the project. This
account will be opened at the Central Bank uncler terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement and payments to suppliers will be processed by ANEP, independently of other internal
procedures in ANEP. The authorized initial allocation will be US$2,800,000; which corresponds to
expenditures estimated during the first quarter of the project implementation. The authorized allocation
shall be limited to an amount equal to US$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
loan account plus total amount of all outstanding special commitments should be equal to or exceed an
amount equal to US$4,500,000.



Page 64
Annex 7
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Implementation Summary of the Ongoing Project
The ongoing Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (MECAE P) has been implemented
satisfactorily, according to the original plan and targets. As of March 31, 1998 (three years and four
months since project effectiveness date,) a total of US$16.7 million (53.2% of the total loan amount) has
been disbursed. The expected closing date of the loan is June 31, 2001. Below, the implementation of
each component is summarized.
Classroom Construction
A total of 150 classrooms have been constructed for the benefit of about 9,000 children, mainly of the
preschool education. All new teacher positions necessary for these new classrooms have been created,
and staffed by the graduates from teacher education institutes.
Textbooks
Completed distribution of textbooks to all students of primary education, having procured textbooks for
two grade levels annually for three years. In 1998, a new cycle of textbook distribution will start. More
than 800,000 textbooks have been purchased. An extensive national and international competition among
authors of textbooks has contributed to a reduction in prices without resulting in a reduction in the quality
of the textbooks.
Preschool Education
The construction of classrooms financed under the MECAEP I project and by the regular ANEP budget,
as well as more efficient use of the existing classrooms have resulted in the expansion of the preschool
education coverage. This has been one of the priority of the Government's educational reform program,
and the original MECAEP I target has been surpassed. The MECAEP I project also has been financing a
series of sensitization campaign about the importance of preschool education. Coverage rates have
reached 82% for children of age 4 and 5.
This component also has provided didactic materials and books for preschool classrooms.
Another important activity financed under this component is the development of new curriculum for
preschool education, which would improve the articulation between preschool and primary education.
This new curriculum has been developed through a wide consultation with teachers and technical experts.
School-.Based Quality Improvement Projects (PMEs)
The project has been financing a program of competition for funding of school-based innovation projects.
These projects are developed by teachers, and given a small funding of about US$3,000 on average. As
of the end of 1997, more than 500 projects have been financed, out of the total of about 1,500 projects
submitted to the competition. Through this activity, teachers have been trained for identifying, preparing,
and adrninistering small educational projects. Teachers have very actively participated in this program.



Page 65
Didactic Materials
During 1997, a large package of didactic materials has been procured for all the primary schools in
Uruguay. This package of quality materials with the cost of about US$1.6 million has already been
distributed to classrooms with orientation guides for teachers.
In addition, MECAEP purchased books for school libraries with the total cost of about US$1.3 million.,
providing a package of about 140 books per schools.
Institutional Strengthening
Under this component, various activities have been implemented. Vehicles have been procured for all of
the departmental inspectors' offices.
A study on efficient use of human resources and improvement of teacher-student ratio has been
completed, and the ANEP has been implementing measures identified in the study to improve the
efficiency of the system.
At the beginning of 1998, a computerized system of information on schools in Montevideo has been
installed and in operation. The system is scheduled to be expanded to include all schools in urban areas
of the country. Teachers have been trained for the use of the system, and a software has been developed
to make the system work on a network. As a result, the ANEP has instantaneous information on the
students, teachers, school supplies and provision, conditions of infrastructure, etc.
Educational Assessment
A unit was created to carry out educational assessments. The first of which was held in October, 1996.
Language and Math examinations were applied to the entire 6th grade population. Results from these
tests were provided to each school (including private schools) and have been used to develop a training
program for 3,000 teachers working in the schools with worst results.



Page 66
Annex 8
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Letter of Sector Policy
NATIONAL PUBLIC EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION
Central Directive Council
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn                                             June 12, 1998
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
The purpose of this letter is to describe the overall policy for the education sector in Uruguay and
its links to the country's general development strategy.
Uruguay is a small country in terms of population (3.2 million inhabitants), but it boasts a century
of involvement in international markets and achieved sustained growth rates from 1875 until the 1950s,
when economic, social, and political crises affected the country. Once this stage was over, Uruguay
returned to its traditional democratic norms and, since 1985, it has resumed its pattern of growth,
recording -- up to 1997 -- average annual rates in excess of 3%.
Simultaneously, the per capita income level of US$5,200 shows that the nation has achieved an
appropriate standard of income distribution, with a clear reduction in the percentage of the population
living below the poverty line (12.8% as of 1994).
Hlistorically, these achievements have been associated with early-established and consistent
education policies. These have enabled Uruguay to compensate for its small size and its lack of natural
resources and capital by thoroughly developing its human resources (so that those members of the
population who are gainfully employed in economic and technical activities average nine years of
education). Currently, enrollment rates are as follows: 82% for Preschool Education, 98% for Primary
Education, 65% for Lower Secondary Education (Ciclo Basico), and 40% for Higher Secondary (Segundo
Ciclo).
Faced with the challenge of building a new economy and society for the twenty-first century,
Uruguay must provide its population with high educational standards, enabling its people to constantly
adapt to the scientific and technological changes they are bound to encounter in the future, judging by the
ongoing revolution currently affecting the state of our knowledge.
Combined with this challenge is a complex change in the population's reproductive behavior.
Although the crude birth rate is low and has not undergone any significant change over the last two
decades, a very substantial change has affected mothers and families.
]3irth rates have fallen among women who have completed Secondary and Higher Education, and
have increased among less educated women, and this development is associated with early pregnancies
and the number of consensual unions. This accounts for the sharp rise in illegitimate births. The



Page 67
consequence is that more than 40% of children aged 14 and younger belong to households in the poorest
quintile of the population.
For the above reasons, the Government of Uruguay has implemented substantial reforms, based
on the following four main objectives:
I .    Consolidating Social Equity and Developing the Capacity of the Entire Population
The above includes:
(a)    Providing preschool education for all children four and five years old;
(b)    providing six years of full-time education for socioculturally disadvantaged-
households with children whose school performance has been poor;
(c)   reducing failure rates and, therefore, the repetition rates of children from low-
income households;
(d)    achieving excellence in education by developing infrastructure and teaching
equipment, and providing free textbooks, books for school libraries, and -- above all --
ongoing training for primary-school teachers (all of whom will have received three years
of postsecondary training), in order to solve the problem of the socialization of students
from poor households;
(e)   improving school meals and developing a set of services for providing medical
care, clothing, footwear, etc., implementing such action with support from private-sector
institutions.
2.    Improving the Quality of Education
The following are the main activities to be undertaken, as part of a broad range of action:
(a)    Reforming the curriculum in preschool education, and improving its links with
elementary education;
(b)   totally reforming the compulsory secondary cycle (i.e. the seventh, eighth, and
ninth years) by creating comrnunity-based schools with a few full-time teachers and
offering a limited range of subjects, including compulsory computer studies and skills
focused on the world of work;
(c)   introducing technological baccalaureates (in addition to those awarded for
General Secondary Education), so as to produce intermediate-level specialists in
management, electronics, computer maintenance, chemistry, etc. (in the tenth through
twelfth years of study);
(d)    providing support for these changes through substantial investment in buildings,
equipment, textbooks, and -- above all -- the ongoing training of teachers.



Page 68
3.    Improving the Standing of the Teaching Profession
This includes:
(a)    Developing the professional training of secondary-school teachers in the
provinces by establishing four regional centers to provide training through courses
characterized by a high rate of class-contact (40 hours per week), grants for students, and
a carefully selected faculty;
(b)    increasing teachers' salaries, in accordance with their qualifications and daily
class hours, and establishing a graded salary structure for directors and supervisors;
(c)    providing annual training for between 15%  and 20%  of teachers through
programs requiring no less than 300 hours of attendance.
4.     Upgrading and Decentralizing Management
(a)    Although Uruguay is a small country, its capacity for educational innovation and
problem-solving must be developed at the level of individual schools. Consequently,
programs have been drawn up to allow for freely usable time in lower secondary
education, a system of educational development projects has been developed for the
primary and secondary levels, and the role of school directors has been strengthened.
(b)    Management in all urban schools (2,000 in all) is being computerized, together
with the records of students and the resumes of teachers. These are beginning to be
circulated by computer, by the same methods used to transmit via modem the various
distance-learning programs that can be offered over a high-quality telephone system.
(c)    A management system has been established in the Central Administration, and is
also being applied in the Decentralized Councils for Primary, Secondary, and Technical
Education.
Within the framework of these overall educational reforms, the project submitted to the World
Bank for its approval consists of two basic components.
The objective of the first is to provide universal preschool coverage for children of four and five
years of age. The target population is not large, but its sociocultural level is low, and it is the result of the
migration of poor families to new urban areas that lack the necessary educational infrastructure.
At the same time, informal measures will be adopted for taking action with respect to the
preschool population in rural areas. This is dispersed, and the total number concerned is small, so that it
is impossible to gather such children together in schools.
It is essential to provide early educational socialization for these children, because of the
instability of their family units, the young age and lack of formal education of their mothers, and the need
to change the outlook, norms, and values of such children; this is possible only if action can be taken on
their education, beginning at four years of age.
The second component consists of promoting a form of full-time primary education that will
occupy children for a full eight hours a day, so that their families' sociocultural shortcomings can be
overcome and intensive teaching can be provided throughout the school day.



Page 69
The Uruguayan education system had made a timid start on such programs in 58 schools that, in
theory, offered full-time education; however, this was done without any properly designed curricula, with
undertrained teachers, and in buildings that were frequently unsuitable.
The project submitted to the Bank will make it possible to construct 280 classrooms, rehabilitate a
further 120 that are already in existence, properly equip the full-time schools, design a new curriculum,
introduce experimental science, expand computerization, encourage the use of reasoning through
instructional games, and develop self-expression, while simultaneously training teaching staffs and
reorganizing the system of supervision.
The target group for the program consists of low-income, poorly educated households, and it is
intended -- by initially providing coverage for 7% of the school-age population -- to bring about social
integration, reduce the failure rate, develop students intellectually, and provide a basis for the expansion
of this educational model, which, within the next few years, should come to be applied to 20% of the
school-age population.
The National Public Education Administration (an autonomous agency with a Directive Council
appointed by Parliament for a period of five years) implemented the objectives and targets of the Bank-
financed "Primary Education Quality Enhancement Project" (MECAEP I) highly satisfactorily, as the
Bank's own reports indicate.
In light of the excellent performance of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in MECAEP I, it
will be given responsibility for the management of MECAEP II.
Finally, I wish to point out that this project is consistent with Uruguay's education policy and will
provide the essential underpinnings for the country's efforts to achieve equity and for the training of
excellent human resources for the nation's development in the twenty-first century.
Sincerely,
ls/    German W. Rama
Chairman of the National Directive Council,
National Public Education Administration,
Uruguay



Page 70
Annex 9
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Social Assessment Study Summary
Objectives and Methodology
The social assessment for the proposed project consists of two phases. The first phase has been
conducted during the project preparation and the second phase will be undertaken during project
implementation. This summary briefly presents the main findings of the first phase of the social
assessment study.
The main objectives of this first phase of the social assessment study were to review the extent of demand
for preschool education, possible impact of the expansion of preschool education in poor areas, and
possible obstacles to the implementation of the full time school model in terms of the stakeholders'
expectations. The study's secondary objectives also included reviewing the stakeholders' views and
possible social impact of the proposed expansion of preschool education and the expansion of full time
schools, developing strategies for targeted dissemination and sensitization campaigns, and identifying
better channels for discussion of the proposed education reform.
Activities undertaken included: (i) focus groups with primary stakeholders, including teachers, directors,
parents and NGO's, business community and community-based organizations; and (ii) consultation with
the authorities of the provincial education sector to present the main ideas of the project during the focus
groups, and to discuss the participation of civil society during its implementation.
Thirty one focus group meetings were held in poor neighborhoods of Montevideo and Greater
Montevideo (Casab6, Cerro Norte, Lavalleja, Casavalle, and las Piedras) as well as in the city of Salto.
The stucly was also complemented by interviews with community leaders.
Results
There is a general consensus among primary stakeholders about the necessity of the expansion of
preschool education.
To satisfy the demand for education and meet the needs of the poorest children, it is important to integrate
coverage actions with quality actions. The problem of access is not only an educational issue, since
socioeconomic barriers may interfere with the children's participation in preschool education. However,
the general opinion among the stakeholders is that the main problem is the lack of supply. In response to
this observation, one recommendation is to prepare an information dissemination campaign to convince
the parents that this situation (i.e. lack of supply) is changing.
For the full time school component, the social assessment detects more important problems.
- From the parents'point of view:
* The stigmatization of single shift schools as schools of the poor people.
* The fear of parents about the increase in the children's exposure to violence.



Page 71
*  Related to the selection of children for single shift schools, the parents asked for the freedom to decide
whether or not to enroll their children in full Ilime schools.
- From the teachers ' and directors 'point of view:
*  The necessity to discuss the reform, but the lack of information in the community results in a very weak
commitment among parents and students.
*  Problems in salary equity.
*  Directors say there could be a problem since a regulatory framework does not allow for the
implementation of extracurricular activities. There is not enough special teachers.
*  Teachers' lack of time availability does not facilitate a participatory approach, generation of innovative
projects, and opening of channels of communication and collaboration with the community.
*  Teacher salary issue and the need to maintain special incentives for quality indicators (like decrease of
repetition).
- For the stakeholders in general:
*  The school stakeholders want to be consulted on the reform process. The social assessment was regarded
as a positive development by most participants in the focus groups and they expect a similar treatment
from the authorities, without bureaucratic mediations.
* There is consensus about the need for gender equity.
* Need to improve the grants from the private sector.
Conclusion
The assessment concluded that the proposed project would adequately respond to the social issues raised
by the stakeholders. Some of the preliminary recommendations are listed below:
For single-shift, full time schools
*  A participatory approach, supported by institutional strengthening at the school level to ensure the
improved quality of education in these full tinne schools.
*  Specific administrative measures to increase the time teachers can dedicate to extracurricular program
and community participation.
*  The implementation of the new curriculum aimed at improving the relevance of education. This new
curriculum should be tailored to each community. Perhaps the solution is to have a general content for
the single shift schools, and specific activities, and workshops adapted to the existence of teachers in the
school and the needs presented by the parents.
For preschool education
*  Ensure that the size of groups is adequate to wvork properly with the children.
*  Improve the quality of supervision for preschools to equalize it to that for other grades.
*  Disseminate the importance of the preschool to the parents and to the teachers (especially to the teachers
of other school levels.)



Page 72
Annex 10
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
119
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6.                    8
First Bank mission (identification)             10/20/97             10/20/97
Appraisal mission departure                     03/08/98             05/18/98
Negotiations                                    06/01/98             06/15/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/18/98              12/18/98
Prepared by: National Public Education Administration
(Administraci6n Nacional de Educaci6n Puhlica, ANEP)
Preparation assistance: Strategic Compact funds for Social Assessment (US$20,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Ricardo Silveira                          Economist, Task Manager
Mari Minowa                               Economist, Task Manager
Antonio Pereira                           Education Specialist (consultant)
Blanca Hermosilla                         Education Specialist (consultant)
Armando Castelar                          Microeconomist (consultant)
Rafael Diez de Medina                     Education Economist (consultant)
Serrana Coelho                            Fiscal Economist (consultant)
Sandra Cesilini                           Social Assessment Specialist
Livio Pino                                Financial Management Specialist
Luis Secco                                Architect (consultant)
Marta Ospina                              Procurement Analyst
Aracelly Woodall                          Project Costing Specialist
Patricia Bernedo                          Task Assistant
Ruth Izquierdo                            Task Assistant
Reynaldo Pastor                           Counsel
William Experton                          Economist, Peer Reviewer
Juan Prawda                               Educator, Peer Reviewer
Eduardo Velez                             Educator, Peer Reviewer



Page 73
Annex 11
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Documents in Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* "MECAEP II: Plan de Implementaci6n"
B. Other
*  "Termninos de Referencia: Evaluaci6n Social MECAEP II"
*  "Evaluaci6n Social de MECAEP II" (Preliminary report by Equipos/MORI)
*  "Estudio de Evaluaci6n Social: Informe Final", Montevideo, mayo de 1998. (Final report.)
*  "Propuesta Pedag6gica para las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo (Versi6n Preliminar para la
Discusi6n)", octubre/noviembre 1997. (Principal document and "Anexo".)
*  "Lineamientos para la Implementaci6n de un Nuevo Modelo Pedag6gico e Institucional de
Escuela de Tiempo Completo" signed by Director Nacional de Educacion Piublica, 3 de abril
de 1998.
*Including electronic files.



Page 74
Generated: 06/24/98
Annex 12
Uruguay: Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit No.   Year           Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD      IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed    Orig Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 34
Active Loans
UY-PE-       IBRD42800   1998  GOVERNMENT                       CONTRACTUAL                 100.00       0.00          0.00       100.00      0.00      0.00
50717                                                           SAVINGS
UY-PE-       I IBRD42040   1997  GOVERNMENT OF                  FOREST PROD.TSP              76.00      0.00           0.00       74.00       8.90      0.00
39203                             URUGUAY
UY-PE-8177  IBRD39490   1996  GOVT OF URUGUAY                   POWER TRNMSN &              125.00      0.00           0.00      123.03      31.61      0.00
DISTR
UY-PE-8161  IBRD38550   1995   REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY              HLTH SCTR DEVT               15.60      0.00           0.00        13.09      6.79     -2.51
UY-PE-8171  IBRD37290   1994  REP OF URUGUAY                    BASIC ED QUAL IMPRV          31.50      0.00           0.00        15.45      5.78      0.00
UY-PE-8173  IBRD36970   1994  GOVT OF URUGUAY                   IRRG NAT RES MGMT            41.00      0.00           0.00       23.87      16.45      0.00
UY-PE-8146  IBRD32210   1990  ADMIN NACIONAL DE                 POWER                        62.50      0.00           0.00        4.26       4.28      0.00
USINAS                       MODERNIZATION
UY-PE-8138  IBRD29210   1988  GOVERNMENT OF                     WTR SUPPLY RHB               22.30      0.00           0.00         .89        .88      0.00
URUGUAY
Total                                                                                       473.90      0.00           0.00      354.59      74.69     -2.51
Active Loans      Closed Loans          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            119.32           955.57           1,074.89
of which has been repaid:               25.08            633.56            658.64
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:           448.82            325.27            774.09
Amount sold          :                      0.00              4.62              4.62
Of which repaid                            0.00              4.62              4.62
Total Undisbursed                         354.59              3.26            357.85
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based
system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance
Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:   Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Page 75
Uruguay at a glance                                                                 8/28/97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America  middle-   r-
Urugnay   & Carib.  income        Development diamond-
Population mid-1996 (millions)                           3.2       485      479    |
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              5I910     3,710    4,540                 Lifeexpectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 18.9      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           0.6        1.7      1.5      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                          1.0        2.3      1.8       P    i                         pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                               capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                 90         74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  18        37                        Acces to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                    83        80        86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                        3        13       13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    109       110       107                Uruguay
Male                                                  110                                     Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                109
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                              3.5      4.7       17.8     19.5
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                  18.9     11.4       11.7     13.1             Opennessofeconomy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              16.8     23.8       20.8     21.7               P
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     15.4     17.0       13.7     13.5
Gross national savingstGDP                     13.6      9.8       12.9     14.0
Currentaccount balance/GDP                     -5.4     -2.1       -1.2     -1.5
Interest payments/GDP                           1.5      6.2        2.3      2.0      Savings                      Investment
Total debtVGDP                                 25.7     8:3.1      29.7     30.8
Total debt servicelexports                     59.0     4:2.6      23.0     20.6
Present value of debtUGDP                        ..       ..       28.7
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..    138.7                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                   -     Uruguay
GDP                                   0.1      3.2      -:2.4       4.9      3.0 
GNP per capita                       -1.1       3.0     -:2.8       6.8      2.5                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         4.4      6.1      -4.7        7.8      4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
('A of GDP)
Agriculture                                    15.2     1:3.6       9.9     10.1      40
Industry                                       33.9     35.9       25.7     26.0      30
Manufacturing                                25.8     29.4       17.7     17.8      20.
Services                                       51.0     50.5       84.3     63.9      t0
Private consumption                            70.6     63.5       73.4     73.7    -10   19        92   93   94            94
General govemment consumption                  14.0     14.4       12.8     12.8                     GDI       e  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  20.3     21.1       18.8     21.3
1975-85  1986 96      1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                     1.0      3.         2.4      8.2      30
Industry                                       -0.6      0.6       -2.8      4.2
Manufacturing                                -1.1     -0.6       -2.8      4.5      20
Services                                        0.4      4.6       -1.7      3.8      10
Private consumption                            -1.0      4.9       -3.8      6.4       ol               _           _ 
General govemment consumption                   2.9      1.9        0.2      1.1             91   92   93   94              95
Gross domestic investment                      -3.7     :7.5        3.3     -0.6    -10
Imports of goods and services                  -0.5     11.2       -1.7     10.5                    Exports    *  imports
Gross national product                         -0.5      3.5       -2.2      7.4                      p
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 76
Uruguay
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domesti prices                                                                    Inflton (%)
(% change)                                                                        120
Consumer prices                              81.4     72.2      35.4     24.3    too
Implicit GDP deflator                        66.0     74.0      39.6     28.3      , -
Govemment finance                                                                 20
(% of GDP)                                                                       I o
Current revenue                                       16.0      36.2     36.6             91   92   93   94   95   86
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.4        3.2      3.8                 GDP dsf.  --CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                        ..    -3.1       -1.0     -0.3
TRADE
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                          384      854      2,106    2,397     4.0001
Wool                                        105      164       241      263
Meat                                         97      111       252      244    32000
Manufactures                                  ..    260        838   1033          1
Total imports (cif)                          556      708      2,802    3,301     2,000
Food                                         11       22       201      232
Fuel and energy                               1      224       272      341      1 f008
Capitalgoods                                  ..      65       394      502        0
Export price index (1987=t00)                  ..      78        131      139           90  S1  92  93  94  9f  9f
Import price index (1987--100)                 ..      61         91       97                  nExpos    almpors
Terms of tracle (1987=100)                     ..      127       144      142
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996     1996
(millions US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                551    1,257      3.504    3.729     4
Imports of goods and services                676    1.015      3,565    4,117       T
Resource balance                            -125      242        -61     -388   |
Net income                                    -71     -351      -227       18     2n
Net current transfers                          7       1 1       76        74     0 
Current account balance,                                                              90  91  92   9    94  80   0
before official capital transfers          -190      -98      -212     -296    -2.
Financing items (net)                        120      164          3      152
Changes in net reserves                       69       -66      209       144     4-
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mifl. US$)           555    1,031      2,161    2,305
Conversion rate (localWUS$)               2.3E-03      0.1       6.3      7.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1996     1996
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         904    3,919      5,307    5,994
IBRD                                        69      152       513      446                            A
IDA                                          0        0         0        0      Composl4on of total debte96lyll. US$)
Total debt service                           327      568        900      847
IBRD                                        11       30        117     103                :
IDA                                          0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              0        2        15        ..
Official creditors                          -8       10         9        ..
Private creditors                           44       17        88        ..
Foreign direct investment                    0        0       124
Portfolio equity                             0        0         4                              F
2353
World Bank program
Commitments                                 52        4        16        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilatera
Disbursernents                               5       23        32       39      B - IDA    D - Oter mullilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         6       19        78       70      C -IMF                      G- S1ormenn
Net fows                                    -1        4        -46      -31
Interest payments                            5       11        40       33
Net transfers                               -7       -7       -86       *64
Development Economics                                                                                              8128/97



