Page  1
October 16, 2000
Mr. Alberto Bension
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Colonia 1089
Montevideo, Uruguay
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Design of an Environmental and 
Health Education Subcomponent under the Basic Education
Quality Improvement Project - Grant TF026318
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant 
in an amount not exceeding two hundred seventy three thousand U.S. Dollars (US$273,000) (the 
Grant) to 
República Oriental del Uruguay
 (the Recipient).
By an agreement dated September 16, 1994 between the Bank and the Recipient (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank granted a loan to the Recipient in an aggregate value equivalent to the amount 
of thirty-one million five hundred thousand U.S. Dollars (US$31,500,000) (the Loan) to finance the 
Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (the Project).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance to design an 
environmental and health education subcomponent under the Project and on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  This Letter Agreement will become 
effective on the date the Bank receives: (a) a copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you; and 
(b) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank: (i) that the ANEP Agreement has been executed by the parties 
thereto; and (ii) that the auditors referred to in paragraph 5 (a) (i) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement have been appointed by ANEP.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Page  2
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By:
/s/ Alberto Bension
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 24, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant is to assist in the design of an environmental and health education 
subcomponent under the Project.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
carrying out of technical and feasibility studies with respect to the design of the 
environmental and health education subcomponent, said studies to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) a review of 
existing curricula for primary education; (ii) an assessment of environmental and health education 
initiatives abroad; and (iii) an economic assessment of said subcompoent’s viability, including its 
benefits (these activities are estimated to cost US$143,000 equivalent);
(b)
carrying out of: (i) consultations among stakeholders to identify the Project’s benefits for 
the selected communities; and (ii) an assessment of non governmental organizations with prior 
experience in environmental and health education projects (these activities are estimated to cost 
US$29,000 equivalent);
(c)
design of a training program and related materials for primary education teachers in the 
use of environmental and health education teaching instruments (these activities are estimated to cost 
US$29,000 equivalent);
(d)
design and implementation of a mechanism for the promotion, approval, delivery, 
monitoring and evaluation of small environmental and health education programs in selected schools 
(these activities are estimated to cost US$18,000 equivalent);
(e)
design and preparation of an operational manual for the implementation of the 
environmental and heath education subcomponent, which includes, 
inter alia
,
necessary institutional 
arrangements and operational procedures (these activities are estimated to cost US$22,000 
equivalent); and
(f)
design and preparation of a monitoring and evaluation system to measure the impact of 
environmental and health education programs on student behavior in selected schools (these activities 
are estimated to cost US$32,000 equivalent).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall cause the National Administration of Public Education (
Administración 
Nacional de Educación Pública
 – (ANEP)) to carry out and perform in accordance with the 
Page  3
provisions of the ANEP Agreement the Activities and all other obligations therein set forth, 
respectively, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, educational and environmental practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities and services and other resources or appropriate to enable ANEP to 
carry out the Activities and perform its obligations under the ANEP Agreement, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Activities 
and such performance. 
2.2. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall cause ANEP, if the Bank shall so 
request, to prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.3.
For purposes of carrying out the Activities, the Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant 
available to ANEP, under a subsidiary agreement (the ANEP Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Recipient and ANEP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.4.
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the ANEP Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purpose of the Grant, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the ANEP Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.
Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required 
for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of  
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
% of
Amount of the Grant
Expenditures to
Item
Allocated (in U.S. Dollars)
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ Services
273,000
100%
TOTAL
273,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
Page  4
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after October 15, 2001 or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if 
the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and
(c)
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed by the President of ANEP on behalf of the 
Recipient or such other person as said President shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request. Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of ANEP.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing 
less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient shall open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
Page  5
5.1
(a)
The Recipient shall cause ANEP to maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause ANEP to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, accounts and 
financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c)(i) of this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
 
months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
Page  6
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; (b) 
ANEP shall have failed to comply with any or its obligations under the ANEP Agreement; or (c) the 
right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
6.2. The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants 
for services for the Activities of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  7
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 (a), (b), (c), 
(d), (e) and (f) of the Annex shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for the Activities of 
the Annex estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for the Activities of 
the Annex estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants for the 
Activities of the Annex estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
Page  8
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Grant Account under the eligible item, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  9
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
