                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29878

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-43810 TF-26318)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 28.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC ORIENTAL URUGUAY

                                                 FOR A

                SECOND BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                              July 30, 2004




Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
 Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective July 30, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Peso Uruguayo (UYU)
                                          UYU 1 = US$ 0.0340
                                           US$ 1 = UYU 29.38

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1      December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANEP:          National Public Education Administration (Administración Nacional de
               Educación Pública)
ATD:           Teacher's Technical Committee (Asamblea Técnico Docente)
CAS:           Country Assistance Strategy
CEP:           Primary Education Council (Consejo de Educación Primaria)
CERPs:         Teacher Training Centers (Centros Regionales de Profesores)
CETP:          Technical Professional Education Council (Consejo de Educación Técnica
Profesional)
CODICEN:       Central Directive Council of Education (Consejo Directivo Central de
               Educación)
EA:            Environmental Assessment
ECH:           Continuous Household Survey (Encuesta Continua de Hogares)
ESA            Health and Environmental Education (Educación de Salud y Ambiente)
ETC:           Full-time school (Escuela de Tiempo Completo)
FMR:           Financial Management Report
FTS            Full Time School
IADB:          Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD:          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB:           International Competitive Bidding
ICR:           Implementation Completion Report
IFDs:          Teacher Training Institutes (Institutos de Formación Docentes)
INE:           National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadística)
JICI:          Single Cycle Kindergarden (Jardín de Infantes de Ciclo Inicial)
LAC:           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCR:           Learning Resource Center (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizaje)
MEC:           Ministry of Education and Culture (Ministerio de Educaci6n y Cultura)
MECAEP:        Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la
               Calidad de la Educación Primaria)
MEF:           Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MIS:           Management Information System (Sistema de Secretarias Escolares)
MTR:           Mid Term Review
NBF:           Non Bank Financing
NCB:           National Competitive Bidding
OECD:          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OM:            Operational Manual
OPP:           Office of Planning and Budgeting (Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto)
PAD:           Project Appraisal Document

PCU:       Project Coordination Unit
PDE:       School Development Program (Programa de Desarrollo Escolar)
PIP:       Project Implementation Plan
PISA:      Program for International Student Assessment
PME:       School-based Quality Improvement Projects (Proyecto de Mejoramiento Educativo)
QCBS:      Quality-Cost Based Selection
SOE:       Statement of Expenses
TCR:       Court of Accounts of the Republic (Tribunal de Cuentas de la República)
TIMSS:     Third International Math and Science Study
TOR:       Terms of Reference
UCUDAL:    Catholic University of Uruguay (Universidad Católica de Uruguay)
UMRE:      Achievement Evaluation Unit (Unidad de Medición de Resultados
           Educativos)
UNESCO:    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization



                           Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                          Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                           Sector Director     Ana-Maria Arriagada
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Ricardo Silveira

                                          URUGUAY
        SECOND BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower's Contributions                                                38
Annex 9. Activities under MECAEP Projects                                        48

Project ID: P041994                                                  Project Name: UY-Basic Ed 2
Team Leader: Ricardo Rocha Silveira                                  TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: UY-Basic Ed 2                                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-43810; TF-26318
   Country/Department: URUGUAY                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (56%); Pre-primary education (35%); Central
                            government administration (7%); Tertiary education (2%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/29/1998                                     Effective: 01/29/1999                01/29/1999
     Appraisal: 05/13/1998                                         MTR: 12/12/2000                  12/12/2000
      Approval: 07/30/1998                                      Closing: 08/31/2003                 02/29/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/A.N.E.P.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Donald R. Winkler
Team Leader at ICR:             Ricardo Silveira                               Ricardo Silveira
ICR Primary Author:             M. Rosa Puech

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The general objectives of the project were to: (a) expand coverage and improve quality of preschool and
elementary education; and (b) achieve greater social equity by targeting the expansion of the new
(preschool and elementary) full-time school model to socio-economically disadvantaged children.


Context

This project was the second in a series of three projects in education spanning over a decade of cooperation
between Uruguay and the World Bank. The First Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (Proyecto
de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación Primaria, MECAEP I, Loan # 4381 focused on
preschool education and institution building.      This Second Education Quality Improvement Project
(MECAEP II) introduced a full-time school model (FTS) in addition to continuing to finance preschool
education. The Third Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (MECAEP III) focuses on institution
building, particularly teacher training reform, and expands the FTS model to 20 percent of the primary
school population (see Annex 9 for a description of activities under the three MECAEP Projects).

During the implementation of MECAEP II, the economic situation of Uruguay deteriorated. In 2002, the
country suffered from the effects of the economic crisis affecting its neighbors, Argentina and Brazil.
Despite the preventive economic measures adopted by the Government, the national economy was strangled
in 2002. Since the project was approved, the poverty situation in Uruguay has deteriorated as shown by
the last Continuous Household Survey (2003). The number of people living under the poverty line has
reached one-third of the population. Thus, the project was implemented in an economic context that had
dramatically worsened since the project was first designed. More children from disadvantaged contexts
have been enrolling in the public school system. The 2002 Height Census Data show that the situation of
Uruguayan children, measured by the census, is worse compared to those fixed by the international
standard. The results from the Height Census Data also show that children attending full time schools are
shorter than those in regular schools. In this context of deteriorating economic conditions and increasing
poverty, the project objectives and focus of MECAEP II became even more relevant.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision to the project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following components:

Component 1 - Universalization of Preschool Education. US$ 15.4 million (38.3 percent of the total
project cost).

The objectives of this component were to: (a) expand the coverage of preschool education to nearly all
children aged 4 and 5 by enrolling the remaining 10,700 and 1,600 out-of-school urban and rural children
of these ages, respectively; and (b) improve the quality of public preschool education. Specifically, the
component was to finance: (i) classroom construction; (ii) classroom equipment and learning materials; (iii)
teacher training; (iv) studies; and (v) promotional campaigns for parents and families. ANEP's regular
budget would finance the salaries of the teachers hired to staff the newly-created classrooms.

Component 2 ­ Expanding Access to Full Time Schools. US$ 23.2 million (58.1 percent of the total



                                                     - 2 -

project cost).

The objective of this component was to expand a new pedagogical model of full-time schools targeted to
those children from socio-economically disadvantaged families, thus improving the quality of primary
education (preschool and elementary school) and expanding their access to better learning opportunities.
Ultimately, the goal was to have 33,500 children between the ages 4 and 11 enrolled in FTS by project-end.
Specifically, the component was to finance: (a) classroom construction and rehabilitation; (b) classroom
equipment and learning materials; (c) teacher training and technical assistance to schools; (d) studies; and
(e) promotional campaigns. ANEP's regular budget would finance the salaries of the teachers hired for the
FTS created under the project.

Component 3 - Project Administration and Monitoring. US$1.4 million (3.5 percent of the total
project cost).

This component aimed to support ANEP's efforts to strengthen the administration and monitoring of its
programs. Specifically, the component was to finance:          (a) the operation of the MECAEP Project
Coordination Unit (PCU); (b) technical assistance to the PCU; and (c) technical assistance to strengthen
ANEP's capacity for monitoring and evaluating the achievements of the reform programs both qualitatively
and quantitatively as they were being implemented.
3.4 Revised Components:
Parallel to MECAEP II, but after its approval, Uruguay received a PHRD grant in 2001 (TF26318)
approved by Central Directive Council of Education (CODICEN) to work on a set of activities regarding
environmental and health/life skills education. Its design and implementation took longer than anticipated
and actually overlapped with the Third Basic Education Project (MECAEP III), approved in July 2002.
The main products were: (i) the creation of School-based Quality Improvement Projects (PME), a model
developed under MECAEP I, but now focused on health and environmental education and now financed by
MECAEP III; and (ii) modules for teacher training in health and environmental education.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as discussed by the
Executive Directors on June 5, 1997. Project design was based on sector work produced by the Bank,
including a PER of the education sector, and diagnostic studies generated by the country. The project
followed the framework of the Education Reform Program launched by ANEP, the institution responsible
for defining the country's basic education policy. The project supported the main objectives of the reform,
which were: (a) improving the quality of education; (b) achieving social equity; (c) improving teacher
training and the service conditions of teachers; (d) enhancing the relevance of education to labor market
requirements; and (e) strengthening sector management capacity. The project was designed to support two
key initiatives in primary education: the expansion of preschool education, and targeting the poor with
quality basic education strategies, by adopting a full-time school model (FTS) focused on the lower quintile
of the social-economic context.

Project design took into account the lessons learned from the preparation and implementation of MECAEP
I and adopted a more participatory approach by better involving teachers and trying to minimize the risks
identified at the preparation stage. Key stakeholders (teachers and principals), through a special task force,
actively participated in the development of the new FTS pedagogical model and the new curriculum for
preschool education. The Bank team interviewed teachers and principals in existing FTS and members of
the teachers' union, noting that the FTS model was generally supported by the teachers' community.
Project design was kept simple and the objectives were realistic. Its implementation was designed to be
based on local institutional and technical capacity, which was key to project success and to its



                                                     - 3 -

sustainability possibilities.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
 The project's outcome is rated satisfactory. The project achieved its development objectives of providing
 greater access to and higher quality of preschool and elementary education for children ages 4 to 11 and
 greater social equity by targeting and reaching the socio-economically disadvantaged segments of
 children's population. Uruguay has an education system that has outperformed its neighbors and its
 education indicators are well above the region's average. Thus, 95 percent of children are enrolled in
 elementary education and in the appropriate age group and 50 percent and 70 percent are enrolled in
 lower and higher secondary education respectively.                The target indicators reflect the focus of the
 government on improving the quality of education, which had been declining in the years prior to the
 project and reducing gaps in education services delivery and in outcomes between the highest and lowest
 income groups in the country.



 Access to preschool education. The project set as a target the expansion of access and coverage of
 preschool education for approximately 10,700 children of ages 4 and 5 in urban areas and 1,600 children
 in rural areas, which were the last remaining children out of school. With the data available and used at
 the time of appraisal, this target would mean achieving near universal coverage for this age group [1].
 MECAEP II project activities built on MECAEP I efforts, which intended to expand the preschool
 coverage in areas with unsatisfied basic needs and enhance the quality of preschool education to increase
 school readiness and reduce repetition in the first two grades.

 In absolute numbers, the project reached 13,318 children ages 4 and 5 (December 2002), surpassing the
 target in the PAD [2]. The expansion in net overall enrollment was lower than 13,318 since a significant
 number of the new spaces made available in the public system were taken up by children already enrolled
 in private preschools and who were now migrating to the public schools. Moreover, revised demographic
 data show that the number of 4 and 5 year olds was underestimated in the 1996 Census and that an
 additional effort beyond the project would have been necessary in order to achieve universal coverage.

 Based on the 2002 Household Survey data from the Encuesta Continua de Hogares (ECH), coverage for
 the 5 year old group reached 90 percent, while for the 4 year olds it reached 73 percent. One of the main
 achievements under the project was the improvement in equity, reflecting an adequate targeting of project
 activities. Between 1996 and 2002, greater improvements in enrollment took place in the lowest quintiles
 of the 4 and 5 year old population, reducing the enrollment gap between income groups. Total coverage
 for children ages 4 and 5 increased significantly for the lowest quintiles: for the quintiles 1 and 2, from 64
 percent to 71 percent and from 76 percent to 86 percent, respectively. These achievements are among the
 best in the region (see Tables I and II).
                       Table I Percentage of 5 year olds attending preschool by income quintiles
                                       Q1            Q2            Q3           Q4         Q5             Total
               1996                     71           81            89           89         98              82
               2001                     88           92            94           94         100             92
               2002                     84           93            92           98         98              90



 Source: ECH, representative sample of urban population (5,000 and more inhabitants)



                      Table II - Percentage of 4 year olds attending preschool by income quintiles
                                         Q1           Q2             Q3           Q4       Q5             Total



                                                           - 4 -

               1996                      36          62             72           87       92         56
               2001                      58          71             86           83       94         72
               2002                      59          80             82           81       98         73

Source: ECH, representative sample of urban population (5,000 and more inhabitants)

Studies, undertaken under the project (see Annex 7), on preschool enrollment indicate that efforts need to
concentrate on the 4 year old segment. There has been a reduction in enrollment rates for 4 year olds
during the last two years. The population growth trends for 4 years old are partly responsible for this
reduction, but the studies also showed that many 4 year old children who were enrolled at the beginning of
the school year drop out of school before the end of the year. ANEP has identified the profile of the group
of 4 year olds still out of school. The share of non-enrolled children (around 30 percent) is similar in
Montevideo as in the urban interior of the country. Around 43 percent of the children not attending
preschool, live in Montevideo and are located in the poorest neighborhoods.

Access to full-time schools (FTS), targeting school-aged children in socio-economically
disadvantaged areas. Before the project started, there were 58 FTS, which traditionally had enrolled
students with chronic health problems. The project was successful in: (a) redefining the role of the
traditional full-time schools; and (b) expanding access to full-time schools. The project supported the
government efforts to recreate the pedagogical and institutional role of the FTS, as defined in the 1998
Consejo Directivo Central (CODICEN) and the Consejo de Educación Primaria (CEP) Resolution (
Acta 90, Resolución del 21 al 29 de diciembre de 1998).

By project closing, 98 FTS were functioning with a physical capacity of 30,000 students and enrollment
of 26,900 students. The project succeeded in ensuring the availability of capacity for 90 percent of the
PAD target. The shortfall in capacity creation and enrollment was due to a conscious policy decision by
the government to allocate more resources to the rehabilitation of existing FTS schools than to new
construction.
The project succeeded in focusing on students coming from socioeconomic disadvantaged and very
disadvantaged areas, following the targeting criteria defined in the PAD. The 2002 Height Census (Censo
de Talla 2002) measured the height of the children attending full-time schools, showing that these children
were the shortest among their age group; another indication that they were the poorest children. A recent
assessment of the targeting efficacy shows that less than 20 percent of the FTS students are not mapped to
the disadvantaged and very disadvantaged groups.

The project achieved its objective of operationalizing the full-time school model, improving the quality of
primary education through the adoption of pedagogical and institutional innovations. Through training
activities, the project was successful in introducing curricular changes and updating subject contents. It
succeeded in bringing new teaching and learning methodologies to the school. Though these innovations
are still incipient, results are tangible as shown below. Teachers are slowly but steadily accepting these
changes and spreading them through out the system.

Reduction in repetition rates for public elementary education. Overall repetition rates improved, but
fell short of what was expected in the PAD [3]. Results for the six grades of primary education in full
time schools were substantially better than those of regular primary schools (see Table III).

                                        Table III ­ Evolution of Repetition Rates
                                                                                  1996      2002   2003     PAD
                                                                                                           targets
National average rate for all six grades                                           10.8     10.3    9.1      5.0
National average for 1st grade                                                     21.0     19.9   17.8     10.0



                                                          - 5 -

National average for 1st grade in schools of very disadvantaged contexts                   26.4 [3]           24.4      21.5   12.0
Average rate for all six grades in FTS                                                       14.5              7.3      6.3    n.a
Average rate for all six grades in FTS of disadvantaged and very                             15.0                       5.9    n.a.
disadvantaged contexts



Available studies (see Annex 7) indicate that repetition rates are substantially higher in students that come
from disadvantaged and very disadvantaged socio-economic contexts (who have a larger quantitative
presence in the primary education system). The studies point out that in the Uruguayan education system,
repetition is concentrated in the early years of primary, acting as a filter applied by teachers, who use
repetition as a pedagogical tool to compensate for the deficiencies that these children from lower income
groups present when first entering the school system. The studies also observed the paradoxical nature of
the resistance to reduction of repetition rates in light of the improvements in the education system, namely
the increase in coverage of preschool and the improvements in student learning achievements as shown by
the Unidad de Medición de Resultados Educativos (UMRE) evaluations (1996, 1999 and 2000).
Repetition at the national level did not meaningfully improve primarily due to two factors: (a) the increase
in enrollment at preschool level was dramatic between 1995 and 2000, as mentioned above, and it was
difficult for the education system to absorb the consequences of higher enrollment and maintain quality;
for instance, though teacher training was key in maintaining and improving quality, it would take some
time before all teachers could go through adequate training; and (b) resistance from primary education
teachers to reductions in repetition, independent of improvements in overall quality; an insistence on
traditional grading coupled with an increase in teachers' expectations. In addition to these factors, the
PAD targets for repetition were probably too optimistic as they were linearly estimated based on
circumstantial repetition achievements at the time of project design.

Improvement in the achievement of learning results. The project was highly successful in improving
the quality of education services. The National Student Learning Assessments (1996, 1999 and 2002)
show that there has been substantial progress in terms of quality and equity at the primary education level.
Student learning achievements in Language and Mathematics have consistently improved, between
1996-2002 (see Table IV).


   Table IV - Evolution of Results of Student Achievement in Language and Mathematics for 6th grade of Primary
                                                             Education
         National sample ­1996, 1999, 2002- Percentage of students reaching a satisfactory level of proficiency

                                                     Language                                     Mathematics
Percentage of students              1996             1999             2002            1996             1999         2002
reaching sufficiency level          57.1             61.3             66.3            34.6             40.8         48.3

            Source: Evaluación Nacional de Aprendizajes en Lenguaje y Matemática de 6to año de primaria 2002­ UMRE/ANEP



The number of students reaching the satisfactory achievement level has increased in all socio-economic
contexts. Moreover, consistent with project development objectives, improvements have been even more
remarkable for students in disadvantaged and very disadvantaged contexts (see Table V).


                                           Table V ­ Student Achievement Results
                                                        School Socio-economic Classification
                                    Very FavorableFavorableAverageDisadvantagedVery Disadvantaged



                                                               - 6 -

                                             199619992002199619992002199619992002199619992002199619992002
Language
percent of                                      85.488.087.770.273.975.558.461.566.448.551.46137.146.754.8
students
achieving
satisfactory level
Difference in
results                                                                        +2.3
1996-2002                                                                      +5.3
                                                                                +8
                                                                               +12.5
                                                                               +17.7
Mathematics
percent of                                      66.471.272.346.251.556.434.039.452.524.127.939.116.727.935.7
students
achieving
satisfactory level
Difference in
results                                                                        +5.9
1996-2002)                                                                     +10.2

                                                                               +18.5
                                                                               +15
                                                                               +19
                 Source: Evaluación Nacional de Aprendizajes en Lenguaje y Matemática de 6to año de primaria 2002­ UMRE/ANEP

  In 1996, the gap in sufficiency levels in Language and Mathematics between the schools in the two
  extreme socio-economic classifications was significantly wider (almost 50 percentage points) than in 2002
  when the gap was narrowed to around 35 percentage points. The National Student Learning Assessment
  also shows impressive results for FTS. These schools achieved better results than those expected based
  on the socio-economic background of their students. In fact, improvement of FTS students was better
  among those FTS from lower socio-economic contexts, and FTS performed better than regular schools in
  the same socio-economic contexts. The FTS that have been working for a longer time under this model
  performed better than those which joined the FTS model at a later stage. This was in part because
  teachers in these schools had already participated in in-service training.

4.2 Outputs by components:
  The project consisted of three main components with the following objectives: (a) expansion of access to
  schools; (b) qualitative improvement of basic education; and (c) strengthening management and planning

  Component 1. Universalization of Preschool Education
  ICR Rating: Satisfactory

  This component was successful in increasing access to preschool education for children aged 4 and 5,
  increasing equity in access to preschool education, and improving the quality of teaching and learning [4].

  Analysis by sub-component:

  1.1 Classroom construction. Under this sub-component, a total of 109 preschool classrooms were built
  (105 built by MECAEP and 4 by ANEP): 34 in new full time schools, and 75 in regular schools
  transformed into full time schools, pre-existing full time schools, and kindergartens [5]. This result is
  lower than the 200 classrooms target in the PAD. It reflects the government's decision: (a) not to build
  separate preschool classrooms under the project, but to include them in the construction of FTS (when
  new construction of FTS was curtailed, the expansion of preschool classrooms was also impacted), and
  (b) to expand the preschool system outside of the project. By project-end, 13,318 new preschool places
  were created by the project and by the government (outside of the project). This is significantly above the



                                                                    - 7 -

PAD target of 12,300 new student places[6]. The majority of classrooms built were located in urban and
peri-urban areas and mainly in disadvantaged and very disadvantaged socio-economic contexts.

This sub-component was also successful in improving classroom design. The team of architects opted to
design systematic prototypes, which were adaptable to different physical realities. A system with
prototype elements was created, which could be combined and adapted to the different realities, to produce
different buildings. Classroom design also considered that these were preschool classrooms: classrooms
are more spacious, and special attention was paid to aspects of hygiene, motion (motricidad) and feeding.
Special attention was paid to finishing details and the materials used in construction, seeking easier and
affordable maintenance.

The project carried out two studies to provide support to ANEP in locating the non-enrolled children and
understanding the causes of this phenomenon. These studies: (a) identified those children who were not
attending preschool, based on the Height Census Data 2002; and (b) analyzed the factors influencing
attendance and drop out in early education. The main findings revealed that the problem with attendance
was concentrated in 4 year-olds. The studies provided information on the geographical location of these
children and on the socio-cultural and economic characteristics of their families. Most attendance
problems were in the poorest segments of society. Terms of Reference (TORs) for an information
campaign to reach out to these children has been prepared for financing under MECAEP III.

1.2 Classroom equipment and teaching materials. This sub-component met its goal of providing school
furniture (tables, chairs, curtains, carpets, mattresses, and music boxes) for classrooms and multipurpose
rooms, principal's offices and kitchen equipment for all the 109 classrooms built or rehabilitated (109).
Additionally, the project provided equipment for 53% of the government's built classrooms. The project
technical team designed the furniture to be built, based on a study of the anthropometrical characteristics
of small children. This was a very innovative step that improved the quality of the school furniture, raising
it above the standards of what is available in most Latin American countries. The designs used multiple
colors in the furniture, transforming the classroom environment.

This sub-component also financed the provision and distribution of 75 sets of teaching materials to equip
150 classrooms (the PAD estimated 100 sets, one for every two classrooms). The teaching/learning
materials included games, science sets, etc. (see Annex 8 for a list of learning materials provided). These
items reflect acquisitions to replace lost or damaged learning materials and to equip new classrooms. The
set of learning materials was defined by a committee composed by three early education supervisors, a
pre-service teacher trainer and a preschool teacher representing the Asamblea Técnico Docente (ATD) ­ a
consultative teacher's body.

A key element of success was the integration of a teaching guide (created and financed under MECAEP I)
on the use of the learning materials ("Propuestas para el Uso del Material Didáctico") that was
distributed to all preschool teachers in the country. A total of 3,500 copies were printed and distributed.
The objective of the guide was to support teachers in achieving a better use of the learning materials.

1.3 Provision of books.        MECAEP II complemented the efforts undertaken during 1995-2000 by
MECAEP I. Under MECAEP I, books for classroom libraries were provided for all the preschool
classrooms in the education system. At the time, the selection of books was made by a committee
consisting of supervisors, principals and teachers. In 2001 during MECAEP II, a total of 29,000 story
books (libros de cuentos - 19 titles) were purchased for those schools with preschool classrooms: they
were distributed to kindergartens, public schools with preschool groups, and rural schools with more than
six children in the preschool classroom. The books were distributed by the Department of Books,


                                                     - 8 -

 Textbooks and Learning Consejo de Educación Primaria (CEP) ­ Primary Education Council.

 In 2003, educational books (a set of 18 titles) were distributed to equip the teachers' libraries in each
 kindergarten in the country, including rural schools with preschool classrooms.            To maximize the
 successful use of the books and materials, teachers and principals were trained before materials or books
 were distributed and support materials, teaching aides and consultations were provided to the teachers.

 1.4 Teacher training. [7. This sub-component built on MECAEP I in the area of training and was
 successful in providing quality training to preschool teachers to improve their knowledge of the preschool
 curriculum and pedagogical skills.

 The project aimed to train all new preschool teachers. During MECAEP II, training was provided to over
 1,900 preschool teachers in urban and rural schools, teachers in kindergartens, preschool supervisors and
 principals in regular schools with preschool classrooms.        The number of trained teachers        (1,900)
 exceeded the number of new teachers required to staff project-built classrooms since the project also
 trained teachers in government-built facilities. The content of the training was centered on:

a.      Improvement Program for teachers and principals of the initial cycle experience [8]. Training was
provided to update teachers on subject content and to provide a forum for technical discussion for teachers
and directors participating in this innovative experience. The training also served as an opportunity to
assess and monitor the implementation of the Jardín de Infantes de Ciclo Inicial (JICI) experience.
Participants were divided into two groups and training took place in five meetings during weekends, over a
five-month period.

b.      Improvement Program for preschool teachers in rural schools. This training was provided to
teachers with groups/classrooms of children ages 4 and 5 in a rural school reclassified as urban. Training
took place in five meetings during weekends, over a five-month period. The training was offered two
consecutive years to reach those teachers who had not participated the first year. The content of the training
covered: pedagogical planning and strategies, oral and written language stimulation, sciences, play and
expression, among other subjects.

c.      Content Update Training for supervisors in preschool, regular schools, practices and full-time
schools. This training aimed to: update the knowledge of subject matter for preschool teachers and other
participants and to launch a proposal to coordinate the regular schools with preschool classrooms and
develop a "First Cycle Project" for schools of practice (escuelas de práctica), full-time schools and JICI,
to cover ages 4 to 7. A total of 77 supervisors were trained and they, in turn, trained teachers and
principals.

d.      Knowledge Update Training for kindergarten principals. This training program upgraded the
knowledge of curricular content and generated proposals for institutional development projects in the
different modalities of kindergartens. It also improved management skills and fostered team work. The
training took 108 hours and 204 principals participated.

  This training was an effective vehicle to foster dialogue and team work among education professionals.
  It has not yet been evaluated, although the feedback received from the beneficiaries was extremely
  positive, and teachers, principals and inspectors have requested its continuation. An external evaluation
  of the teacher training is scheduled to take place by the end of 2004, financed under MECAEP III.




                                                     - 9 -

  1.5 Studies. The project financed a large number of research activities in preschool education, which
  were not originally defined in the PAD. Some of the more important studies are mentioned below.

a.       "Determinantes de la Regularidad de la Asistencia y de la Deserción en la Educación Inicial
Uruguaya." (Montevideo: Universidad Católica, 2003). This study focused on external and internal
variables affecting preschool attendance by children ages 4-5. The key conclusions were that absenteeism
or dropout is mainly associated with: (i) e non-mandatory status of early education; (ii) weather- or
health-associated domestic factors; and (iii) the occupation of the adults in the family and a less informed
image of children's early development. These and other conclusions were used as feedback for teacher,
principal and supervisor training as well as background for policies linked to provision, expansion, quality
and targeting of early education strategies.

b.       "Síntesis de los Principales Resultados del Estudio de Evaluación de Impacto de la Educación
Inicial en el Uruguay. Estrategias de Trabajo con Niños y con Familias." (Montevideo: ANEP-MECAEP,
2003). The purpose of this study was to identify pedagogical and institutional strategies and mechanisms to
work with children at risk vis-à-vis school learning. The study provides valuable and practical orientation
on early education processes, making it accessible to parents, teachers and managers at a macro- or
micro-level of the administration.

c.       "Los Niveles de Desempeño al Inicio de la Educación Primaria." (Montevideo: ANEP-MECAEP,
2002). This was a national assessment covering preschool, first and second grades to: (i) obtain empirical
data about the students' performance in Language and Mathematics during the first half of primary school;
and (ii) identify possible differences among students' performances in different kinds of schools. The main
findings were: (1) the differences in performance between first grade students in the national sample and in
the FTS sample are not statistically different; (2) within FTS, there is only one significant variable (reading
out aloud); no statistically significant differences exist between the 2nd grade national sample and the 2nd
grade sample of the Jardines Infantiles con Ciclo Inicial (JICI); and (3) there is statistical association
between social risk and "learning potential," a psychological control variable. These conclusions provide
valuable inputs for educators and policy makers seeking adequacy and relevance in curricular and
institutional variables.

d.       "Ahora me Toca a Mí. (Montevideo; ANEP-MECAEP, 2003). The study is a comprehensive
summary of all the major actions and achievements of the early education program in Uruguay from a
historical, conceptual and practical point of view. It highlights: (i) how a relative delay in opening the
access to this public service had severely hit the most underprivileged segments of the population; (ii) the
risk of transforming this inequity into a serious social discrimination problem; (iii) the national commitment
toward universalization of preschool education and development during the 1990's; and (iv) how the
number of early education teachers increased 100 percent in ten years (1993-2003). The study has been
used to spread the basic elements of the Uruguayan strategy in early education and to foster motivation
toward deeper and more participative support for early education initiatives.

e.       "Primer Ciclo en Educación Primaria. Una Experiencia Curricular." (Montevideo:
ANEP-MECAEP, 2003). The National Initial Education Inspectorate (under CEP leadership) and
MECAEP have identified the best practices in the new curricular experience developed in Uruguay and
labeled First Cycle (Primer Ciclo). This groundbreaking model seeks to maximize the crucial schooling
years by putting 4 and 5 year old children and 1st and 2nd grade children together, making a four-year
nearly homogeneous group. The study: (i) stresses the unification of a much needed theoretical
background; (ii) indicates how a common physical ground was found for the two diverse levels; and (iii)
highlights the interaction of teachers and managers to meet the unique needs of the newly-established school


                                                      - 10 -

category. This Uruguayan initiative has stirred interest in national academic quarters, among educational
practitioners, and other Latin American systems in search of more efficient and psychologically updated
early school strategies.

  1.6 Promotional Campaigns. Promotional activities were carried out and posters were produced to
  disseminate the mandatory enrollment of 5 year olds for the 2003 school year.

  The project has given support to improving the frequency and quality of the communication between
  parents and teachers and developing outside promotional campaigns. The study mentioned above, "
  Síntesis de los Principales Resultados del Estudio de Evaluación de Impacto de la Educación Inicial en
  el Uruguay," dedicates a chapter to the strategies available to teachers to work closely with the families
  to foster children's development.

  1.7 Hiring of teachers. All classrooms created under the preschool component were staffed with certified
  teachers (approximately 200, achieving the PAD target) who had access to the training provided under
  the project. These teachers are paid by ANEP as part of the regular education budget.



 Component 2. Expanding Access to Full Time Schools
 ICR Rating: Satisfactory

 This component sought to expand a new pedagogical model of full-time schools (FTS), targeted to
 children from socio-economically disadvantaged families. It aimed to improve the quality of primary
 education (i.e. preschool and elementary school) these children were receiving and to expand their learning
 opportunities. This component achieved its objective of expanding access to high quality full-time schools,
 although it did not fully achieve the expected enrollment rate estimated in the PAD. The project activities
 were well targeted and the majority of the children enrolled in FTS are from socio-economically
 disadvantaged families. The pedagogical full time school model is being implemented in nearly all the
 FTS schools. The National Learning Assessment in 1999 and 2002 showed that the quality of what these
 children are learning has improved significantly.

 2.1 Classroom construction.        The PAD estimated the construction of          280 new classrooms and
 rehabilitation of 120 existing classrooms. During project implementation, construction costs became
 higher than PAD estimates and the government requested that a greater emphasis be placed on
 rehabilitation and conversion of existing double shift schools (into single shift) than on new construction.
 The government also requested that project funds be used in the rehabilitation of existing FTS where the
 infrastructure was deteriorating and in danger of being closed. Under the project, a total of 136 new
 classrooms were built (including 16 classrooms in two new schools built under government-financing
 only) and 194 double shift classrooms (in 30 schools) were rehabilitated and converted to single shift.
 Additionally, 55 pre-existing FTS were rehabilitated.

 The project proposed a combination of criteria to be met by schools in order to be selected under the
 project. These criteria focused on the socio-cultural context (i.e., it should be classified as disadvantaged
 or very disadvantaged under UMRE's socio-economic context index) and it should be in an area of fast
 population growth. The project succeeded in adequately targeting the most disadvantaged groups, even
 though children from non-disadvantaged contexts were also enrolled in FTS (less than 20 percent of total
 FTS enrollment). This was in line with the government's desire to avoid stigmatization of the FTS as
 schools for the poor.



                                                   - 11 -

 The budget for maintenance was negatively affected by the economic crisis and the Borrower sought the
 involvement of the "Comisiones de Fomento Escolares" to complement central government efforts to
 support these efforts. Unfortunately, the economic crisis undermined these efforts and the MECAEP team
 adjusted the design of school buildings and the use of materials (such as bricks for the inside and outside)
 to help ease maintenance requirements. Aware of the importance of this matter, the government created a
 special fund in WHEN ("Fondo de la Playa de Contenedores") to finance the maintenance of schools
 built by MECAEP. This measure will help sustain project achievements.

 2.2 Classroom equipment and learning materials. The project provided furniture, kitchen appliances
 and learning materials to all schools financed under the project. It provided books for a school library in
 each FTS school; school guides for teachers; scientific kits, games, icons, atlas, etc. The book provision
 and distribution strategy provided a total of 100 books per school with 12 groups (classrooms), 80 books
 for schools with 9 to 12 groups and 55 books for schools with 8 or less groups. Book selection and
 distribution was handled by the Department of Books, Textbooks and Learning Materials in the Primary
 Education Council (CEP), created and institutionalized under the previous project MECAEP I. Reading
 corners have been created in all FTS schools. Books (16 titles) were provided for teachers' libraries in all
 FTS schools as well as for the 23 departmental inspections (inspecciones departamentales) and the
 National FTS Inspections (Inspección Nacional de ETC).

 2.3 Training and technical assistance to schools. The project aimed to train a total of 1,200 teachers
 (including principals, and teachers in complementary and/or administrative positions) in the pedagogical
 and institutional full time school model. Achievements under this sub-component were remarkable and
 project activities surpassed the targets in the PAD. During the project life, the training program covered
 nearly all teachers working in full-time schools, reaching a total of 2,993 (the actual number of teachers
 was smaller as some teachers have taken more than one training module). A total of 1,026 teachers were
 trained in Course I; 1,290 teachers received Course II; 390 teachers were trained through tutorials and
 287 teachers were trained in Course III.

 The teachers who attended the courses received monetary compensation, because the training was either
 during the weekend or after regular working hours. Training modalities consisted of a two-phase process:
a.       Course I: a 150-hour (15-day) internship for detailed study and discussion of the FTS pedagogical
proposal and conditions for efficiency and success;
b.       Course II: This course was given in two different modalities. The first modality required
attendance to a 76-hour series (four weekend training meetings) on the implementation of learning
workshops, where teachers were required to develop projects in the areas of Language, Social Sciences,
and Natural Sciences. While the projects were in process, the teachers were visited by the core group of
trainers (one by area) two times a year to meet with the teacher and work with the pupils. The Zone
Inspector and, sometimes, the Departmental Inspector took part in these visits. Tutorial, the second
modality of Course II was added in 2002 and is an extension of the first modality of Course II for the
teachers who have already taken the previous courses to strengthen content and pedagogy; and finally
c.       Course III: designed to strengthen the teaching and learning of Mathematics in the FTS model.
This course (70 hours) was voluntary and a total of 287 teachers and principals took it. Next year, a
second training module of the Mathematics course will be given for those teachers who will have already
taken Course III, financed by MECAEP III. All FTS teachers were selected in a nationwide open
competition process and then trained along with their principals and inspectors.

 The training team was strengthened during the life of the project, going from a core group of four trainers
 to 12, who are providing training in the areas of Language, Social and Natural Sciences and recently,
 Mathematics. During implementation, the training modalities went beyond what was expected in the


                                                    - 12 -

 PAD, introducing a tutorial modality and a diversified selection of courses to satisfy participants' demands
 and the development of the FTS model.

 One of the main strengths of the full time schools pedagogical proposal is the modality of work in
 workshops (Talleres). In May 2001, three manuals were published ("Proyectos de Lenguaje en ETC";
 "Proyectos de Ciencias en ETC" and "Proyectos de Ciencias Naturales en ETC") including all the
 work achieved by FTS teachers to design and implement new teaching and learning methodologies. These
 manuals were very innovative and high quality materials, which have been disseminated within the region
 as a working tool and used in a UNESCO international seminar. The workshops were evaluated under
 four criteria: planning, registry of activities and implementation and learning. The methodology of
 working in workshops was highly valued by teachers. New manuals for each area, which will compile the
 theoretical framework for the FTS model, classroom practices and the experiences of the last years will be
 produced next year, under MECAEP III.

 An assessment of in-service teacher training for FTS (Evaluación de Programas de Capacitación para
 Maestros y Directores de ETC - September 2002) and independent classroom observations concluded that
 teachers were pleased with the class methodology for FTS in-service training, with more involvement of
 the student-teachers in the learning process. Teachers valued the courses and wanted more. There was
 near unanimity that these high quality courses had been very important not only in changing teachers'
 classroom behavior, evaluation practices, education planning and relationships with students outside the
 classroom, but also in updating teachers' knowledge of the subjects they teach. However, random
 classroom observations showed that teaching methodologies were often still traditional and teachers were
 deficient in some of the required contents. The core teacher training team has been working to improve
 these aspects.

 As a way to reinforce the pedagogical proposal training in Course I, in 2003, the FTS team began to visit
 schools joining the FTS model and carried out an assessment of the impact of Course I. Three aspects
 were assessed: (a) how the school organizes and uses the weekly teachers meeting (colectivo docente); (b)
 the school learning environment; and (c) organization of playtime at school. As expected, the main results
 indicated that qualitative changes, even though incipient, could be noticed in the schools visited, which had
 recently adopted the FTS pedagogical model, such as the discussion on the teaching practice in the
 classroom, the teachers' perceptions of the possibilities of the students and the school and the creation of
 educational spaces, such as the play time in school and the evaluation of the school's co-existence as well
 as their involvement in the social environment.

 2.4 Studies. The PAD planned two studies to be carried out: (a) a Qualitative Assessment of the full time
 school model implementation and (b) an Impact Evaluation of the Full Time School on Learning
 Outcomes, including a sub-study comparing successful and unsuccessful FTS.

 The first study ­ "Estudio de la Evaluación Social de las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo"- was
 completed in November 2001. The main findings of this study served as background information to
 prepare the project proposal for MECAEP III, which dedicates the bulk of its resources to the
 construction and transformation of full time schools. The main findings are the following:

a.       The student-teacher relationship had been positively affected by FTS, since the model allows
teachers to do more one-on-one work with students; thus, giving them attention and educational support
that is generally not available in the households of students in disadvantaged contexts as well as developing
stronger personal ties between teachers and students with a significant socializing impact. However, some
teachers feel overwhelmed by the demands placed on them to be both teachers and surrogate parents to


                                                     - 13 -

these disadvantaged students.

b.       Parents of children who attend FTS recognize that their children learn more and better in FTS.
However, despite the fact that a survey showed that over 80 percent of the general public has heard about
FTS, only 50 percent know about the full time school model and only 4 percent identify the model as an
important improvement in education policy. This showed that further efforts are needed under MECAEP
III, to disseminate the FTS best practices more broadly, to promote the model and to help introduce some
of its lessons into regular schools.

c.       The main features of the FTS model were not fully operational in some schools: special workshops
were still not instituted in many schools and in "transformed schools" (i.e., those converted from a double
to a single shift), school materials were less available than in newly-built schools. For a number of FTS,
"more time schools" rather than "full time schools" is still the rule. This was directly linked to the training
of teachers and making the same amount and quality of learning materials available to all the schools.

d.       Historically, full time schools were associated with special needs (e.g., children with health
problems). The fact that FTS target disadvantaged areas has reinforced this perception. Thus FTS are
often viewed with suspicion when they first open, but they rapidly gain acceptance in the community. It is
important to allow a diversity of socioeconomic backgrounds in FTS in order to limit the extent to which
they are "branded" as special needs schools. MECAEP III aims to cover 80 percent of students from
disadvantaged and very disadvantaged socioeconomic contexts and 20 percent from medium ones.

The second study ­ an Impact Evaluation of the Full-Time School on Learning Outcomes ­ was conducted
by ANEP's Research and Evaluation Directorate and titled as Evaluación Nacional de Aprendizajes en
Lenguaje y Matemática - 2002. Segundo Informe: Resultados en Escuelas de Tiempo Completo y
Escuelas de Áreas Integradas. Montevideo: ANEP-Proyecto MECAEP, 2003. The main findings are:

In the area of Language, gradual and moderate increments were observed for students living in the lower
contexts over the six-year assessment period carried out by MECAEP and ANEP.                   The 1996-2002
difference amounts to 16 percentage points (1996 = 55.7 percent versus 2002 = 71.6 percent) for the
unfavorable contexts, and near 18 percentage points (1996 = 45.1 percent versus 2002 = 62.9 percent) for
the very disadvantaged contexts. In Mathematics the largest increments over the same period correspond to
the very disadvantaged sectors namely: 26.4 percentage points (1996 = 27.5 percent versus 2002 = 53.9
percent) for the disadvantaged contexts, and 29.9 percentage points (1996 = 19.2 percent versus 2002 =
49.1 percent) for the very disadvantaged contexts.

Again in longitudinal terms for the 1996-2002 period, the Language performance results obtained by the
FTS located in both the very disadvantaged contexts are systematically higher than the results expected of
them on the basis of their respective socio-educational ratings. Moreover, for the Very disadvantaged
contexts, a tendency is plotted indicating an increase in the distance between obtained and expected results
throughout the period. A comparable performance structure has been found in Mathematics for the two
groups over the same six-year period.

The Language and Mathematics performance results consistently show that students in the very
disadvantaged settings benefit most from the FTS model. These results have confirmed the very positive
preliminary assessments of the FTS in Uruguay.

 2.5 Promotional Campaigns. Historically, since FTS were associated with children with special needs, it
 was anticipated that a promotional campaign would be needed to encourage parents to enroll their


                                                     - 14 -

 children. A special program information dissemination was to be undertaken in those communities
 selected for the establishment of a FTS. However, the FTS model became so rapidly known by word of
 mouth, through the experience of teachers and parents and from the results of the training and extra
 activities taking place, that the demand to enroll in the FTS exceeded the government's capacity. A small
 promotional campaign, through TV advertisements, was undertaken during the first year of the project
 only.

 2.6 Hiring of teachers. All schools created under the project were staffed with teachers and their salaries
 were financed from ANEP's annual budget. The CEP is setting up a competitive placing system for
 permanent positions for the remaining teachers who are working in FTS, but have not yet been offered a
 career position.

 During the implementation of the FTS component, two innovative programs were added to strengthen the
 FTS model: (a) the Program to Strengthen the Relationship among the School, Families, and the
 Community; and (b) the Bilingual Education Program.

a.       Program to Strengthen the Relationship among the School, Families and the Community. This
program was instrumental in achieving success in the implementation of the FTS model. It started as a
pilot in October 1999 in 12 FTS. The program aimed to design, explore and assess the viability of a model
to strengthen the relationship among the schools, the families and the communities to improve the students'
performance. A multidisciplinary team was formed of social workers, intern social workers and
psychologists. A rapid evaluation was carried out at the beginning of the first year to decide whether to
extend the pilot experience. The results were positive and the program continued as originally conceived for
two more years. During 2002-2003, the program started to work under a new modality with those 12
schools that had been in the program for three years. Under this new modality, the team and the school
gave priority to specific projects, which would help sustain the achievements reached during the first phase
of work with the multidisciplinary team. In addition, 24 new schools were incorporated into the program,
resulting in 36 schools that benefited from the program services. To meet this level of work, the
multidisciplinary team was increased in 2002 and again in 2003.

 Research and activities reported under this subcomponent have noted that:(i) there was an improvement in
 the school environment in schools participating in the program; and (ii) there were signs of improvement
 in the relationship between the schools and the families, mainly related to the teachers' commitment and
 the inclusion of the program's activities in the institutional program of the school. During the last year,
 the team worked with the new 12 schools to reach agreements with each of them in the main areas of
 interest for the community, school and families. This program is continuing under MECAEP III.

b.       Bilingual Education Program. This program, initiated in 2001 as a pilot experience to introduce
bilingual education in five FTS, reached 28 FTS (26 in English and 2 in Portuguese) under MECAEP II, in
11 Departments of the country, covering 1,777 students. During 2003, two schools close to the border
with Brazil were incorporated into the program, under the modality of dual immersion. Between the period
2001-2003, the program trained a total of 196 teachers in English and 9 in Portuguese. Whereas the initial
five schools were selected, during the implementation of this program, each school requested its
participation, increasing the sense of ownership. During 2004, there will be an evaluation of the program,
financed by MECAEP III. The Bank team recommended that, in this evaluation, the bilingual program be
examined: (i) for its comparative advantage vis-à-vis other modalities of learning and teaching a foreign
language; and (ii) in absolute terms, on students' achievements in Language and Mathematics. Activities
under this program are continuing under MECAEP III.




                                                     - 15 -

 Component 3 ­ Project Administration and Monitoring.
 ICR Rating: Satisfactory.

 This component succeeded in strengthening the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), enabling a successful
 execution of the project. MECAEP II shared the same PCU with MECAEP I, in close association with
 the ANEP. The permanence of the same group of professionals and the experience gained with MECAEP
 I were major factors in the successful project implementation. This PCU managed the implementation of
 MECAEP II in an exemplary manner and took leadership in the design of MECAEP III, which became
 effective in September 2002.

 The PCU also successfully managed a PHRD grant (TF026318) to prepare activities in Health and
 Environmental Education. The PHRD financed consultants' work on: (a) a curriculum review to include
 this theme across subjects; (b) teacher training; and (c) the development of an operational manual for
 School Development Projects (PMEs) specific for health and environment education.            Most of the
 products of the grant are being included in MECAEP III.

 The PCU technical team created a geo-referenced tool ­Sistema Georeferenciado ­ that is being used
 under MECAEP III to identify, together with the input for the full-time school inspection, the schools to
 be financed under the project.

 The project successfully provided technical assistance to strengthen ANEPs' capacity for monitoring and
 evaluating the implementation of the reform programs. UMRE has successfully continued to manage the
 implementation of the Standardized Student Cognitive Assessment System and the production and
 dissemination of high quality evaluations and studies, which have been key inputs for policy making.

 The PCU achieved improvements in the financial management system, introducing two modules to allow
 better monitoring of the status of execution of project acquisitions. Improvements were also achieved in
 the information system regarding the procurement process, by including the results of each procurement
 operation and feeding it into the financial information system for the project, before proceeding to pay
 providers. Finally, the filing system was upgraded by creating individual files for each acquisition of
 goods and civil works, which permits easy following of each procedure.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
 ICR Rating: Substantial.

 The institutional development impact of the project is considered substantial, because the activities
 financed by the project had a strong influence on education policy development and in the strengthening of
 institutions at CEP and CODICEN. It is clear that project activities were gradually absorbed by the
 regular education institutions and then spread beyond the confines of the project (e.g., PMEs absorbed by
 CEP and UMRE incorporated into CODICEN/ANEP).



                                                   - 16 -

 The project supported the renewal of the curriculum at preschool and primary levels. For preschool, the
 project financed the development and publishing of teachers guides, and the training in curriculum
 content. For full time schools, the project financed the training provided to the full time teachers and
 departmental inspectors. All of this training helped bring changes to the school level, changing learning
 and teaching methodologies in the classroom.

 Regarding the FTS model, the success of this project was the main impulse to consolidate the FTS model
 in the CEP, through its reformulation that began formally with the approval of norms (Acta Nº 90) in
 1998 and, afterwards, with the creation of the National Inspection of FTS. The FTS model has become
 the schooling paradigm of the Uruguayan education system.

The project, through the financing provided to the PCU component and the studies carried out,
continued to provide support for the UMRE. This unit, created under MECAEP I, was
institutionalized and mainstreamed into ANEP regular operations. In February 2002, ANEP
underwent a reorganization that established UMRE as the Program for the Assessments of
Educational Achievements under the Education Planning and Management General Department.
UMRE has also emerged as a powerful engine behind educational research and dissemination of
studies as well as a key player in policy development.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic Crisis in MERCOSUR. During the last few years, Uruguay has suffered the effects of the
economic crisis affecting its neighbors, Argentina and Brazil. The economic crisis translated into less
resources available in the economy and delays in project implementation. The economic context has
affected the maintenance of schools, by temporarily draining all resources allocated to this activity. It
impacted construction activities by worsening the already precarious financial situation of some of the
construction companies. The crisis also impacted on the overall expansion of preschool enrollment by
leading to a migration of students out of private schools and into the public sector. Thus, public preschool
expansion did not add as much to overall enrollment as it had been expected.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Continuity of Government policies. Even though there were changes in Government during the life of the
project (in 2000), the main objectives and lines of the national education policy remained unchanged. The
project objectives were respected and key project activities remained intact, through changes in the
Administration. In addition, some innovations were piloted, such as the bilingual program in FTS.

Collaborative work between the PCU and ANEP. The PCU was created under MECAEP I and, during
the implementation of that project, it initially functioned quite autonomously from CODICEN or CEP.
Yet, during the implementation of MECAEP II, the PCU collaborated and worked closely with ANEP.
This has gradually contributed to streamlining project activities into the education system and the project
benefited from the professional involvement of ANEP's personnel. One remarkable example was the
involvement of inspectors in all the training levels and the conviction of the positive effects the project
actions were bringing.

Delays in Government decision making. Despite the substantial benefits derived from greater
collaboration between the PCU and CODICEN, there were time costs generated from a less independent
PCU. CODICEN's attempts to reach a consensus on virtually all policy decisions, occasionally impeded



                                                     - 17 -

the timely execution of project activities. The good coordination between ANEP and the PCU enabled the
resolution of these impasses, but there were still noticeable reaction lags.

Greater consultation with potential beneficiaries of the project.           MECAEP II benefited from the
consultations and participation of teachers, principals and inspectors during project preparation. These
stakeholders were also consulted and participated in evaluations as project activities were being
implemented.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Continuity of the technical teams. The project benefited from the continuity of many professionals who
launched project implementation and in some cases, they were members of the MECAEP I team. The
project did experience a number of changes in key project positions; there werefour project coordinators
and three finance managers. Despite the high caliber of these professionals, there were periods of
adjustment.

Commitment to monitoring and evaluating project activities. Following its working practices under
MECAEP I, the PCU continued to monitor and evaluate the progress and impact of activities carried out
under the project. The results of those evaluations have supported the technical teams to adjust project
actions and activities, disseminate results to stakeholders, increase transparency in objectives and policies
and expand the culture of evaluation, created under MECAEP I.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At project closing, the total project cost was US$40.73 million. About US$27.75 million of the IBRD loan
was disbursed (from a US$28.0 million loan approved). The Government's counterpart funds reached
US$12.54 million (up from the US$12.0 million estimated at appraisal). During the life of the project,
several reallocations of loan resources took place. The most significant one was the reduction of resources
for the construction of preschool classrooms (from US$9.6 million to US$0.67 million), reflecting a change
in the Government's policy to include the construction of classrooms within FTS (as well as government's
construction of preschools outside the project). Meanwhile, loan resources allocated to the construction of
FTS were increased from US$15.4 million to US$20.17 million. The expansion of the FTS component
allowed for more resources for teacher training activities, studies, etc.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR rating: Likely

The most reliable assurance of the sustainability of MECAEP II outcomes is derived from the widespread
mainstreaming of its activities (see section 4.5 Institutional development impact). Additionally, it is likely
that the achievements reached during project implementation will be maintained for the following reasons:

a.       The actions financed by the project have supported the implementation of the country's education
policy of expanding access to preschool for all children 4 and 5 years of age, with emphasis on the poorest
children. This policy has been in place for more than a decade and achievements under this project are
remarkable. Infrastructure was built to accommodate increasing preschool enrollment and the teaching
force was adequately trained in ECD.

b.       The training activities for preschool have benefited not only teachers, but also principals and
inspectors. The training was highly valued by all participants and it is having a demonstration effect among



                                                     - 18 -

other teachers.

c.       The full-time school model has been accepted by teachers, principals, inspectors, and society in
general MECAEP II was unable to meet the increasing demand for FTS throughout the country. Teachers
attended the mandatory training and the voluntary courses. Teachers appreciate the changes that the full
time school model are bringing to the classroom and the positive results in terms of learning achievements
and the school environment.

d.       The government is aware that it needs to pay attention to the following:

(i)      Maintenance for school buildings. The government has been very proactive in dealing with the
issue of school infrastructure. As demostration of the high priority assigned to this issue, in the middle of a
severe fiscal crisis, the government has created a special fund ("Fondo de la Playa de Contenedores") to
finance the maintenance of schools built by MECAEP. This measure provides comfort to the Bank that
infrastrucutre-related project achievements will be sustained.

(ii)     Adequate budget to ensure continuation of key activities that have become institutionalized. This
includes learning materials and teacher training, the financing of UMRE activities in student evaluation
research, and school development projects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
a.       The project financed training for a large group of teachers at the preschool and primary levels, in
regular and full time schools, who are working in the school system. It is expected that the skills acquired
through training will continue to bring changes to the classrooms and the learning and teaching
methodologies will improve. The preschool classrooms within full time schools will continue to receive
training and learning materials under MECAEP III. Others will be assisted by CEP with its regular
resources, which has been object of planning.

b.       The third phase of the Basic Education Project (MECAEP III, Loan #7113), financed by the Bank
, continues to support the expansion of the FTS model to cover an additional number of low income
children. Project activities are better focused, learning from the lessons of MECAEP II, with support from
the FTS inspection and the sistema geo-referenciado to locate the most populated areas in disadvantaged
contexts.

c.       To improve teachers' skills acquired through training under MECAEP II, MECAEP III is
supporting the reform of the pre-service and in-service teacher training. The successful completion of this
reform will build on the skills acquired though training under MECAEP II.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank engaged in a fruitful
dialogue with the Borrower to define the project objectives and main actions to achieve them jointly . The
project design was in accordance with the country's education policies and it incorporated regional and
international experience. The main reason for not giving a highly satisfactory rating is that the
Bank-Borrower preparation team did not adequately assess the status of the infrastructure of the
pre-existing full time schools and more repairs than estimated were needed.




                                                     - 19 -

The teachers' unions and the consultative teachers' body - Asociación Técnico Docente (ATD) were in
agreement with the need to repair pre-existing buildings, when the decision had to be made during
implementation. In addition, the unit costs of schools was higher than it had been foreseen.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank carried out a minimum of two full
supervision missions per year and provided additional technical assistance in the areas of procurement and
financial management when the key personnel in the PCU were replaced during the last years of the project.
The Bank actively worked with the Borrower to achieve a successful implementation of project activities.
The Bank sought to adapt the project activities to support changes in the policy and fiscal reality in the
country in a timely way, such as the case with the construction of preschool facilities where the Bank
helped tofind complementarity among the actions of the two ongoing projects, MECAEP I and II. The
project had the same task manager throughout implementation, favoring management supporting dialogue
and understanding of the country's context. In addition to regular supervision missions, the Bank ensured
that Uruguay participated in a series of continuous technical assistance/knowledge sharing seminars and
workshops in specific areas of the project such as school infrastructure, teacher training, Management
Information System (MIS), student assessment, school development projects, etc. These events had the
participation of staff and task managers from numerous education projects in the Latin America and
Caribbean Region and involved site visits by PCU staff and policy makers to other projects.            This
innovative form of knowledge sharing known as Continuous Learning Framework (Marco de Aprendisaje
Continuo ­MAC) aimed to introduce project personnel to their peers in other countries where they were
addressing nearly identical issues. This initiative received enthusiastic reviews by participants and is
credited with resolving a number of specific technical project problems and in influencing policy change in
the participating countries.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory due to: (a) an adequate preparation process
and timing; (b) good team work and fluid communications with the Government; (c) suitable response to
the country's need; (d) innovative supervision and continuity; (e) close and flexible support on Bank
policies; and (f) field visits and productive meetings with stakeholders and beneficiaries.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. This was truly a Borrower-prepared project. MECAEP II was prepared by the technical
team that had been working on the implementation of MECAEP I and this was a key factor in focusing the
project objectives and actions on the issues relevant for the country. During preparation, a conscious effort
was made to involve stakeholders and beneficiaries and to learn from the written and unwritten lessons of
MECAEP I. Every component introduced in the project was the result of a battery of independent studies
and evaluations as well as consultations with stakeholders. The Bank-Borrower team should have paid
more attention to the status of the infrastructure of the pre-existing full time schools where more repairs
than estimated became necessary . In addition, the unit costs of schools were higher than had been
foreseen.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Throughout the life of the project, the Government was consistent with the education policies
that had served as background for the project preparation. Government continuously supported the project
objectives and actions and it worked with the Bank to adapt these to the changing environment, such as the
preschool component. The Government fulfilled its obligation of providing counterpart funds, even in the
last year of project implementation, during the economic crisis.



                                                     - 20 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. ANEP, the implementing agency, demonstrated a remarkable leadership role during project
implementation. Two competent coordinators were responsible for project implementation.                A well
qualified team of professionals supported the coordination and the coordinators provided smooth continuity
to the technical team. This was a source of strength, commitment and professionalism, very characteristic
of Uruguay. The PCU succeeded in closely coordinating project actions with CODICEN and CEP,
ensuring consistency in education policy.         The PCU technical team has participated in study tours to
receive assistance, and in turn has provided technical advice to other countries in the region, showing the
high quality of their work and experience. On one occasion, there were delays in project implementation
originating in CODICEN, but these can be explained by the consensus-seeking nature of this
decision-making body.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance is rated as satisfactory due to the overall Government commitment
to the project as an instrument to support the country's education policies; the quality of inputs provided
during project preparation; the competency and professionalism of implementation; and the continuous
efforts to improve the quality of education and improve student achievements.

8. Lessons Learned

Involvement of stakeholders and beneficiaries in early stages of project design promotes ownership
and sustainability. Consultations with teachers and education stakeholders took place to design the FTS
model.     Although there was always a potential adverse reaction to the changes brought by the
implementation of the new model, the involvement of teachers during the preparation of the proposal
mitigated this risk. In addition, the involvement of inspectors in the changes the educational authorities
wanted to bring to the system was key to the successful introduction and mainstreaming of these
transformations of the education system.

A functioning and up-and-running monitoring and evaluation system from the beginning of
implementation is important in guiding project implementation. A strong M&E system can help
re-direct project actions, based on accurate information. This was pointed out by the closing of MECAEP
I. The role and activities carried out by UMRE were of crucial importance to guide the evolution of the
project activities. The quality of the process to select the researchers to carry out independent evaluations
and the quality of the studies and products generated by this unit are relevant as well.

A training module in preschool education is necessary to prepare teachers for the characteristics of
the students entering school. During project implementation, in-service teacher training was key in
providing the teachers with skills they had not acquired during their pre-service training. In-service training
of teachers is important to help them handle new challenges they have to face at the schools. It also
important to carry out an evaluation of the training provided to teachers, thus understanding the need to
upgrade/reform the pre-service training and the creation of a continuous teacher training system.

Bank support to the government for the implementation of the FTS model has been key to its
institutionalization within the education system. By project closing, there was a wide consensus in the
country that the FTS model is a valid option, and it is institutionalized in the primary education system.
The achievements of the FTS model prove that this institutionalization can be achieved through the support
received, not just at central levels, but at the school level from teachers, principals and inspectors.




                                                      - 21 -

Time spent on tasks as well as improvements in the quality of tasks leads to better learning. Among
the main characteristics of this model being implemented in schools are: (a) the workshop modality, which
allowed teachers to work in pairs, fostering a division of labor among themselves and with children in other
classes.   Teachers had to be more open and lose control; (b) the teachers used more participatory
methodologies when working with other teachers and with the students; and (c) the existence of the "
Colectivo Docente" time: these two hours/week of paid institutional time, that allowed teachers to meet and
discuss and share ideas and problems, beyond purely administrative matters. The full-time school model,
with these elements, showed that it succeeded in providing a pedagogical alternative that added not only
more school time, but also more quality time in school.

Developing and using tools to focus and plan is key to achieve project targets and more efficiently
identify and implement the project activities. The experience of MECAEP II shows that it is important
to develop and use instruments than can support the government and the PCU in better targeting of project
investments, and complement the inputs provided by stakeholders and interested authorities. In the case of
MECAEP II, there were no instruments in place to select the schools to be included in the project
systematically. These instruments were developed during the implementation process (such as the SIG) and
they are being used for planning and decision making in the selection of schools to be included under
MECAEP III. In MECAEP III, the PCU is working to create a list of schools (Banco de escuelas), based
on the instruments established under MECAEP II. Better programming can also help with the matching of
teachers' resources in FTS.

The FTS model is an effective way to improve learning outcomes while addressing equity concerns.
The significantly higher cost of FTS relative to the regular two shift model (a FTS student costs 78 percent
more than a student attending regular school) suggests targeting the model to children from more
disadvantaged contexts.

Importance of continuity of the implementation unit. MECAEP II experience reveals how crucial it is to
have a solid and continuous team for a smooth, timely and coherent project implementation. Professionals
working in the PCU have remained highly committed to the project and have provided invaluable
experience to overcome the difficulties encountered during the project cycle.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
During the preparation of the ICR, the Borrower provided comments to the ICR team on the draft version,
and they were taken into consideration to finalize the report. The Borrower prepared an assessment of the
main achievements and activities of the project that is attached in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

None.




Notes



                                                     - 22 -

[1] At appraisal, the number of children ages 4 and 5 was estimated by the 1996 National Population Census to be 103,000.
Later on, this number was corrected upward by the National Statistics Institute (INE) to 109,200 children for 1996, and
projected to be 110,600 for 1998. Thus, at appraisal, coverage for preschool education, which was estimated to be 82 percent,
was in fact only 76 percent.

[2] In March 1998, a total of 70,560 children ages 4 and 5 (or 68 percent of the population of this age group) in urban areas
were enrolled in public preschools. An additional 15,000 were estimated to be enrolled in private schools. As a result of the
economic crisis that hit Uruguay at mid project life, a number of preschoolers migrated from private to public schools, thus
compounding the difficulties in achieving universal enrollment.

[3] The PAD figure for the national average repetition rate for 1st grade in schools of very disadvantaged contexts was 33
percent, but it did not indicate to which year it referred to.

[4] ANEP approved a resolution on November 12, 1998 establishing the creation of the single­cycle experience in the
kindergartens called JICI (Jardín de Infantes de Ciclo Inicial). MECAEP III captured the Government's commitment to expand
that experience to all full-time schools expanding the single cycle to 1st and 2nd grades by June 30 2005.

[5] The education system had a modality of kindergartens (Jardines Asistenciales) that worked in single shift, which were
denominated from 2003 on, as full time kindergartens ("Jardines de Infantes de Tiempo Completo").

[6] MECAEP I and MECAEP II supported the creation and rehabilitation of 211 classrooms between 1996 and 2003


[7] The Initial Education Program is an open curricular project, whose design involves the contents around three areas:
knowledge of one itself, environmental knowledge and communication.

[8] JICI.- Jardines de Infantes con Ciclo Inicial means:: Kindergarten and the two first years of Primary School in the same
institution. This refers to a pilot experience initiated in 23 kindergartens in Uruguay.




                                                                - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table I - Outcome/impact indicators:

              Indicator                               Target in PAD                     Actual/latest Estimate
                                                           (1998)                               (2004)*
Greater coverage and higher quality       Access to preschool education for the 2002 Data
of the preschool and elementary           remaining 10,700 children of ages 4   - 13,318 additional children ages 4-5
education for children ages 4 to 11,      and 5 in urban areas.                 enrolled in public preschool;
and greater social equity by                                                    - 90 percent of children age 5 enrolled
targeting the socio-economically                                                in preschool (82 percent in 1996);
disadvantaged population.                                                       - 73 percent of children age 4 enrolled
                                                                                in preschool (56 percent in 1996)

                                                                                2004
Increase in the coverage of single shift, Access to full-time schools for 30    Capacity for 30,000 children was made
full time schools, targeted to the        percent (or 33.500) of school-aged    available under the FTS model.
socio-economically disadvantaged          children (age 4 to 11) in             Around 26,900 children are enrolled in
areas.                                    socio-economically disadvantaged      full time schools; approximately
                                          areas.                                23,400 children in FTS primary and
                                                                                3,500 in full time kindergartens
                                                                                2003
Reduction of repetition rates for public National average for all six grades:   National average for all six grades
elementary education.                    From 10.8 percent to 5 percent.        2002:10.3
                                                                                2003: 9.1 percent
                                         National average for 1st grade: from
                                         21.3 percent to 10 percent             National average for 1st grade:
                                                                                2002: 19.2 percent
                                         Very disadvantaged schools for 1st     2003:17.8 percent
                                         grade: from 33 percent to 12 percent.
                                                                                Very disadvantaged schools for 1st
                                                                                grade:
                                                                                2002: 24.4 percent
                                                                                2003: 21.5 percent

                                                                                Results for FTS
                                                                                Average rate for all six grades
                                                                                2003:6.3 percent
                                                                                Average rate for all grades for
                                                                                disadvantaged and very disadvantaged
                                                                                context
                                                                                2003: 5.9 percent (11.5 for regular
                                                                                urban schools)
                                                                                  1999 Test Results
Improvement in the academic                                                       Language:     61.3
achievement test results.                  There were not numeric targets for     Math:       40.8
                                           this indicator.
                                           Baseline 1996 results:                 2002 Test Results
                                           Language:     57.1                     Language:     66.3
                                                      Math:       34.6            Math:       48.3




Table II - Output Indicators

                   Indicator                         End of Project Target in          Actual/Estimated Output



                                                             - 24 -

                                                             PAD
Component 1. Universalization of
Preschool Education
1 Construction of new classrooms for           A total of 200 classrooms       2004
preschool                                      constructed:                    A total of 109 preschool classrooms
                                                                               made available:
                                                                               4 classrooms ­ FAS/FTS
                                                                               19     - Kinder. MECAEP
                                                                               16     - in regular schools
                                                                               30     - in new FTS
                                                                               40     - in FTS transformed
                                                                                        and preexisting.

(2) Provision of Equipment/furniture installed Equipment/furniture for 200     2004
in classrooms                                  classrooms provided :           All 109 preschool classrooms made
                                                                               available under the project have
                                                                               been equipped/furnished.
                                                                               Additionally 53 government-built
                                                                               classrooms were equipped.
3) Sets of teaching/learning materials         A total of 100 sets provided    2004
provided to the new classrooms (one set per    (one set per two classrooms):   75 sets of teaching materials were
two classrooms)                                                                acquired to equip 150 classrooms.

                                                                               150 music boxes for kindergartens (
                                                                               jardines de infantes), except for
                                                                               full-time kindergartens (jardines
                                                                               asistenciales).

                                                                             A total of 29,000 books (libros de
                                                                             cuentos) were bought for those schools
                                                                             with preschool classrooms: they were
                                                                             distributed to Kindergartens, public
                                                                             schools with groups IE, and to rural
                                                                             schools with more than six children in
                                                                             the preschool classroom.
(4) Increased number of teachers through       A total of 400 teachers,      2004
hiring of new graduates, and reassignment and )working ½ time or an          All preschool classrooms have certified
conversion of existing teachers                equivalent of 200 full time   teachers, paid by the Primary
                                               teachers) and 200 teachers'   Education System (ANEP/CEP). A
                                               aides and 100 cleaning staff  total of 200 teachers have been placed
                                               placed in the classrooms by   in preschools.
                                               end-2002.
(5) Improved teacher performance through      New teachers and               2004
training under a new preschool curriculum.    converted/reassigned teachers  A new curriculum was developed and
                                              trained and upgraded for       approximately 1,900 urban and rural
                                              preschool education.           teachers, principals, supervisors were
                                                                             trained (see table III):
                                                                             All Preschool supervisors were trained
                                                                             (27)
                                                                             All Principals in Kindergartens were
                                                                             trained (176)
(6) Improved teacher-parents                   A systematic and frequent     2004
collaboration/participation in the early       method of communication       - Publication of the Preschool
learning process of children.                  regarding the children's      Magazine" Dame una Mano".
                                               developmental status          - Practice of traveling journals
                                               established between teachers  (Cuadernos Viajeros)
                                               and parents in all preschool  - The Study "Síntesis de los
                                               classrooms. .                 Principales Resultados del Estudio de
                                                                             Evaluación de Impacto de la



                                                          - 25 -

                                                                                  Educación Inicial en el Uruguay"
                                                                                  dedicates a full chapter
 Component 2. Expansion of Access to
 Single Shift ­ Full time Schools
 (1)                                              A total of 280 new classrooms  2004
 .Construction of new schools and classrooms      constructed for single shift   A total of 120 new classrooms (11 new
 for the full time schools.                       education, with 8 classrooms   schools) constructed
                                                  per school (2 for preschool, 6 (30 for preschool and 90 for primary)
                                                  for elementary), or 16 per
                                                  school, resulting in 23 new    Two new schools built by the ANEP
                                                  schools.                       program (FAS)
 (2) Conversion of existing schools and           Improvement of the             2004
 classrooms into full time schools. Improvement infrastructure of a total of 25  -30 double shift schools transformed to
 of the infrastructure of existing schools which corresponding schools which arefull time schools
 are converted from double shift to single shift. converted from double shift to -55 pre-existing FTS rehabilitated
                                                  single shift.
 (3) Provision of furniture and equipment for     Classroom furniture and         2004
 full time schools.                               equipment provided to 280 new All classrooms made available and
                                                  classrooms and 120 converted    rehabilitated were furnished and
                                                  classrooms, according to needs. equipped (330 classrooms)
 (4) Provision of teaching materials              Teaching materials provided to 2004
                                                  280 new classrooms and 120      All 330 classrooms made available and
                                                  converted classrooms provided rehabilitated were provided with
                                                  with new teaching materials     teaching materials.

                                                                                  Story books provided to all FTS
                                                                                  schools for classrooms libraries.

                                                                                  Books for teachers libraries provided to
                                                                                  all FTS made available.

                                                                                  Books distributed to the 23
                                                                                  departmental inspections in the
                                                                                  country.
 (5) New pedagogical model for full time          Model implemented in all of the2004
 schools implemented.                               new, converted, and existing 100 percent of the FTS schools created,
                                                           full time schools     transformed or pre existing are
                                                                                 implementing the FTS model
(6)       Increased number of teachers through      A total of 1200 teachers and   2004
reassignment and conversion from other levels       principals for single shift,   2,993 teachers and principals
and improved teacher performance through            full time schools trained and  trained. (include some teachers who
training.                                           placed.                        have taken more than one module)
                                                                                   and all FTS schools made available
                                                                                   have teachers.




                                                              - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2A - Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
     Component            Appraisal   Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                          Estimate      Estimate          Appraisal
  Universalization of      15.40            3.19           20.7
 Preschool Education
Expansion of Access to     23.20           35.03            151
   Full time Schools
 Project Administration     1.40            2.52            180
    and Monitoring
 Total Project Costs       40.00           40.74          101.85



         Table 2.A Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
                                  (US$ million equivalent)

  Expenditure        ICB      NCB           Other       Non-Bank       Total
    Category                                            Financed     (including
                                                                    contingencies
 1. Works
 Classroom            5.0      20.2          0.7           0.0          25.9
 construction        (4.5)    (18.2)        (0.6)         (0.0)        (23.3)
 and
 Rehabilitation
 2. Goods
 School               0.5       0.8          2.0           0.0           3.3
 furniture and       (0.4)    (0.6)         (1.5)         (0.0)         (2.5)
 furniture and
 teaching aids
 3. Services
 Consultants,         0.0       0.0          2.2           0.0           2.2
 studies, training   (0.0)    (0.0)         (2.2)         (0.0)         (2.2)
 and study tours

 4. Recurrent         0.0       0.0          0.0           8.6           8.6
 Costs               (0.0)    (0.0)         (0.0)         (0.0)

      Total           5.5      21.0          4.9           8.6          40.0
                     (4.9)    (18.6)        (4.3)         (0.0)        (28.0)




                                                 - 27 -

           Table 2C - Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                                      (US$ million equivalent)
 Expenditure       ICB         NCB         Other        Non-Bank      Total
   Category                                             Financed   (including
                                                                  contingencies
1. Works
Classroom           0.0       22.35         2.06            0.0        24.42
construction       (0.0)      (19.08)      (1.76)          (0.0)      (20.84)
and
Rehabilitation
2. Goods
School              0.0        2.45         0.31            0.0        2.76
furniture and      (0.0)      (2.00)       (0.16)          (0.0)      (2.16)
furniture and
teaching aids
3. Services
Consultants,        0.0         0.0         4.83            0.0        4.83
studies, training  (0.0)       (0.0)       (4.75)          (0.0)      (4.75)
and study tours

4. Recurrent        0.0         0.0          0.0           8.73        8.73
Costs              (0.0)       (0.0)        (0.0)          (0.0)       (0.0)

     Total          0.0       24.80         7.20           8.73        40.73
                   (0.0)      (21.08)      (6.67)          (0.0)      (27.75)




                                                 - 28 -

Table 2D Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Component                      Appraisal Estimate    Actual/latest estimate  Percentage of
                                                                                Appraisal
                                Bank        GOP       Bank          Gov.     Bank     Gov.
I. Preschool Ed.                10.3         5.1       1.26         1.93     12.2     37.84
1.1 Classroom Construct.         9.6         1.3       0.67         1.85     6.9      142.3
1.2 Classroom Equipment and      0.3         0.1       0.24         0.05     80        50
Learning Materials
1.3 Teacher Training             0.3         0.0       0.32         0.02     106        -
1.4 Studies                      0.1         0.0       0.03         0.00     30          -
1.5 Promotional Campaigns for    0.1         0.0       0.00         0.00      -         -
Families
1.6 Salaries for teachers        0.0         3.7       0.00         0.00
II. Expansion of Access to      16.4         6.8      24.93         10.10    152      148.5
Full time Schools
2.1 Classroom Construct.        15.4         2.0      20.17         1.73    130.9      86.5
2.2 Classroom Equipment and      0.5         2.0       1.99         0.55     374       27.5
Learning Materials
2.3 Teacher Training             0.2         0.0       1.07         0.06     535        -
2.4 Studies                      0.3         0.0       1.82          0.0      -         -
2.5 Promotional Campaigns        0.1         0.0       0.00         0.00      -         -
2.6 Hiring Teachers              0.0         2.8       0.00         1.72      -
                                 0.0         0.0       0.00         6.06      -
III. Project Administration      1.4         0.0       1.56         0.96     111        -
and Monitoring
Total Project Cost              28.00      12.00      27.75         12.98    99.1      108




                                               - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/20/1997                4    Task Manager (1); Educator (1);
                                             Consultants (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/20/1998                8    Task Manager (1);
                                             Consultants (4); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Specialist (1); Program
                                             Assistant (1)
              11/20/1998              12     Task Manager (1); Sector
                                             Leader (1); Education Specialist
                                             (2); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Environmental Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1); Consultant (5)

 Supervision

              05/21/1999                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                     S               S
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATOR (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
              12/07/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FINANCE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SCHOOL ARCHITECT (1)
              06/30/2000               11    ECONOMIST (1);                        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS (2);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             PROJECT MANAGER (1);
                                             EVALUATION (1);
                                             FINANCE/DISBURSEMENTS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (2);
                                             DISBURSEMENTS (1)
              12/12/2000                4    SR. ECONOMIST (1);                    S               S
                                             EDUCATION CONSULTANT
                                             (2); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              10/19/2001                6    SR. ECONOMIST (1);                    S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (4)



                                              - 31 -

               06/07/2002              3    TTL (1); OPERAT.                  S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            EDUC.CONSULTANT (1)
               12/12/2002              7    TTL (1); OPERATIONS               S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                            SPECIALIST (1); OPERAT
                                            ANALYST/ENVIRON (1);
                                            SOCIAL DEV., MANAGER (1);
                                            CIVIL SOCIETY SPEC. (1);
                                            ARCHITECT (1)
               05/21/2003              3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
                                            (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               11/13/2003              3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (2)

 ICR
               06/13/2004             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (2);
                                            FINANCE SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            12.2                           42.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   3.1                          10.9
  Supervision                           59.2                         181.5
  ICR                                     9.8                          38.8
  Total                                 84.3                         273.8




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents

   Project Appraisal Document
   Country Assistance Strategy 1997.
   Statements of mission objectives
   Aide Memoires - 1997-2004 period
   Back to office reports - 1997 -2004 period
   Project Status Reports
   Uruguay ­ Maintaining Social Equity in a Changing Economy. The World Bank. 2001.

Borrower's Documents

1.     "Ahora me toca a Mi:" Uruguay: Educación Inicial para todos. Recopilación de las Principales
       Acciones. MECAEP. ANEP. Banco Mundial. 2003.
2.     "Bilingualism. A Rationale for Introducing a Second Language in the Context of Uruguay Public
       School." Montevideo. October 2000.
3.     "Cálculo de los Niveles de Ingreso según Contexto Socio-Cultural. Una aproximación a partir
       de los datos de la Encuesta Continua de Hogares." Noviembre 2001.
4.     Estimación de las Necesidades de Infraestructura Física. Nivel Primario. Sector urbano. Zona
       Urbana. Diciembre 2000. Luis            Secco/ANEP.
5.     Estudio de los Factores Institucionales y Pedagógicos que inciden en los aprendizajes en las
       escuelas primarias de contextos         desfavorecidos en el Uruguay. ANEP. MECAEP.
       UMRE. 1999.
6.     Estudio de Evaluación de Impacto de la Educación Inicial en el Uruguay. Proyecto MECAEP.
       Noviembre 2001.
7.     Estudio del Lenguaje en los Niños de cuatro años del Uruguay. Proyectos MECAEP. 1999.
8.     Estudio de Evaluación de los Programas de Capacitación en Servicio para Maestros y
       Directores de las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo." CIESU, Proyecto MECAEP. Noviembre
       2001.
9.     Estudio de Evaluación Social de las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo. Proyecto MECAEP.
       Noviembre 2001.
10.    Evaluación Nacional de Aprendizajes en Lengua y Matemáticas 6to año de Enseñanza Primaria
       1999 ­ SEGUNDO INFORME. Proyecto MECAEP. Junio 2000.
11.    Evaluación Nacional de Aprendizajes en 3er. año de Educación Primaria. 1998. UMRE,
       ANEP, MECAEP.
12.    Evaluaciones Nacionales de Aprendizajes en Educación Primaria en el Uruguay 1995-1999.
       ANEP. Proyecto MECAEP-ANEP-BIRF. UMRE.
13.    La Formación de Maestros. Problemas y Posibles Soluciones. Agosto 2001. Dirección de
       Formación y Perfeccionamiento Docente. ANEP.
14.    Informe de Evaluación. Programa de Fortalecimiento del Vínculo Familia, Escuela, Comunidad
       en las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo. Período de Ejecución Octubre 199-30 de Septiembre
       2000. MECAEP.
15.    Programa de Apoyo a las Escuelas de Tiempo Completo. Informe 2000. MECAEP.
16.    "Propuestas para el Uso del Material Didáctico." Ana Mari Cerutti, Graciela Chemelo and
       AlvaroVeira. MECAEP 1996.
17.    Propuestas para el uso de material didáctico. Educación Inicial. ANEP-MECAEP. Junio 1997.
18.    Proyectos en Acción. II Edición. ANEP. 1999.



                                                 - 35 -

19.     Proyecto de Actividades Recreativas y Expresivas en ETC de Montevideo y Zona Metropolitana
        como Espacio de Socialización de Niños en        Situaciones de Pobreza. Instituto de Desarrollo
        Humano/Asociación Cristiana de Jóvenes/MECAEP. Año.
20.     Proyectos de Ciencias Sociales, Lenguaje, Ciencias Naturales en Escuelas de Tiempo Completo.
        MECAEP/ANEP. Abril 2001.
21.     La Repetición en la Escuela Pública en Cifras. Serie Estadística N. 3. Diciembre 2002. Gerencia
        General de Planeamiento y Gestión Educativa. CODICEN.
22.     Síntesis de los Principales Resultados del Estudio de Evaluación de Impacto de la Educación
Inicial en el Uruguay. MECAP. ANEP. Banco Mundial. 2003.




                                                  - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

1. Antecedentes

a.      El Segundo Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación Primaria (MECAEP)
convenido entre el Gobierno Nacional y el BIRF fue aprobado por U$S 40 millones en octubre de 1998. El
mismo tuvo como antecedente inmediato la satisfactoria experiencia verificada por el MECAEP durante la
implantación de su primera fase desarrollada entre 1994 y 2001.

b.      La continuidad que en materia de política educativa caracterizó el accionar de la ANEP durante
los últimos quince años, a lo largo de los cuales se sucedieron tres administraciones diferentes (años 1990 -
1995 - 2000) facilitaron la implantación de una segunda fase: MECAEP - Fase II. Esta fue la continuación
natural de la fase I, ya que retomó sus propósitos generales de mejora de la equidad de la educación
primaria a través de una mayor calidad y formuló dos objetivos específicos que complementaban y
profundizaban los lineamientos del proyecto I: (i) universalizar la educación preescolar para niños de 4 y 5
años y (ii) mejorar la calidad de la educación primaria a través de la adopción del modelo de escuelas de
tiempo completo, concebida ésta como política compensatoria focalizada hacia los niños asistentes a la
educación primaria de 4 a 11 años que asistían a escuelas de contextos desfavorables.

c.      Para dichos componentes se presupuestaron respectivamente U$S 15.4 millones y U$S 23.2
millones, previéndose U$S 1.4 millones para la Administración. La ejecución de los mismos se realizó
durante 18/12/1998 y 31/08/2003, plazo éste que incluye un año de prórroga.

d.      Ambos objetivos estuvieron en total sintonía con las políticas promovidas desde el CODICEN de la
ANEP. El primero de ellos planteó el desafío de completar los logros alcanzados entre 1996 y 1998 en
materia de expansión de la educación inicial, particularmente de los niños localizados en zonas de contexto
socio - económicos adversos; el segundo objetivo tuvo por fin promover el desarrollo de una política
focalizada para reducir la inequidad en la educación primaria, brindando educación de mayor calidad a
33.500 niños provenientes de hogares carenciados. Este objetivo también constituyó un apoyo directo al
planteado por las autoridades de la educación quiénes dieron especial énfasis a esta política a partir del año
1997.



2. Contribución hacia los objetivos de desarrollo del Proyecto

Los objetivos de desarrollo del proyecto fueron cumplidos en un grado significativo en la medida de que:

a.      se incorporó la cantidad prevista de niños de 4 y 5 años a la educación inicial, provenientes en su
mayoría de hogares pobres y se implementaron además las acciones previstas en pos de la mejora de la
calidad de este subsistema; no obstante ello no se alcanzó la univerzalización de la cobertura a pesar que el
esfuerzo fue sostenido, y se realizó en un contexto socio económico muy adverso;

b.      se expandió el modelo de escuelas de tiempo completo en forma focalizada, alcanzándose al 80%
de la cobertura prevista (90% la capacidad prevista), lo que resultó en mejoras visibles en la calidad de la
educación primaria (1º a 6º grado) tal como lo evidencian los valores de los indicadores de outcomes,
especialmente de los resultados de las evaluaciones de aprendizajes y del descenso de las tasas de



                                                     - 37 -

repetición, muy significativa en el subsistema de ETC, aunque más modesta para el conjunto del sistema;

c.       la repetición descendió aunque modestamente en relación a los objetivos planteados, no obstante lo
cual los resultados de los aprendizajes experimentaron un evolución muy positiva.

Los logros a la luz del contexto socio-económico.

Resulta oportuno mencionar que durante el último quinquenio -coincidente con el período de implantación
del Proyecto- el país asistió a una de las peores crisis económica de su historia, y que en dicho período la
cantidad de personas pobres en el país urbano -según datos del Instituto Nacional de Estadística-, más que
se duplicó pasando de 407.9 mil (15.3% del total) en 1999 a 849.5 mil en 2003 (30.9% del total) Por su
parte, los niños de menos de 6 años en tal situación pasaron de representar el 32.5% al 56.5%, y aquellos
de 6 a 12, se incrementaron de 28.3% a 50.2% en el período referido. Las restricciones presupuestales
estuvieron presentes en todas las áreas, aún en la educación, cuyo presupuesto experimentó una reducción
de 5% en 2001 y 29% desde 2002 en adelante. La crisis financiera aparejó además variadas dificultades
derivadas de la cuasi ruptura de la cadena de pagos de la economía.

En este marco más que adverso, es evidente que fueron muchos más los niños en situación de pobreza que
asistieron a las escuelas públicas en relación a los del período previo al año 1999. Por ello los logros del
Proyecto adquieren mayor relevancia en cuanto apoyó la consolidación de los logros anteriores a la crisis
de 1999 y avanzó sobre ellos en forma significativa.

2.1 Universalización de la Educación Inicial para niños de 4 y 5 años.

El Proyecto se planteó expandir la cobertura a través de la incorporación de 10.700 niños de áreas
urbanas y eventualmente a 1.600 de áreas rurales mejorando la equidad y calidad del sistema. Dichos
objetivos se cumplieron en forma satisfactoria. Efectivamente al finalizar el año 2002, se habían
incorporado al sistema público 13.318 niños, 12.636 del área urbana y 682 de la rural.

Considerando los niños de ambas edades el avance hacia la universalización de la cobertura fue de 5 puntos
porcentuales según la Encuesta Continua de Hogares, al pasar de 76% en 1998, frente a 81% en 2002 ; ello
resulta importante sobretodo teniendo en cuenta que el mismo se realizó sobre un punto de partida ya
elevado y los progresos marginales son más difíciles de obtener. Si se realiza una mirada de más largo
plazo tomando como punto de partida el año 1996, cuando comenzó a implementarse la política, el avance
fue de 11%, pasando la cobertura de 70% a 81% para ambos grupos de edad.

La casi totalidad de los niños de áreas urbanas incorporados al sistema desde 1998 provinieron de hogares
ubicados en los estratos socioeconómicos más pobres: el incremento de la cobertura fue de 7% en el quintil
I y 10% en el II, frente a 0% en el IV y 1% en el V. Si bien no existen datos acerca del origen
socioeconómico de los niños provenientes del área rural, las escuelas de esa área pertenecen casi en su
totalidad a los contextos desfavorables, por lo que su incorporación también constituyó un avance hacia la
mejora de la equidad. Desde 1996 a 2002, la cobertura del quintil I y II creció en 18% en cada caso frente
a 3% y 5% del quintil IV y V respectivamente. Se concluye que lo logros en pos de mejorar el nivel de
equidad fueron importantes.

En el nivel de 5 años el 90% (2002) de asistencia alcanzado puede esperarse que sea superado lentamente y
es seguro que contribuya a ello el apoyo legal de la obligatoriedad de la asistencia que rige desde 2003. En
cambio subsiste un bolsón de inasistentes en el nivel de 4 años, ya que la cobertura en esta edad es de 73%,
quienes mayoritariamente pertenecen a hogares pobres. Como ha sido señalado en distintos estudios


                                                    - 38 -

realizados en el Proyecto, la escolarización de este núcleo resulta más difícil debido a múltiples factores: su
menor edad relativa conlleva a una mayor protección de parte de sus padres, la necesidad de protegerlos de
las inclemencias del tiempo invernal, entre otras.




2.2 Mejora de la calidad de la educación primaria a través de la expansión de las escuelas de tiempo
completo (ETC)

a.       La matrícula de ETC y Jardines Asistenciales a febrero de 2003 llegó a 26.900, representando un
80% respecto a lo previsto. El desfasaje se justifica porque: (i) algunas de las 58 ETC existentes antes de
comenzar a implantarse el Proyecto tenían capacidad ociosa debido a que en su origen eran "escuelas al
aire libre" a las que asistían principalmente niños con capacidades diferentes; la oferta de plazas en dichas
escuelas no ha podido ser aún llenada; (ii) dos ETC de las 58 existentes al comenzar a funcionar el
Proyecto pasaron a funcionar bajo el régimen de educación común, lo que significó una leve reducción de la
matrícula; (iii) la situación edilicia de algunas de dichas escuelas era decididamente mala, por lo que el
Proyecto debió invertir más recursos de los previstos en la readecuación de dichos locales, disminuyendo
así las posibilidades de financiar la construcción de ETC nuevas; la readecuación de las ETC pre-existentes
fue una demanda permanentemente realizada por el Sindicato de Maestros y las ATD.

b.       La focalización de la política de expansión de ETC ha sido exitosa. A la fecha de cierre del
Proyecto los niños asistentes a ETC pertenecen en un 73% a contextos desfavorables y muy desfavorables,
el 18% son de contexto medio, el 8% "sin especificar" porque siendo escuelas nuevas aún no se les adjudicó
contexto. Asimismo, el Tercer Censo Nacional de Talla de Niños de Primer Grado Escolar realizado en
2002 sobre los alumnos de primer grado de educación primaria pública ratificó la adecuada focalización de
las ETC, ya que éstas mostraron los peores estándares con un 21.8% de niños de primer grado con retraso
moderado en talla frente a 18.8% de las escuelas urbanas comunes y 13.6% establecido como "Norma" por
la Organización Mundial de la Salud (OMS) y, 5.2% con retraso grave frente a 4% de las escuelas urbanas
comunes y 2.3% de establecido por la OMS.

c.       Los resultados observados en materia de aprendizajes evidencian que la política de expansión de
ETC ha sido exitosa. La evaluación nacional en lenguaje y matemática realizado en 2002 por ANEP,
muestra que entre 1999 y 2002 los porcentajes de suficiencia en las ETC crecieron en forma importante:
(i)      en el "contexto desfavorable" de 58.9% a 71.6% en lengua y de 41.7% a 53.9% en Matemática,
(ii)     en el "contexto muy desfavorable" de 51.4% a 62.9% en lengua y de 32.6% a 49.1% en
matemática.
d.       Considerando la performance de los alumnos de toda la educación primaria de dichos contextos se
observan también mejoras sustanciales:
(i)      en el "contexto desfavorable" los porcentajes de suficiencia pasaron de 51.4% en Lengua a 61%, y
de 27.9% a 39.1% en matemática
(ii)     en el "contexto muy desfavorable" en lengua pasaron de 46.7% a 54.8% en lengua, y de 27.9% a
35.7% en Matemática.

e.       Las tasas de repetición, disminuyeron en forma modesta en el conjunto del sistema, aunque
descendieron significativamente en las ETC:
f.       En todo el sistema:
(i)      la repetición para el promedio nacional de los 6 grados descendió de    10.8% en el año de base a
9.1% en 2003;


                                                       - 39 -

(ii)    el promedio nacional para el primer grado pasó de 21.3% a 17.8% en igual lapso;
(iii)   en escuelas de contexto muy desfavorable la evolución en el primer grado fue de 26.4% a 21.5%.

g.      La disminución lograda en primer grado ha sido relativamente importante a la luz de la estabilidad
que históricamente han mostrado estos valores, pero no alcanzaron el nivel esperado a la hora de formular
el proyecto. Al respecto, a partir de algunos estudios realizados puede señalarse que la evolución temporal
de la repetición resulta algo paradójica en cuanto pone de manifiesto la alta resistencia al cambio que las
estructuras de repetición poseen en Uruguay. Las mismas no acompañan la evolución de dos factores que,
de acuerdo a la evidencia internacional, debieran acompasar de manera consistente a los niveles de
repetición. En otras palabras, resulta llamativo que al tiempo que Uruguay logra un marcado y progresivo
avance en materia de cobertura de Educación Inicial y una mejora sistemática en las mediciones de
rendimiento escolar ( UMRE 1996; UMRE 1999; UMRE 2002), los niveles de repetición permanezcan
estables (Gerencia General de Planeamiento y Gestión Educativa, 2002).
h.      En las ETC en cambio las mejoras han sido sustanciales, ya que las tasas de repetición para los 6
grados han pasado de 14.5% en 1996 a 6.3% en 2003, mientras que en el primer grado la evolución de la
mimas evidencia un descenso de 26.6% en 1996 a 12.4% en 2003.

3. Outputs por componente y subcomponente.

3.1 Universalización de la educación inicial
Construcción de aulas: se previó la construcción de 200 nuevas aulas de educación inicial. El Proyecto
construyó o rehabilitó un total de 105 aulas, más 4 construidas por el Programa FAS; dentro del total
mencionado se computaron las construidas en ETC. A ellas deberían agregarse las construidas por la
propia ANEP, sin embargo no se dispone de dicha información ya que la gerencia respectiva no discrimina
la construcción de aulas según destino (primaria o inicial). En vistas de que la construcción de aulas con
destino a ETC comprendía también la creación de aulas con destino a educación inicial y de que además la
curva demográfica adoptó a partir del año 2001 su fase descendente, quedó en evidencia que la presión de
demanda ya no constituía un cuello de botella para la expansión de la matrícula.

Equipamiento y material didáctico: todas las aulas construidas o reparadas han sido oportunamente
equipadas con el mobiliario escolar (mesas, sillas, etc.) adquiriros por el Proyecto por el equivalente a 162
aulas preescolares; también se han distribuido muebles para aulas de ETC que ya estaban en
funcionamiento y necesitaban ser reemplazadas, tal como está previsto en el Proyecto (licitaciones Nº 33 y
su ampliación del año 1999, Nº 39, Nº 41 y Nº 50).
También las aulas de educación inicial fueron provistas oportunamente de material didáctico adquirido por
el Proyecto (licitaciones Nº 37 del año 1999 y Nº 44 de 2000), el que se adicionó al stock remanente del
Proyecto MECAEP I. Las compras realizadas fueron de 75 sets para equipar a 150 aulas el Proyecto;
además en el año 2001 se adquirieron 29.000 ejemplares de libros de cuentos ya distribuidos (20 títulos)
para fortalecer las bibliotecas de los establecimientos -Jardines de Infantes y escuelas- que contaron con
grupos de educación inicial de 4 y 5 años, tanto rurales como urbanas (Licitación Nº 51/0).

Capacitación: La capacitación en servicio realizada bajo MECAEP I y II cubrió prácticamente a todo el
cuerpo docente de Educación Inicial. Con la puesta en práctica del nuevo currículum de esa área en el año
1998, se tornó imprescindible capacitar en servicio al cuerpo docente en actividad que entonces alcanzaba
a aproximadamente 2.500 docentes, y fue ampliándose paulatinamente hasta llegar a los 3.000 hacia 2002.
Durante la implantación de MECAEP I se capacitó a unos 2.000 personas (Maestros, Directores e
Inspectores) para su actualización en tópicos relevantes de la nueva currícula y durante MECAEP II se
capacitó a 1.500 docentes en los mismos tópicos mencionados. Con ambos módulos se cubrió
prácticamente a todo el plantel docente. Adicionalmente durante MECAEP II se brindó capacitación en


                                                    - 40 -

servicio a 400 personas en la temática relativa a los Jardines de Infantes de Ciclo Inicial. El Proyecto no
previó evaluar los resultados de la misma, y por lo tanto no se realizaron estudios al respecto.

Estudios: se realizaron los siguientes estudios:
a.       "Asistencia de Niños de Cuatro y Cinco años a la Educación Inicial", que en base a una muestra de
escuelas, indaga acerca de las causas del abandono, inasistencia y deserción de los niños (2003).
b.       "Síntesis de los principales resultados del "Estudio de Evaluación de Impacto de la Educación
Inicial en el Uruguay" - Estrategias de Trabajo para Docentes con los Niños y las Familias"(2003), que
procura dar a los padres y docentes elementos prácticos para el trabajo con los niños y hacer más
accesibles a los docentes los hallazgos de investigaciones anteriores realizadas en el marco de MECAEP I y
II.
c.       "Los Niveles de Desempeño al Inicio de la Educación Primaria" - Estudio de las competencias
Lingüísticas y Matemáticas - Evaluación en el Primer Nivel de la Escolaridad - Inicial 5, 1er. y 2do. Año
-Primer Informe" (2003), que apunta a determinar cuáles son los máximos desempeños posibles de los
niños, con el fin de desarrollar políticas que tiendan a elevar la calidad de la educación y ayuden a superar
el problema de la repetición en 1er. Grado.
d.       "Ahora me toca a mí" (2003), que resume los principales logros y acciones del sistema en el área
de la educación inicial desde el año 1996 a 2003, (2003).
e.       "Primer Ciclo en Educación Primaria - Una Experiencia Curricular" (2003), cuyo objetivo fue
brindar a los docentes nuevas miradas sobre el tema de "la continuidad educativa".

Campañas promocionales: no se han realizado campañas promocionales para difundir los beneficios de la
inserción de los niños en el sistema durante la ejecución del Proyecto.
Contratación de maestros: todas las aulas construidas están en funcionamiento por lo que para cada una de
ellas el sistema ha dispuesta la presencia de los maestros requeridos.

3.2 Expansión al acceso de ETC

Construcción de aulas: Los objetivos planteados al inicio fue la construcción de 280 aulas nuevas (entre
25 y 30 escuelas), la transformación de entre 23 y 25 escuelas de educación común a ETC                        y la
rehabilitación de las ETC pre-existentes. El Proyecto construyó 330 aulas nuevas en el conjunto de 98 ETC
que estaban en funcionamiento al momento del cierre del Proyecto. Construyó 11 escuelas nuevas a las que
se agregaron 2 construidas por el FAS, lo que representa en términos de locales un 52% de lo previsto.
Transformó 30 escuelas comunes, logrando el 120% y 130% de lo previsto y reparó el 100% de las
escuelas previstas. En este último caso el monto de las inversiones superaron a las previstas en cuanto el
estado edilicio de muchas de ellas requirió de inversiones relativamente importantes.

Equipamiento y Material Didáctico: Todas las escuelas y aulas en funcionamiento cuentan con el
mobiliario necesario para su correcto funcionamiento, el que fue adquirido oportunamente mediante la
licitación 40/99. Con ellos se equipó a las aulas nuevas y rehabilitadas por el Proyecto y se sustituyó parte
del equipamiento inadecuado de las aulas que ya estaban en funcionamiento.

El material didáctico para ETC fue adquirido en la licitación 40/99 que permitió              abastecer a todas las
escuelas que hoy están funcionando; posteriormente en el año 2000 se adquirieron y distribuyeron sets de
libros para equipar las bibliotecas escolares de todas las ETC que actualmente están en funcionando
(recreativos y con contenido en varias áreas disciplinares) y simultáneamente se efectuó una compra de
libros para las 21 bibliotecas pedagógicas          departamentales y para la biblioteca pedagógica central.

Programa bilingüe: El mismo, iniciado como experiencia piloto, comenzó a funcionar en 2001, y en 2003


                                                      - 41 -

alcanzaba a 26 escuelas en idioma inglés y 2 en portugués (localizadas éstas últimas en la frontera con
Brasil), abarcando un total de casi 1.800 alumnos. Para implementar este subcomponente, el Proyecto
capacitó a 196 maestros en idioma inglés y 9 en portugués, adquirió el material didáctico, libros de texto y
equipos de video y TV para las aulas en las que funciona el programa. La efectividad del mismo será
evaluada en 2004 mediante consultoría externa.




Capacitación y asistencia técnica a escuelas:
Capacitación: Desde que comenzó a funcionar la "nueva propuesta pedagógica" en ETC, el corazón de la
misma lo constituyó la capacitación en servicio impartida por un grupo de experimentados docentes
seleccionados por MECAEP. El Proyecto se plantéo entrenar a 1.200 docentes. Sin embargo el hecho de
que se hayan incorporado nuevos módulos voluntarios a la propuesta inicial, con gran aceptación de parte
de los docentes que ejercen en las ETC, determinó que el total de asistentes de 2.993 a la fecha de cierre del
Proyecto sobrepasara las previsiones. La capacitación consiste en varios cursos: (i) El curso I de carácter
obligatorio para todos los docentes que ejercen en ETC es de 150 hs. anuales que funciona desde 1998 y
aborda las temáticas de gestión y prácticas docentes; el Curso II de carácter voluntario y presencial, que
consiste en talleres, en las áreas de Ciencias Sociales, Ciencias Naturales y Lengua, que funciona desde
1999, (ii) el Curso II Tutorial, voluntario y semipresencial que funciona desde 2002 y (iii) el Curso III de
Matemáticas que funciona desde 2003 y que partir de 2004 se desarrolla en dos niveles (Matemáticas I y
II). Debe resaltarse que la modalidad de trabajo en talleres y proyectos, acompañadas de visitas del equipo
principal para revisar la marcha de los proyectos, de Inspectores de Zona y en ocasiones el Inspector
Departamental, así como también el desarrollo de "Colectivo Docente" -que constituye un espacio de
reflexión e intercambio-, han constituido herramientas sumamente positivas para el éxito de la experiencia.
Los docentes que reciben el entrenamiento reciben una compensación de $300 por jornada a la que asisten
debido a que las mismas se realizan fuera del horario regular de trabajo.

Programa Vínculo escuela-familia-comunidad: fue iniciado en 1999 como experiencia piloto, sobre un
núcleo de 12 ETC asistidas por un grupo de sicólogos y asistentes sociales, con la finalidad de atender las
situaciones problemáticas y de asistir a docentes y padres en pos de alcanzar un mejor clima institucional y
un mejor relacionamiento con el medio en que se inserta la escuela. Luego de 3 años de        funcionamiento
y a partir de una evaluación interna que arrojó resultados positivos, se integraron al Programa 24 escuelas
más, mientras que las primeras 12 a partir de 2002 pasaron a funcionar bajo una modalidad II. Esta
modalidad es menos directa y trabaja mediante proyectos a través de los cuales el equipo de trabajo
mantiene el vínculo con la escuela e intenta sostener la inversión realizada en el trienio previo.

Estudios:
a.      "Proyectos en Lenguaje en ETC"; "Proyectos de Ciencias Naturales en ETC"              y "Proyectos en
Ciencias Sociales en ETC" (2001), que conforman los manuales originados por el trabajo en talleres en
ETC y contienen los principales logros obtenidos en el Curso II.

b.      "Evaluación de Programas de Capacitación para Maestros y Directores de ETC" (2002), que
concluye en que la capacitación en servicio del "nuevo modelo pedagógico" es bien aceptada por los
docentes y ha contribuido a mejorar el grado de aceptación de los docentes acerca de este subcomponente.
c.      Campañas promocionales: No se han realizado campañas específicas en los "medios" para
promover el modelo, ya que la percepción en el sistema es que la demanda supera las posibilidades de la
oferta educativa en estos momentos.
d.      Contratación de maestros: Todas las aulas en las que funcionan ETC cuentan con los docentes
respectivos y directores, y su financiamiento tiene por fuente el presupuesto de ANEP.


                                                    - 42 -

3.3 Administración

En éste componente del Proyecto, los principales desarrollos fueron:

a.       En el área administrativo contable: (i) el Programa GPE incorporó algunas rutinas que permitieron
eliminar procedimientos complementarios realizados por planilla electrónica. de modo tal que ahora se
emiten del sistema los informes con saldos a ejecutar y de pagos pendientes por compra. También el
sistema permite conocer el gasto total realizado para diferentes centros de costos (escuela, inspecciones,
etc). Asimismo se incorporó al GPE un flujo de comunicación por el cual el área de Adquisiciones ingresa
los resultados de cada procedimiento de compra, que son tomados automáticamente por el componente de
finanzas como paso previo a del pago al proveedor adjudicatario.

b.       En el área de programación y monitoreo del Proyecto: (i) se creó el Sistema Georreferenciado de
Información, que facilita la selección de las localizaciones de las escuelas a construir o transformar, ya que
permite visualizar la población con Necesidades Básicas Insatisfechas, la cantidad población en edad
escolar y otros indicadores socio-económicos de un área determinada, así como también las características
de las escuelas que ya funcionan en un determinado entorno. El mismo ha sido de utilidad además para
otras reparticiones del sistema de educación primaria (Censo de Talla Escolar y UMRE, entre otros); (ii) en
temas puntuales de interés para el Proyecto, se elaboraron documentos de trabajo: "Acerca del traslado de
alumnos de la educación privada a la pública (1996 - 2002)" (2003), "Escuelas de Tiempo Completo: una
"performance" alentadora" (2002), "Localización de los niños que no asisten a Educación Inicial" (2003);
(iii) en coordinación con el Programa de Alimentación Escolar de ANEP, elaboró el Tercer Censo Nacional
de Talla en Niños de Primer Grado Escolar - ANEP - MECAEP (2003), (iv) continuó realizando los
informes periódicos para el Banco y otros puntuales para autoridades educativas y Gobierno; (v) apoyó el
proceso de formulación del MECAEP III

c.       En el área del monitoreo de la gestión educativa.
         La UMRE, creada bajo MECAEP I, institucionalizada en ANEP en 2002 (Acta Nº1, Res. 13, del
         15.01.2002) continuó desarrollando para el susbsistema de primaria las evaluaciones de
         aprendizajes: (i) a nivel de 6º grado (Evaluación Nacional de Aprendizajes en Lenguaje y
         Matemática -6º año- Enseñanza Primaria - 2002) y (ii) de niveles cognitivos en el subsistema de
         educación primaria e inicial. Su fructífera actividad y los resultados de su trabajo continúan siendo
         una herramienta fundamental para realizar el seguimiento de las reformas implementadas, así como
         la situación general del sistema educativo. Bajo la "Gerencia General de Planeamiento y Gestión
         Educativa" también funcionan desde 2002, con financiamiento parcial de MECAEP, los
         "Programas de Investigación y Estadística Educativa" y de "Evaluación de la Gestión Educativa".
         Ambos han desarrollado una labor importante en materia de homogeneización de estadísticas,
         apoyo informativo a las escuelas, al CEP y al CODICEN a través de informes sobre temas
         puntuales y al propio MECAEP, para el seguimiento de los estudios contratados por el Proyecto.

3.4. Impacto Institucional

El impacto institucional del Proyecto ha sido significativo: (i) en el área de educación inicial, apoyando por
un lado al sistema educativo para consolidar y expandir los logros del período 1996-1998 y por otro,
facilitando la capacitación en servicio de todo el cuerpo docente del área en cuestión; (ii) en el área relativa
al desarrollo de ETC el Proyecto generó un impacto institucional relevante. Por una parte viabilizó la
aplicación de una nueva "propuesta pedagógica" para las ETC cuyos inicios datan del año 1996 y que se
plasmó finalmente en el Acta Nº 90 del 24.12.1998 del CODICEN. Seguidamente, el CEP creó un "área


                                                     - 43 -

especializada en ETC" (Acta Nº 291, Res. Nº 8, del 23.9.1998) y posteriormente, creó la Inspección
Nacional de Escuelas de Tiempo Completo y Contexto Sociocultural Crítico (Acta Nº 5, Res. Nº 24 del
CEP del 24.2.1999) con su respectivo organigrama; simultáneamente realizó el llamado a concurso de
oposición para todos los cargos de dirección y los cargos vacantes de maestros para su provisión definitiva
(1999); (iii) en el área de monitoreo de la gestión educativa de todo el sistema así como de la evaluación de
aprendizajes que funcionan bajo la órbita de ANEP, el Proyecto contribuyó a dar continuidad a las
actividades de UMRE, financiándolas, y apoyó en el mismo sentido la creación de los otros dos programas
que funcionan bajo la Gerencia de Investigación y Evaluación de ANEP.
4. Principales factores que han afectado la implementación y resultados

4.1 Factores fuera del control del Gobierno o de la Agencia Implementadora.

a.       (i) Sobre finales de 1998 y principios de 1999 la economía uruguaya comienza a recibir los efectos
de la crisis asiática y el efecto contagio sobre las economías emergentes. El fin del "Plan Real" en Brasil en
enero de 1999 sometió a Uruguay y a Argentina a un importante shock negativo que dados determinados
factores internos fue absorbido mediante una profunda fase recesiva en ambas economías. En diciembre de
2001 el abandono del "Plan de Convertibilidad" en Argentina y la crisis generalizada de confianza que ello
provocó constituyó un segundo shock externo de magnitud sobre la economía uruguaya, que además tuvo
un nuevo ingrediente, la crisis de confianza sobre el sistema financiero. A mediados de 2002 se modificó la
política cambiaria y a comienzos de 2003 el gobierno debió renegociar los compromisos del país con los
acreedores externos ("canje de deuda"). Es seguro que la incidencia de esta crisis sobre el deterioro del
nivel de vida de las familias y el aumento más que significativo de la cantidad de niños en situación de
pobreza en el país, acogidos casi en su totalidad por la escuela pública, opacaron los resultados del
Proyecto.
b.       (ii) En un sentido positivo, puede señalarse que la "internalizada" presencia que la escuela pública
tiene en la población uruguaya, contuvo o amortiguó las consecuencias de la crisis. Ello es particularmente
destacable a la hora de evaluar los resultados generales del Proyecto y en particular los del subcomponente
de educación inicial, tanto en materia de cobertura como de repetición.

4.2 Factores generalmente sujetos al control gubernamental.
a.       Favorecieron los resultados del Proyecto, la continuidad de la política aplicada por el Gobierno en
materia de educación y en particular, de las principales líneas de reforma iniciadas en el año 1995 y
profundizas por la presente Administración.
b.       En igual sentido operó el hecho de que el CODICEN y el CEP mantuvieran durante el período en
cuestión una actitud abierta al diálogo con docentes y sindicatos, facilitando su involucramiento con los
objetivos del Proyecto y la mejor comprensión de los mismos.
c.       En un sentido adverso, jugó la reducción del presupuesto en educación. En virtud de la crisis
vigente, los créditos presupuestales para el sector educativo con destino a inversiones se redujeron en 8%
en 2001 y en 8% y 28% para funcionamiento e inversión respectivamente entre 2002 y 2004.

4.3 Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la Agencia Implementadora.
a.       Desde la Coordinación de la UCP se mantuvo permanentemente informadas a las autoridades
nacionales y al Banco respecto de las actividades implementadas y de las dificultades emergentes cuándo
fue oportuno, lo que agilizó la gestión.
b.       Si bien hubieron dos Coordinadores durante la ejecución del Proyecto, en ambos casos se promovió
un permanente contacto entre el equipo central del Proyecto y el resto de los coordinadores y se brindó un
apoyo permanente a las actividades de éstos, desarrolladas en muchos casos en distintos puntos del país. Al
respecto debe señalarse que la labor de la UCP fue en algunos aspectos más compleja que en MECAEP I,
en cuanto al haber sido institucionalizadas algunas actividades creadas bajo aquél Proyecto, las


                                                       - 44 -

coordinaciones debieron realizarse también con los gerentes y mandos medios de ANEP y del CEP.
c.       Se registró la continuidad de buena parte del equipo de profesionales y técnicos de la UCP lo que
dinamizó las tareas de la Unidad así como también el relacionamiento con las autoridades educativas y el
staff de la ANEP.




5        Sustentabilidad

Los factores que favorecen la sustentabilidad del Proyecto son:
a.       La inclusión de un altísimo porcentaje de niños preescolares en el sistema que cuentan con sus
aulas y maestros capacitados, lo que resulta un hecho irreversible.
b.       La clara aceptación que tanto a nivel de los docentes como de la sociedad en general han tenido las
políticas de expansión de la educación inicial, como de tiempo completo. Ello genera un marco de
legitimidad ciudadana que favorece la continuidad de las políticas.
c.       Los alentadores resultados que viene evidenciando la aplicación del modelo de ETC, han
determinado que la experiencia esté siendo observada con atención por diversos actores de la sociedad y al
mismo tiempo difundida.
d.       En el mismo sentido, debe mencionarse que la consolidación de "la cultura de la evaluación"
instituida a través de la UMRE en el cuerpo docente de educación primaria favorece la continuidad de sus
actividades. La utilidad de la labor de esta Unidad, tanto para las autoridades como para la ciudadanía,
actúa en igual sentido.
e.       En las evaluaciones técnicas realizadas -externas e internas al Proyecto-, respecto de las
actividades en él desarrolladas en sus diversas áreas, prevalecen en forma amplia los aspectos positivos de
las mismas lo que legitima las mismas, particularmente entre cuerpo docente de primaria.
f.       El hecho de que todos los docentes, tanto en área de educación inicial como de tiempo completo,
sean actualmente financiados con el presupuesto regular de ANEP, es un aspecto prácticamente
irreversible, y es altamente previsible que dicho gasto se reitere en próximos presupuestos.

Los factores que generan ciertas dudas sobre la sostenibilidad refieran escencialmente a algunos aspectos
de financiamiento, que en términos absolutos no son relevantes dentro del presupuesto general de ANEP y
podrían incluirse en el próximo presupuesto a formularse en 2005. Ellos refieren básicamente a: (i) la
necesidad de dar continuidad a la actividad de capacitación en servicio de los docentes de educación inicial
al menos hasta que el nuevo plan de formación de maestros que se desarrolla bajo MECAEP III esté
vigente y contemple en la carrera regular todos los aspectos necesarios para la puesta al día de los docentes
del área. La capacitación para los docentes de ETC, así como las actividades de la UMRE, continuarán
siendo financiada bajo MECAEP III; (ii) la necesidad de presupuestar las compras del material didáctico a
reponer en el área de educación inicial; (iii) presupuestar el mantenimiento edilicio y de equipamiento.

6. Performance del Banco y del Prestatario

6.1 El Banco
Durante la etapa de estudios previos y de formulación del Proyecto la conformación final del equipo del
Banco experimentó algunos cambios. El actual gerente del Proyecto, se integró al equipo en la etapa de
formulación del mismo y desde entonces a la fecha lo ha estado monitoreando. La continuidad del gerente
ha favorecido la confianza en el equipo central de la UCP así como también fluidez en el diálogo con el
Coordinador del Proyecto.


                                                     - 45 -

El Banco realizó con regularidad dos supervisiones anuales, y el equipo técnico encargado de tales tareas
ha sido generalmente estable, lo que también ha favorecido un intercambio positivo con el grupo de
coordinadores de la UCP como así también con las autoridades de la educación.
El Banco ha sido habitualmente flexible y comprensivo a la hora de corregir los desvíos que se hubieran
observado y de incorporar algunas propuestas no previstas originalmente, como por ejemplo, el Programa
Vínculo-Escuela-Familia-Comunidad, el Progama de Educación Bilingüe y de reprogramar el crédito a la
luz de las evaluaciones realizadas. También estuvo atento y dispuesto a las consultas que se requirieron en
los momentos difíciles por los que atravesó el país a partir de fines de 2001.
Las misiones de supervisión se realizan con un buen grado de rigor, apoyadas previamente en los reportes
de avance de ejecución realizados por la UCP y en términos generales resultaron en recomendaciones y
aportes de ideas positivas que favorecieron la marcha del Proyecto.
También debe valorarse positivamente la difusión que fuera del país ha hecho el Banco respecto de algunas
áreas específicas del Proyecto como son las actividades del sub-componente de capacitación en servicio de
ETC y de la UMRE, así como también generando oportunidades de que el equipo local conociera otras
experiencias de la región. El área de adquisiciones recibió especial apoyo de asistencia técnica, a través de
cursos y talleres presenciales y no presenciales.

7. Lecciones aprendidas.

a.      El MECAEP I dejó una impronta significativa en lo que respecta a los procesos de involucramiento
de los docentes en las actividades a desarrollar, de modo de que ellos se pudieran apropiar de los
desarrollos e innovaciones en curso. De este modo los componentes que se mantuvieron en ambos
Proyectos -educación inicial y las evaluaciones de aprendizajes (UMRE)- aprovecharon dicho aprendizaje,
sosteniendo su muy buena aceptación en todos los niveles del sistema.
b.      El aspecto más novedoso del Proyecto, que fue el componente de ETC actuó sobre bases similares,
ya que desde sus orígenes la "propuesta pedagógica" fue elaborada a través de un proceso de múltiples
consultas con docentes, ATD y técnicos, lo que la dotó desde sus inicios de un alto grado de legitimidad.
c.      El impacto institucional que tuvo el componente de ETC, con la creación del área de ETC y de la
Inspección de ETC en el CEP, prácticamente al mismo tiempo en que comenzaba a implementarse el
modelo, favoreció la concreción de un alto grado de coordinación del componente con el cuerpo de
inspectores y directores, lo que en última instancia contribuyó a facilitar la inserción de la experiencia.
d.      La capacitación en servició con contenidos innovadores en materia pedagógica, -talleres-proyectos,
"colectivo docente"- así como también la inserción de nuevas prácticas -el intercambio de experiencias
entre los docentes de diferentes centros educativos -generó en las propias escuelas un alto índice de
aceptación del modelo. Tal aceptación se constata a través de masiva asistencia de sus respectivos docentes
a los cursos de carácter voluntario. Por otra parte, el producto final de los proyectos, que en diferentes
grados los alumnos vuelcan a la familia y comunidad, ha promovido también el beneplácito de padres y
otros actores. En síntesis, las características de la capacitación en servicio de ETC, demostró ser un factor
no menor para "institucionalizar" la experiencia desde los propios establecimientos.
La cultura de la evaluación, aprendida también del MECAEP I unida al hecho de que de un núcleo central
de técnicos de la UCP continuara trabajando en ambos Proyectos, permitió detectar con prontitud los
desvíos y buscar las soluciones más apropiadas así como también identificar los "éxitos". En tal sentido
pueden mencionarse que: (a) las evaluaciones de aprendizajes unidas al procesamiento de otros indicadores,
permitieron detectar rápidamente que la experiencia de ETC mostraba resultados positivos; (b) el
desarrollo del sistema georreferenciado para la selección de escuelas y zonas adecuadas a los fines del
proyecto, ha mejorado el control de la focalización de ETC, dotando a todos los involucrados - autoridades,
inspectores, docentes y arquitectos- de elementos "objetivos" a la hora de la selección; (c) las evaluaciones
internas del equipo de ETC determinaron correcciones metodológicas en su accionar a la hora definir los
"momentos" en que debían de realizarse las visitas del curso II a las escuelas, así como también la forma de


                                                       - 46 -

devolver los resultados del "colectivo docente".




                                                 - 47 -

- 48 -

