Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4381-UR
Project Agreement
(Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE EDUCACION PUBLICA
Dated October 6, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4381-UR 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE EDUCACION PUBLICA (ANEP). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between República 
Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount equal to twenty-eight million Dollars 
($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that ANEP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ANEP, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to ANEP on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; 
and 
WHEREAS ANEP, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
Page  2
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) ANEP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, educational, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, ANEP shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.  
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project (other than for Parts 
A.11 and B.10 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ANEP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ANEP shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and ANEP, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ANEP on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. ANEP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ANEP shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, suspending, abrogating, assigning, 
terminating or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) ANEP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
ANEP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ANEP of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 2.06. (a) ANEP shall continue to operate and maintain during Project 
implementation the PCU with a structure, functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist ANEP in the 
coordination and implementation of the Project. 
(b)
ANEP shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a Project 
coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 2.07. ANEP shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project indicators set forth in 
the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  3
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about forty-five days after the conclusion of each calendar 
semester, starting in the second semester of 1998, a semi annual report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the semester preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank and the Borrower, by March 31 of each year of 
Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank shall request, starting in 
1999, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ANEP
Section 3.01. ANEP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, educational, engineering and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) ANEP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b)
ANEP shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by said 
auditor of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ANEP 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ANEP thereof. 
Page  4
Section 5.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ANEP:
Consejo Nacional de Educación de la
  Administración Nacional de Educación Pública
Soriano No. 1045
Montevideo, Uruguay 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ANEP may be 
taken or executed by the President of ANEP or such other person or persons as such 
President shall designate in writing, and ANEP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE EDUCACION PUBLICA
Page  5
By /s/ German W. Rama 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each and $3,000,000 equivalent 
or more each, respectively. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract but less 
than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract but less 
than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$20,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
Page  6
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Special Provisions 
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.1 of this 
Section.  The principle and rule of procurement referred to in paragraph 5 below also 
governs all procurement of goods and works under Part B.1 of this Section. 
1.
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award. 
2.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding. 
3.
Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be registered 
with local authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested to 
such bidders is of such nature that it will not discourage their participation. 
4.
There shall be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for 
a contract to be subsequently awarded. 
5.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Uruguayan 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of 
this Section; (b) the first contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 (a) of 
this Section each Project Year; and (c) each contract for works estimated to cost 
$1,000,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Page  7
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and-cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts A.8, A.9, B.6 and B.7 of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants   
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Parts A.5, A.6, A.10, B.5 and B.9 of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$500,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the Project (other than for Parts A.5, A.6, A.8, A.9, A.10, B.5, 
B.6, B.7 and B.9 of the Project) shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Section or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all selection of consultants' services referred to 
in this Section. 
1.
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted. 
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (legalizar) their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Uruguayan authorities as 
a prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the short list and the terms 
of reference for the particular assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  8
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the qualifications 
and experience of the consultants and the terms of reference for the particular 
assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
