Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4381-UR
Loan Agreement
(Second Basic Education Quality Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 6, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4381-UR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1998, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of Parts A.1 through A.10, B.1 through B.9 and C of 
the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by ANEP with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ANEP the proceeds 
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ANEP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ANEP” means the National Administration of Public Education 
(Administración Nacional de Educación Pública) established pursuant to Law. No. 15.739 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“Elementary Education” means first through sixth grade (Educación Común) 
in the Borrower’s education system;  
(c) 
“Elementary School” means a public school which provides Elementary 
Education;  
(d)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower and ANEP to the Bank setting forth the Project indicators, as such letter may 
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(e)
“Law No. 15.739” means Ley No. 15.739 of the Borrower dated March 28, 
1985, published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on April 25, 1985, which 
established, inter alia, ANEP, as such law has been amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means ANEP’ s manual which sets forth, inter alia: 
(i) the list of Preschools referred to in Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the criteria 
mentioned in Part A.6 of the Project; (iii) the list of  Preschools and Elementary 
Schools referred to in Part B.1 of the Project; (iv) the criteria referred to in Parts 
B.2, B.3 and B.8 of the Project; and (v) the disbursement and procurement plans to be 
followed by ANEP under the Project; 
(g)
“PCU” means the project coordination unit established in ANEP pursuant to 
ANEP’s  Resolution No. 57 and referred to in Section 2.06 (a) of the Project 
Agreement; 
(h)
“Preschool” means a public school which provides Preschool Education; 
(i)
“Preschool Education” means the education which is provided to four and 
five year old children in accordance with the Borrower’s education system;  
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and ANEP of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Project Year” means the twelve month period starting on the date of this 
Agreement; 
(l)
“ Resolution No. 57” means ANEP’s  resolution dated February 2, 1994 
which established the PCU;  
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(n)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and ANEP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-eight million Dollars ($28,000,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project (other than for Parts A.11 and B.10 of the 
Project) described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London  
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
Page  4
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. The President of ANEP (or such other person or persons as such 
President shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement 
shall cause ANEP to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement, all the obligations of ANEP therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ANEP to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis,  the proceeds of the Loan 
to ANEP under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ANEP, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank (the Subsidiary 
Agreement).
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, terminate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project (other than for Parts 
A.11 and B.10 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by ANEP pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the annual reviews referred to 
in Section 2.07 (c) of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that ANEP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
that as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ANEP will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(c)
that Law No. 15.739 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ANEP to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
that any of the events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ANEP; 
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been approved by ANEP and the Bank; and  
(c)
that ANEP has amended Resolution No. 57 in order to allow the continued 
operation of the PCU as provided in Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ANEP, 
and is legally binding upon ANEP in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and ANEP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ANEP in accordance with 
its terms. Section 6.03. The date January 5, 1999, is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia No. 1089
Montevideo, Uruguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By /s/ Luis A. Mosca 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Page  7
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
  (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Parts A.1,
 18,000,000
)
B.1, B.2 and B.3
)
of the Project
)
)
90%
(b) under Part A.2
  4,200,000
)
of the Project
)
(2)
Goods
(a) other than under
  2,100,000
)
Part A.4 of the
)
Project
)
)
80%
(b) under Part A.4
    500,000
)
of the Project
(3)
Consultants' Services
  1,800,000
(4)
Training
    200,000
(5)
Unallocated
  1,200,000
TOTAL
 28,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Training” means expenditures (other 
than for consultants’ services) incurred by ANEP in the carrying out of the training 
activities under the Project, including, inter alia, the per-diem and travel cost of 
the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless ANEP has furnished to the 
Bank the strategy referred to in Part A.8 (b) of the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than $250,000 equivalent with the exception of the first contract for 
goods to be awarded each Project Year under Part C.1 (a) of Section I of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement; (b) contract for works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) Training, as set forth in Category 
(4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand the coverage and improve the 
quality of Preschool Education and Elementary Education; and (b) achieve greater 
social equity by targeting the expansion of the new pedagogical single-shift 
(full-time) model of teaching within Preschool Education and Elementary Education to 
socio-economically disadvantaged households.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Preschool Education  
1.
Construction of about 47 classrooms in those Preschools listed in the 
Operational Manual to provide access to Preschool Education for children from 
socio-economic disadvantaged families who are on the waiting list to be assigned a 
Preschool. 
2.
Construction of about 153 classrooms in those Preschools to be selected by ANEP 
in accordance with the strategy referred to in Part A.8 (b) of the Project to provide 
access to Preschool Education for children from socio-economic disadvantaged families 
who are currently not enrolled in a Preschool. 
3.
(a)
Acquisition and utilization of school equipment (including a set of 
exterior playground equipment) and furniture; and (b) acquisition and distribution of 
learning materials (including, inter alia, books and workshop materials) for the 
Preschools referred to in Part A.1 above. 
4.
(a)
Acquisition and utilization of school equipment (including a set of 
exterior playground equipment) and furniture; and (b) acquisition and distribution of 
learning materials (including, inter alia, books and workshop materials) for the 
Preschools referred to in Part A.2 above.
5.
Carrying out of an in-service teacher training program for all Preschool 
teachers on the subjects included in the new curriculum for Preschool Education. 
6.
Carrying out of a training program to address the high repetition rates of first 
graders in Elementary Education for teachers and principals of Preschools and for 
first and second grade teachers and principals of  Elementary Schools to be selected 
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual. 
7.
Design and implementation of a strategy for adopting a new concept of “first 
cycle of school” for the benefit of four to seven year old children.
8.
Carrying out of a study of those parents or families who have not enrolled their 
children in Preschools in order to: (a) determine the basis for such decision; and (b) 
design a strategy (based on the recommendations of such study) which will enable ANEP 
to select the Preschools referred to in Part A.2 of the Project. 
9.
Carrying out of an evaluation study to measure the impact of Preschool Education 
with respect to the academic performance of first through third grade students of 
Elementary Education. 
10.
Carrying out of a campaign to motivate parents or families to enroll their 
children in a Preschool, including the acquisition and utilization of the necessary 
promotional materials. 
11.
Hiring of teachers for the Preschools referred to in Parts A.1 and A.2 of the 
Project.
Part B:
Single-Shift (full-time) Model Schools  
1.
Improvement and/or expansion of the infrastructure of all existing Preschools 
and Elementary Schools which have adopted the new pedagogical single-shift (full-time) 
model of teaching and which are listed in the Operational Manual. 
Page  9
2.
Improvement and/or expansion of the infrastructure of those existing Preschools 
and Elementary Schools to be selected by ANEP (in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual) to adopt the new pedagogical single-shift (full time) 
model of teaching. 
3.
Construction of about 30 Preschools and Elementary Schools which will adopt the 
new pedagogical single-shift (full-time) model of teaching in those geographical areas 
to be selected by ANEP in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
4.
(a)
Acquisition and utilization of school equipment (including a set of 
exterior playground equipment) and furniture; (b) acquisition and distribution of 
learning materials (including, inter alia, books, workshop materials and computer 
hardware and software equipment); and (c) acquisition and distribution of kitchen 
equipment, for the Preschools (other than those included in Parts A.3 and A.4 of the 
Project) and Elementary Schools referred to in Parts B.1 through B.3 above.
5.
Design and implementation of a training program on the new pedagogical 
single-shift (full-time) model of teaching for the personnel of those Preschools and 
Elementary Schools which have adopted such model of teaching. 
6.
Carrying out of a study on the perception of teachers and families of the 
students attending Preschools and Elementary Schools which have adopted the new 
pedagogical single-shift (full-time) model of teaching. 
7.
Carrying out of an impact evaluation study on the students attending Preschools 
and Elementary Schools which have adopted the new pedagogical single-shift (full-time) 
model of teaching. 
8.
Carrying out of a case study of eight Preschools and Elementary Schools (to be 
selected by ANEP in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual) 
which have adopted the new pedagogical single-shift (full-time) model of teaching to 
determine the factors which contributed to a positive or a negative result, as the 
case may be.
9.
Carrying out of promotional campaigns concerning the contents of the new 
pedagogical single-shift (full-time) model of teaching in: (a) those communities to be 
selected by ANEP in which there are no existing Preschools and Elementary Schools; and 
(b) those communities in which existing Preschools and Elementary Schools have been 
selected by ANEP to adopt such model of teaching the following academic year. 
10.
Hiring of teachers for the Preschools and Elementary Schools referred to in Part 
B.3 above.
Part C:
Project Administration
 
1.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of ANEP to carry out the Project and 
to monitor the ongoing education reform program. 
2.
Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system, including the 
provision of training and the acquisition and utilization of goods. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance to ANEP to improve its financial management 
system. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in Dollars)*
September 15, 2002
  870,000
Page  10
September 15, 2003
  920,000
September 15, 2004
  975,000
September 15, 2005
1,035,000
September 15, 2006
1,095,000
September 15, 2007
1,160,000
September 15, 2008
1,230,000
September 15, 2009
1,305,000
September 15, 2010
1,380,000
September 15, 2011
1,465,000
September 15, 2012
1,550,000
September 15, 2013
________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project (other than for Parts 
A.11 and B.10 of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,800,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for the Project (other than for Parts A.11 and B.10 of 
the Project) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equal to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed an amount equal to $4,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
Page  11
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project (other than for Parts A.11 and B.10 of the Project), shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  12
